ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Education and Vocational Education Act and a number of other laws related to various measures aimed at strengthening the position of MBO students, the Law strengthening position MBO students, with the number 35252. I would like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Smalls for his maiden speech. He is speaking on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand it's customary not to interrupt during a maiden speech. To be honest, I would like to begin by saying that I regret that, because what I liked most about the Delft Council was precisely the interruptions. I am convinced that the decision-making process will improve through dialogue and debate. I would therefore like to invite the Chamber to look up the debate with me in the coming time and at the following moments. We are here today for the bill of law strengthening position MBO students. This is an important moment for me. I stand here with a great sense of pride and modest joy, because I am allowed to stand here in this venerable and historic place in the heart of Dutch democracy and to contribute to the governance of the Netherlands. My humble joy stems from the fact that my father and mother are unfortunately no longer able to experience this. They have played an important role in the process that has led me to stand here now. My parents raised me and our family with the idea that our way of life here in the Netherlands is not self-evident and that we should not accept our achievements for notification. My mother was once politically active in Veldhoven for the KVP, which is now the CDA. She would have been very proud, but also very curious about my work here in the Chamber. My father also inspired me to become politically active. Mr. Chairman. This year we celebrate 75 years of liberation and the restoration of parliamentary democracy in the Netherlands. With many people who have experienced the war and occupation, this has left deep traces. My father was born in 1930 and lived in Vlissingen during the war. Like many people from that time, he did not tell at a later age how he experienced the war. He lived on the Badhuisweg in Vlissingen. For the connoisseurs: near the Lion Stairs. Vlissingen was heavily bombed by the Allies at the end of 1944 to expel the Germans. As a 14-year-old boy, my father and his brothers and sisters were forced to flee to a nearby village. Coldrick or Biggekerke; I don't remember. Of course, it had to be on foot. Where my grandfather and grandmother were at that time, I don't know; that doesn't tell the story. The flight was so sudden that when my father came back after a few weeks, the plates were still on the table and they were covered with long fungal hairs. That had made a deep impression on him and later, through his stories, also on me. That was undoubtedly one of the reasons for my father to start at the KMA in Breda. Of course he thought it was tough to become a soldier, but above all he wanted to avoid the horrors he had seen in the war. The more painful it was that in the sixties, in the time of the provos, the flowerpower and so on, he was asked how on earth he had made his profession of shooting people. Such a question, while he wanted to work with soul and salvation in order to protect the redheads, who are his words, and to offer everyone freedom and security. The attitude of many of my father at the time, I still see in our society, and I am concerned about that. I am talking about the ease and the self-evidentness with which we now, perhaps much more than then, adopt achievements such as prosperity, peace, freedom and security for notification. We must cherish these achievements. Most people on Earth don't have the luxury of living in freedom as we know it here. If you want to keep that, you have to invest in it and fight for it, just like my father wanted you to. This applies not only to peace and security, but also to current prosperity and prosperity. The prosperity and prosperity in which we now live gives us the space and opportunity to take measures that are good for the environment, peace and security. But we must prevent the same measures from allowing prosperity to melt again. The risk is enormous that, over time, we will no longer have the space in terms of money and time to actually solve the problems in our society. That would be a shame. A very different, more personal motivation to stand here is what I have fulfilled my life with over the last twenty years. I'm a proud pharmacist. I had a pharmacy, which is now remote. As a pharmacist, entrepreneur, employer, I've noticed that the more you give people freedom and responsibility in their work, the easier it is for you as a supervisor. And not that it was my goal to have it easy. No, it was precisely my goal to make everyone happy as much as possible, of course within the limits. The proof that that approach was the right one was given to me when I didn't have absenteeism for a year. Fifteen people employed and no one sick all year. The absence was zero. Even the fail-safe didn't believe it. But what I'm really proud of is that one of my assistants, trained as an MBO, is now in charge of the pharmacy. She is living proof that when you give people the space to develop and develop themselves, people can do things they may not have expected from themselves. That is, of course, exciting and that goes with falling and getting up, but I see that it is very satisfying. I also find it exciting to let go of that pharmacy myself. I've got that pharmacy longer than my kids, for Christ's sake. But as an entrepreneur, and certainly as an entrepreneur in healthcare, you are confronted with policies from The Hague every day. The way of the least resistance would be to shout along the sidelines what is not right and not right, but I did not choose for that. And if you listen carefully, for example, to the discontent in care, but today in this place in this context perhaps even more logical the discontent in education, it is very often about professional autonomy, about appreciation, about directing the profession, about less rules. No one is against less rules, but realizing that remains a very difficult task. I also see us here in the Lower House as a bit like executives. After all, we have an important role to play in determining how the Netherlands should function. My guide and compass will always be: to give people as much space as possible to set up their own lives; to give people responsibility and freedom. Then the Law strengthen position MBO students. I told you before that I'm very content with my wallet. Over the past 20 years, I've worked intensively with MBOs. That's why I know more than anyone what students can come from the MBO. That is much more and much more than is sometimes thought or thought by society. Lately, the paper has been full of successful MBOs. In fact, recently I had to ask the Minister about the approach to green picking, a phenomenon that MBO students were so popular that they were picked by companies even before they graduated from school. The fact that we decide to call "Mbo'ers" "students" from now on is an important symbolic step in a changing view of the Mbo's. Honestly, I don't really care. I'm proud of the MBO student regardless of the name. But now, as a political but certainly also as a society, it is up to us to take action and express that appreciation. The second important point in this law is the establishment of the MBO student fund. The VVD sees the benefits of a fund, which has the same effect as the profiling fund in higher education. It's about getting as many students as possible to the finish line of their MBO diploma. If there are good reasons to delay our studies, we can give these students an extra boost. However, the VVD is concerned about a number of elements of this law. Firstly, there are signs that institutions have set up the temporary provision of teaching materials quite differently. There are significant regional differences in terms of the amount paid, the demand for the scheme and the way in which the scheme is implemented. If the claims are legally anchored, this may mean that some institutions have more recourse to the fund than there are resources. Claims could then be made to the detriment of the quality of education. If it turns out so, is the Minister prepared to intervene early and, if so, how would she do that? Secondly, I foresee problems on the implementing and administrative side of this bill, in particular with regard to the automatic issue of an MBO declaration. From rocks I hear several stories that the deadline for ICT systems to be ready is not feasible. Does the Minister see this problem? In what way can the Minister respond to the roc's which already indicate that they will not be able to implement the measures resulting from this law before the next school year? It is nice that the evaluation of the MBO fund is coming very soon, but can the Minister promise that it will also include in the evaluation whether the chosen financial system of the lumpsum is the best option? Thirdly, I insist that the MBO declaration should not become an alternative to a genuine diploma. Green picking is an increasing problem. I understand that students want something tangible from what they have accomplished when they leave school sooner than expected. But with that, there can also be a wrong incentive for the MBO declaration. For example, schools may be able to get their difficult students to drop out of school sooner, or it may be easier for companies to persuade students to drop out on those few general-form subjects. Of course, that cannot be the intention. Mbo students have a view of a nice degree. Unlike an MBO statement, that's a starting qualification they can really do something with. That is why I absolutely want the MBO statement to be evaluated quickly, particularly with regard to whether the MBO declaration does not increase the green picking and whether it is not deflation of the real MBO diploma. Is the Minister prepared to monitor the MBO's statement annually and inform the Chamber about this? Can and will the Minister undertake to do so so, so that we can act quickly if this MBO declaration does not lead to an increase in the green picking or a devaluation of the real MBO diploma? Finally. For some time now, the Chamber has expressed the wish that we should not unnecessarily burden MBO students with costs for school materials that are not even used. Then, on the one hand, we help the MBO student out of a minimal family with a contribution from the fund, but on the other hand, there is the chance that the same student will have to spend this money on stuff he doesn't need to attend the programme. That's the reverse world for me. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what is the state of play on the issue of school materials that are not being used. Does the Minister see any improvement on the last time we asked for this from the Chamber? What guarantee can the Chamber have that it will be taken care of now? Will the Minister ensure that next school year MBO students are no longer saddled with unused, expensive teaching materials? In order to take an advance on that last question, I tabled an amendment, together with colleagues Kwint, Kuik and Van den Berge, with which the Minister will be given an instrument by means of an AMvB to have the teaching materials bought back by roc's, should it not be possible to make administrative arrangements. To sum up, I think this is a law with which we can give some students the push we need to help them get to the finish line of an MBO programme. I'm very happy about that. I think no, I'm sure that graduate MBOs will have a fantastic future, especially since the Netherlands needs them hard in the years to come. Mr President, this brings me to the end of my first plenary contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Smalls. I'm suspending the sitting for a few moments so you can be congratulated. I'd like to take the opportunity to do that myself first. You can do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u5	I would like to give the floor to Mr Van den Berge, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating and congratulating Mr Smalls. It was a beautiful, personal and passionate story. I've known colleague Smals for a while. We have had the honour of working together as rapporteurs for the Education budget, so I already know him as a collegiate MP. He's a fine person with heart for the MBO, too. So I think he is an asset in this portfolio and in these debates. Of course it remains a VVD, so in that sense he doesn't have to worry about a lack of interruptions. Next time, I'll be there. But at least compliments for this maiden speech today. Mr. Chairman. In 2018, the Innovation Expo took place in Rotterdam. Between all Dutch gems of innovation, De Veijver was also presented. I hope I pronounce "Veijver" well on his Hagues, because I'm just an import haagenaar myself. I think the Minister could do better. De Vijver is an innovative water collection that can anticipate weather forecasts using software. This smart system can ensure more efficient water management in urban areas and prevent flooding. I have been told that during the exhibition it was going to ask curious questions: "What students have developed this innovation, this smart water management system de Veijver, right? Are they TU students in Delft? Are they perhaps students from Wageningen University?" And what's pale? I can see the minister nodding; maybe she knows. They were four students of ROC Mondrian: Nils, Alex, Jurriaan and Jelle. This example shows me why I start my input with what MBO students are able to do and what an innovative power there is in the MBO. I think we should pay more attention to that, Mr Smals, and we should be more grateful for the MBO. We must get rid of the underestimation that has often been done in the past. These kinds of examples show what MBO students are capable of. Friday night I'm going to the award ceremony of Skills Heroes in Leeuwarden. I am looking forward to that as well, because: innovation, inspiration and beautiful ideas are guaranteed. Mr. Chairman. Appreciate it. I've already said it. Over the past few months I have visited several MBO institutions in Goes, Nieuwegein, The Hague and Amsterdam. Soon I'm going to Den Bosch. I spoke with many students and teachers about what we can do as politicians and as Second Chambers to strengthen the quality of the MBO and to strengthen the position of teachers and students in the MBO. There was one word that came back every time: appreciation. Mbo students want to see the appreciation they deserve. They don't think they're getting enough at the moment. Unfortunately, I think this is still true a lot. They want to appreciate their commitment to care, to the police, to the hairdressing salon and to all the other places in society where they do very important work. GroenLinks has great appreciation for the MBO student. Let me say that again here. I say it in every debate on the MBO, but let me say it again, because it is such an important message. Which brings me to the bill. We are positive about the bill before us today. With this bill, we are taking important steps to strengthen the position of the MBO student and ensure that the student receives the appreciation he or she deserves. GroenLinks has been advocating for some time that the big ones in the MBO should be called students instead of participants. We are pleased to see that the Minister now also regulates this in this bill. Thank you very much for that. We also welcome the fact that there will be an MBO student fund, Mr Smals, which is similar to the higher education profiling fund, from which support can be provided to young people from minimal families, but which can also further strengthen control in the MBO. I will come back to this later, because I have a number of proposals to take another step. It is a good thing that this bill provides for legislation on maternity leave for MBO students. It is also a good thing that we have an MBO certificate that allows students who do not complete the entire programme to get recognition for what they have done. I also share the legitimate concerns of Mr Smals. We must, of course, avoid such a statement leading to more early school leaving and more green picking. I share these concerns, but we welcome the idea that we are going to give students recognition and appreciation for what they have done, rather than just looking at what they have not done and saying: you have not finished it completely, so you will not get a diploma. Good steps, therefore, for which I congratulate the Minister. But as far as we're concerned, it could be even better. That is why we are going to make a number of proposals. Let me start with internship discrimination. In every debate on the MBO, I am not just asking for attention to be paid to this, because several colleagues do so repeatedly, because this is still a persistent problem. I also see that it is a problem that this Minister is keen to address. I don't think there's a difference of opinion there. But I think we're all struggling with the question of how we can solve this multi-headed monster, this persistent problem. Earlier, the Minister himself wrote in a letter to the Chamber that there are few reports coming to the official hotlines that exist at the moment. I have recently asked many students how this happened, including students who are victims of internship discrimination. They indicate that the hotlines currently available, for example at SBB, are too remote from the student himself. These are physical counters that are far away from education and the actual internship place. As a result, it is high-threshold to report there. Students also indicate that they don't know if anything happens to them when they report: does it make sense to report? Recently we posted a call from GroenLinks on social media. Within no-time, eighteen personal stories of students who have had to deal with internship discrimination came in. I would like to mention a number of them. I promised these people I wouldn't use their real names for privacy reasons, but their stories are lifelike. Munira was told in a nursing home that only foreigners are hired in the cleaning. Leila had a job interview at a youth care facility. She was told that her faith was difficult after all. She's Moslima. She indicated that her 30-minute conversation ended 20 minutes about her faith and 10 minutes about her competences. Romana was told on her internship interview: if I were you, I'd put a picture on your resume next time, because at least we'll know who we're inviting to talk to. They're tough stories. These are three from a list of eighteen, which we received in a very short time. That shows us that this is just the tip of the iceberg and that we really need to do more to get an idea of how internship discrimination takes place, how much it takes place and, above all, what we can do about it. I am not going to list all the studies which also justify this quantitatively and empirically, because the Minister knows them. She knows that internship discrimination is a persistent problem. But I'm gonna make you a deal. Before I do that, I would like to go back to the budgetary treatment of the Education, Culture and Science budget. We then made the proposal to create diversity coaches that can help students find a suitable internship. They can also help students with advice when they face internship discrimination. The Minister then indicated that she would discuss the introduction of the diversity coaches with SBB, MBO Council, JOB and the Human Rights College. I'd like to ask her to give an update later. What's going on with that right now? Previously, we have also proposed in debates to use SZW mysterycalls and mysteryguests to detect and tackle internship discrimination. I understand that the Minister has now discussed this with the Secretary of State of SZW. At this point too, I would like to hear an update later. How are we doing? Are there experiments now? What can we expect from that? Then there is the point I mentioned earlier, namely the fact that there are so few reports coming into the existing hotlines and that they are still so high-threshold. I would therefore like today to propose to the Minister that we work with students to see if we can develop an app that builds on the experience of the existing hotlines. That app needs to be low-threshold, so students can easily report it. Then there can be an investigation into whether there is actual discrimination. I can imagine anything, for example, that you would like to give tips in such an app. How do you find an internship, for example? How do you do that? How do you write a good letter? I don't want to fill it out too much from here. My request to the Minister would be to talk to students, to JOB and to individual students, because they know best what is needed to tackle this problem. And then see if we can get to such a low-threshold hotline, such an app. I would like to hear the Minister's reaction to this later. Mr President, there is another point: internship fees. When we talk about appreciation and recognition, of course we are also talking about internship fees, because this is such an important part of students' education in the MBO. Now that things are going well economically, employers are lining up for good MBO students. Mr Smalls mentioned the green picking. We hear from students that there are many learning-work companies that invest in students. Those companies give their time, space and an appropriate internship fee. So let me start by saying that a lot of learning-working companies are just doing well. But there are also learning-work companies that can get rid of it easily. Last week I received an internship contract from a student in a healthcare institution that literally said: you do not get an internship fee, but you can have lunch for free. For someone who works four days in the week of the morning until late at night to provide good care, I find a cheese sandwich and a glass of milk as a reward very lean. You should at least ensure that students' expenses are reimbursed and, of course, a little more. That is why I have tabled an amendment asking learners to define what they mean by an appropriate internship fee and to ensure that SBB can then continue to do so when companies fail to comply with the agreed internship fee. Finally, perhaps, there are sectors where the collective agreements already provide for minimum training fees. That shows it's possible. But not all companies have yet complied with that. Hence this amendment and my question to the Minister. I'm moving on to the point of control. I also see Mr Smalls, but it is up to you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u7	When I ask for a lot of interruptions, of course, I have to do the same myself. Does Mr. Van den Berge agree with me that internship is fundamentally different from an employment relationship? Salary is also fundamentally different from an internship fee. Doesn't this also mean that it's very difficult to attach a minimum to that, as opposed to a normal employment relationship? And then my second question. If a collective agreement has been declared universally binding and an employer does not comply with it, is it not the case that we simply have to maintain it? So I don't think that's a good example at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u8	Well, first of all, if I were to switch an internship place completely equal to a job, I would have suggested that the minimum wage should apply to internships. So, of course, I can see that an internship isn't the same as a job. It is a first step in the labour market for MBO students, and that is what we consider appropriate. We see that collective agreements are now sometimes agreed on minimum-stage fees; so not in all sectors, but there are sectors where this is true. Only that is not sufficiently enforced. Colleague Smalls says "you must maintain that," but yes, who is going to do that and how are you going to do that? Those are exactly the two things that we are dealing with in this amendment. One: we ask learners to record what they mean by a "stage fee." And B: we give the SBB an opportunity to maintain it. So I think I'm going to meet Mr Smalls very far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u9	I have one more question. Okay, let's say we're gonna make that kind of deal. Aren't you afraid, Mr Van den Berge, that by imposing additional thresholds for internship companies, the number of internships is also falling? Then we'll put the whole horse behind the cart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u10	No, I am not afraid of that, just because in the amendment we leave room for learning-working companies to fill it out themselves and to look at what is appropriate for that particular sector and for that particular organisation. I would see that risk if I were here from The Hague to suck an x-value out of my mind and put it in the law, but I deliberately do not. I choose to leave room for customization. This can also be used when there would be unwanted effects. If, by the way, I follow Mr Smals' reasoning, and I hope he does not think so, then you could also reason: if we abolish the minimum wage, more jobs will automatically be created. Probably that's true, only that's a price I wouldn't want to pay. We do need certain social boundaries in this country, in our economy, in the welfare state. As far as we are concerned, this also applies to the recognition we give to MBO students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u11	Mr. Smalls, the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u12	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The easy answer is of course: that is not my portfolio; minimum wage, we are not going to talk about that, because we are talking about internships here. But is it also possible in your proposal that the internship fee is zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u13	Well, zero seems very strong to me, because I already indicated that at least the expenses would be reimbursed, and preferably more. I'd rather move on myself. Anyway, I can count too, and I want to get a majority for this proposal, so I've already formulated it a little more nuanced than I might want in my heart. Zero seems very strong to me, doesn't he? If you mean "can it be zero on top of expenses?', Then it could be in theory. If you ask me if that is desirable, I would not think it desirable. Anyway, I want this proposal to work; that is why I formulated it as I put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u14	Proceed, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u15	Thank you. I'm going to control. When we talk about the position and strengthening of the position of MBO students, it is crucial that we also put away a full role for students in decision-making councils. This bill also does so, by making it possible to pay fees to members of student councils from the MBO student fund. Only what I have noticed recently in conversations with students and also with members of student councils is that these fees vary considerably from institution to institution. Of course, there may be good reasons for this in some cases, but it may also lead to the payment of such a low level of control fee in certain institutions that it is impossible for a 16 or 17-year-old to choose between a full-fledged role in control or a side job. That is why GroenLinks would like us to settle in the law, and I have also tabled an amendment to that effect, which allows the Minister to lay down a minimum fee, with the emphasis on "can'... for members of student councils, to ensure that everyone, every MBO student, has the real option of choosing to become active in a student council. I deliberately say "can," because I'm not making legislation if that's not necessary. Look, if it turns out that in practice all this is just going to work well, and that institutions take their own responsibility and pay appropriate remuneration to members of student councils, then the minister doesn't have to do it. But with this amendment, we are making a mistake in the law to ensure that the Minister can intervene if that responsibility is not taken. So I'd like to hear from the Minister later how she looks at this amendment. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the practice route and the flow. The MBO statement is a nice way to make sure that it is not all or nothing, that students can get appreciation for what they did and not just be paid for what they didn't do. At the moment, however, there is also scope for MBO training courses to allow executive students from VMBO to flow into the practical route that have not completed their training on VMBO. I hear from various MBO institutions that offer practical routes that that experimental space might disappear. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly how that is and whether this is true. In my opinion, this is a bit between her and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education. But I also see on the Twitter accounts of both ministers that they regularly have joint work visits on this subject, so I hope that the Minister will be able to say something about this later. Then to the point of unused teaching materials. We have drawn attention to this more often and have also, together with the CDA and the SP, tabled motions on it. It is a good thing that Mr Smals's amendment is now there, that I also fully support it, so I have co-signed it to put a stick behind the door in the law, in case institutions, publishers and other stakeholders do not take their responsibilities. I hope it's not necessary, but if it's necessary, we'll at least make it possible. Then I go to another point, which is perceived by many students as problematic, namely unclear communication about the end of courses. I read in the report to the written consultation that the Minister indicates that institutions are now better communicating about this at her insistence. That's good news. But then I do have the question to the Minister how she will keep her finger on the wrist and monitor whether this actually leads to greater clarity for students. I know that JOB keeps a record of this in, among other things, the JOB monitor, but I am also curious to see what other possibilities the Minister sees for monitoring whether this is desirable and sufficient and whether it is sufficiently clear to students. Because we still regularly hear stories from MBO students who have not received clear communication about it and then, for example, get a fine on the doormat because they have used their student travel product for too long, while they haven't consciously done so, because they didn't even know that their education had ended. Then you can think: how strange that you don't know. But there are plenty of institutions where, for example, you take your last exam in June, while the graduation ceremony is only in September. Then I think it makes sense for the student to think: then I'll probably be written out in September. In practice, the student is already written out in June or July. So it simply needs to be clearly communicated. I'd like to hear from the Minister how she's watching this happen. Finally, Mr President. I've already said a few things about the MBO student fund. It's a good thing this is coming. It is good that this can help young people from minimal families and strengthen their control. We do wonder whether 10 million extra on the lumpsum is sufficient to fulfil both these tasks, so to offer both control and support to students from minimal families. But in the end we do think: let's start with this. We also read that the Minister is going to evaluate this after a year. That seems very sensible to us, because of the questions we have. So we're looking forward to that evaluation in a year's time with confidence. I'd like to leave it at that for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u16	Then thank you very much, Mr Van den Berge. I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u17	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into the legislation, I'd like to consider the death of Jos de Goey. A passionate advocate. A man with a mission for the MBO and for MBO students. Above all, he was very kind. Jos de Goey, mister WorldSkills. This week there are professional competitions in Leeuwarden, where students show their craftsmanship. With Jos' commitment, these professional competitions for the MBO have been put on the map throughout the Netherlands. We're gonna miss him. I wish his family strength. Mr. Chairman. Mbo's hot. There's a run on MBOs. Appraisal and status of professionals is increasing. And rightly so, because without MBOs, our society is stuck. I do notice that it matters which region or city you are in for how they talk about MBOs. In the Westland, young people have a lot of respect for MBOs among themselves. But in the city young people sometimes talk about the MBO with disrespect. That's not right. The CDA sees in this law an improvement in the position and appreciation of the MBO. That starts with the name in this bill. Instead of "participants," we speak of "students." After all, they do a study in craftsmanship. The chef with the golden hands that is bad in d's and t's, the carpenter who is super handy but difficult to learn, the young person who, due to problems at home, is no longer able to take lessons: with this proposal young people for whom it is not possible to obtain a diploma at some point, the possibility of an MBO certificate, so that they can show what they have achieved, what exams they have done and what practical experience they have. This should help to get back on track at a later date and still obtain a diploma. Also in the context of lifelong development, this contributes to strengthening the position of the MBO student. The CDA still has a number of implementing questions. The vote on the Kuik/El Yassini motion asked the government to examine whether the difference between the MBO declaration and the MBO certificate is clear enough. An overview document has been issued on this subject. The CDA group asks the Minister whether the difference between the MBO declaration and the MBO certificate is clear enough, both from the perspective of the student and the business community. Can the Minister please tell us what the content of that statement is going to look like? Is it unambiguous? And can she address the concerns that the MBO Council has about this? Are schools able to meet the conditions in the short term? The CDA would also like to see the explanation for the employer and the student themselves made clear what steps and possibilities there are so that a person can obtain his or her diploma, his or her qualification later on. I have a question for you. People can obtain experience certificates. Can that be stacked? Is there gonna be a block? So that connects with each other, so that the diploma can eventually be obtained? I already started with it: the MBO is popular, even so popular that young people are picked out of school even before they get a diploma. That's unacceptable. The Minister comes before 1 April with the preparation of the Kuik/Smals motion. For this, agreements are made with employers, so that young people are not picked out of school but follow the bb-learning process. This is a win-win situation, which means that there is not only craftsmanship for a company in practice, but also education at school. If young people come to work without a diploma, the employer must take responsibility. This statement may help to encourage a person working in the meantime to obtain a starting qualification. An important part of this law is the creation of the MBO Student Fund, to provide financial support to students participating in a student council or who are lagging behind due to special circumstances. I have some enlightening questions about this. The law lays down a number of conditions, but also leaves room for a school to apply exceptions. An exception that is mentioned is top sport. What about carers? Are they also included in that exception group? Isn't that just the young people who need extra support? The CDA also asks about the distribution of the 10 million for the MBO student fund. In one region there is perhaps more demand for the MBO student fund among institutions than in the other region. Can the Minister indicate to what extent this is taken into account? Then I come to the fee for participating in the student council. The Minister says that the level of remuneration should be determined by the school itself. Why wasn't a minimum support chosen? Because isn't the student council an ideal school for students from the point of view of citizenship to participate and learn about democratic processes and the influence they can exert? In doing so, MBO students can be encouraged to develop their own democratic views. It is therefore also important for the CDA to encourage this. This law is about strengthening the position of the MBO student. We have talked about it many times: the position of young people with a migration background, when it comes to applying for employment, is partly disadvantaged in practice. Everyone agrees that internship discrimination should not exist. The Minister is working hard on that, too. Yet MBO students with a migration background are far less easy to get an internship place than classmates without a migration background. I mention a quote from a student with a Moroccan background: "After 22 interviews, you get the idea: how come I can't find an internship? Some classmates received an internship after three interviews. It can't be done, but there's nothing we can do about it." Often young people leave it at that, while there are several declaration points. Mr Van den Berge has just made this very clear. Together with GroenLinks, the CDA proposes to create a point in a modern, accessible way where young people can report this, for example via an app. That should not only be the case if something is going on in a negative sense, but also in a positive sense. For example, what are job tips? And how do you deal with it if you think you're being discriminated against? However, it is especially important that this is really developed with young people, so that this app is actually downloaded. Because we can't think of it as beautiful from here on out as the young people themselves. Finally, the CDA has some other questions and comments for the Minister. Following the Özdil/Kuik motion which was adopted, which called on the government to encourage MBO schools to take back unused educational supplies from students, approximately 25% of the schools included this in the scheme. The Minister wants to encourage the schools to do this more. The problem will be solved automatically if schools are more aware of this, says the Minister. Together with other parties, we think a stick behind the door is sensible. That is why I signed Mr Smals' amendment, including with other parties. The approved Kuik/Westerveld motion also calls for an investigation into the adaptation of the WHW and the WEB, so that students with a disability, chronic illness or family care task are informed through the OER about adapted possibilities in relation to the educational programme, exams and the support offer. The Minister states that the inventory is expected to take place in 2020. That's a hell of a long time. Can the Minister indicate whether, for example, this will be possible before the new academic year in 2020? I will conclude by congratulating my colleague, Mr Smalls. We're already working well together, but I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Kuik. I shall now give the floor to Mr Bruins, on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u19	Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate Mr Smalls on his maiden speech and thank him for the personal words he has spoken in this Chamber. The debate where he could have his maiden speech is a nice debate, because today we are talking about perhaps the most important group of young people we have in our country: the MBO students. The MBO is an essential part of our education system, where we train young people to become professionals. Hundreds of thousands of young people choose the MBO. In my opinion, there might actually be more, because we now and in the future have a great need for practically trained people, with specific skills and professional skills. It is good that today we are explicitly considering the MBOs and that we are working with this bill to strengthen their position. My group very much appreciates the steps the Minister intends to take with this legislative proposal. I do have a few more questions. First of all, about the student fund. It is a good thing that financial support is made available to students who do not yet claim student funding and to students who are delayed. For this, 10 million is added to the lumpsum of the MBO. Schools must then themselves create a policy framework in which they shape the student fund. It is good that schools can deliver tailor-made work in this way, but at the same time this can lead to the situation that students can make different claims at different institutions. What is the Minister's view of this possible injustice of justice? By adding resources to the lump sum, schools can be encouraged to keep the student fund as limited as possible and not to pay too much attention. We don't want that. On the other hand, if they lack funds for the fund, they will have to use education resources to meet the application. We don't want to. So that can just end up in each other's waters and lead to strategic behavior. Why has the Minister not chosen earmarked funds and how does it intend to prevent institutions from squeezing on the student fund? Mr. Chairman. The bill states that the 10 million is distributed among schools in proportion to the number of students, while in some regions there are far more minimal families than in others. Students from these families will be able to claim support. The evaluation of the temporary scheme also contained clear findings on this: "We know that the proportion of minimum families in some regions is much higher than in others. In Groot Rijnmond, the majority of the target group are MBO students from minimal families, 19%, in the Achterhoek 9.2%." Isn't it more logical to distribute the money in proportion to the distribution of students from low-income families in a region? Has the Minister thought about this and what considerations has she made in this regard? As far as I am concerned, we need to at least monitor whether institutions come up with the funds made available to the student fund and whether the distribution is adequate, given the differences between institutions in terms of population. Mr. Chairman. Communication about the student fund will be crucial. We also see at universities and colleges that the profiling fund is often hardly known and that it does not reach all students for whom it is intended. How does the Minister view this? How do we ensure that the money actually reaches the people who are entitled to it and who need it most? The target group covered by the student fund is quite limited in law. For example, only students on a central student council are entitled to the fund, while there are many other ways in which students are active in participation or in social or administrative matters. These are also valuable ways to gain experience outside your education. As far as my group is concerned, we should also be aware of this, because it is good if students develop more widely and have the space to be active alongside their studies. In higher education, the profiling fund is also broader and more secondary work is covered by that fund. Why is that different here, so I ask the Minister. How does she look at this? I find Mr Bishop's amendment on this very interesting. I would also like a response from the Minister. One final comment on the student fund. Schools will be asked to carry out a formal review of household income in order to determine whether there is a right to financial support for the purchase of educational resources. Can educational institutions fulfil this responsibility? How are they going to do that assessment and should we want them to have that role, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group very much welcomes the fact that this bill provides good provisions for MBO students who are expecting a baby. Too often we see women being delayed or even falling out because there are no good provisions and rules for pregnancy in education. That is why these are good steps. But we're not here yet if we just lay down rules in the law. Personal guidance and good communication are also essential. My group believes that those teenage mothers who decide to continue their training and thus fight for the future of their child deserve our utmost support. Does the Minister know how that support on the MBOs is arranged? How does the Minister intend to promote this? Can we do more? That's how I ask her. Is the Minister prepared to ask for more attention for more support from these brave girls? Mr. Chairman. A completely different point. You know I have double feelings about the fact that MBOs are now also going to be called "student." That has the suggestion in it that you really count only when you are a student and are called a student. The problem in the Netherlands is that it is. Instead of being proud of our professionals, we are doing word inflation. It's like being a student is the most feasible. But with that you miss the essential character of vocational education. So, as far as I am concerned, too much value is attached to the term "student." If another name is needed to give MBOs certain student benefits, what exactly are you doing? Let us not pretend that this term is now suddenly going to ensure that this recognition is there. It's actually a confirmation to the contrary. I had to get that off my chest, Mr. Chairman. But we will also support this change of name, if it is indeed necessary to give those rights to MBO students. Then there's the MBO statement. It is good that this agreement from the coalition agreement is now being achieved. With the MBO statement, a student who doesn't finish the course can still show what he has learned. It has no civil value in itself, but such a document can help a failure to move towards the labour market. It can also encourage the drop-out to obtain an MBO diploma at a later stage. As far as my group is concerned, it is very important that we do not see MBO declarations as a final objective and that they are used instead of diplomas. Especially in deficit sectors and in times of a thriving economy, there would be a risk that companies would take away students and that MBOs would not complete their training. I would also like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u20	I'll come back to those students, because I couldn't quite follow. I think it is a good thing that we are trying to include MBOs, however different they may be from others, Mr Bruins will agree with me that every human being is different under the heading of'student', so that they are given equal rights. Mr Bruins says in one sense that he has difficulty with that, but he says three sentences later: but we will support it wholeheartedly. So I was just wondering what it's gonna be like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u21	We'll support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u22	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u23	We will not table an amendment to stop it. If it is apparently necessary in the Netherlands to be called student to get certain rights, so be it! But it would be better if we lived in a country where MBO students have the same rights as students. As far as I'm concerned, that would have been the really good choice. Because it's not in that name. It shouldn't be in there, either. It's not supposed to be that when you change a name, you suddenly get rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u24	No, but just by making that a point and actually wanting to go back to "Mbo students" it seems as if that name is important. That's one way of interpreting it. I'm not going to make a big deal about it, but I just don't quite understand your point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u25	The Christian Union is a strong supporter of the apprenticeship system. What would be ideal is that an MBO student is called a "student" and that once he gets his diploma, he is a "competitor." And after a number of years of pursuing an occupation and having done an aptitude test, he is then a "master." Apprentice-competitor, that's what you do in vocational education. The name "student" is now being chosen to give them rights. I think you could have incorporated that into the law in a different, more elegant way. But apparently this is necessary in the Netherlands and everyone in this country is called "student." Well, that's just it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u26	Yes, but it sounds very defeatist: apparently that is needed in this country. I just liked what Mr. Bruins said about that notion of "student." If students do have more rights, you could have arranged otherwise in an amendment that those "participants" or "mbo" or "pupils" I mean: what's in a become? Don't they get the same rights without elevating them to "student" with this semantic appeal to something I don't think they are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u27	Changing the name to "student" has a large majority in the Chamber. Even if it is semantic, if I were to make such an amendment, it would by no means have a majority. So that would be pointless work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u28	If the criterion for making politics here is that you just accept the vast majority in the Chamber, I would have sat at home ten years ago, I think. May I ask one more question, Mr. Chairman? It's a very clear question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u29	I'm not gonna respond to that for the sake of collegiality, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u30	Okay. But I have a very clear question about that MBO statement. I hear you say, if I have heard correctly, that this MBO statement has no civil value. Neither did the school statement we already have. So what exactly is the added value of that MBO statement? Because I see nothing but dangers in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u31	If I understand correctly, the scope is now being widened to all levels and it is becoming a real right. That's how I read the bill and, in that sense, I can support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u32	Finally, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u33	Finally. But it's still without civilian effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u34	Yes. You can show what you can do. You can show me your skills. That's worth it, I think, when you start applying, for example. But there is indeed no civil effect in the sense of a diploma. By the way, I would like to see this move in the long term as a whole towards a kind of evc system and therefore seamlessly develop the whole system of a lifetime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u35	I still have a question on the point of going from participant to student. Mr Bruins just said that this is a semantic discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u36	I also think that 'participant' is a very bad word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u37	First, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u38	I can also use the word'student', but I am concerned about the point that Mr Bruins says it is a semantic discussion. I don't think that's it. Indeed, we have had more debates here about the fact that MBO students are refused from student associations and student housing. There is therefore discrimination because until recently MBO students were called different from HBO students and wo students. That makes it far from a semantic discussion for my group, but it really is a very fundamental point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u39	This is a very good point from Mr Van den Berge. That discrimination has taken place and it is taking place. And that discrimination should not be allowed to take place. The question is whether you need to solve it by changing a name, or whether you need to address the specific issue of discrimination there. But if the easiest way to call them "student," that's the way we solve that in this country. And I can live with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u40	Maybe very briefly. It does seem to me to be the easiest solution, otherwise we will have to call student accommodation 'pupils/student accommodation' and then we will have to do the same with student associations. So I think this is the easiest solution. That's what it takes. I am therefore glad that Mr Bruins will finally acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u41	You could just say that student accommodation is open to anyone who goes to further education. If that's how you define it, there's no discrimination. If you want to solve cases with a name change, you don't get to the heart of the problem. That's what I'm trying to tell you here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u42	And you were at the end of your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u43	I was at the end, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u44	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Beertema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u45	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my congratulations to Mr. Smalls of the VVD. He had a wonderful personal story. We, too, of course, warmly welcome him to this beautiful committee OCW. I hope he lasts a long time. The VVD wants to switch people before they're in. That would be unfortunate in this case. The proposal now before us aims to strengthen the position of the MBO student with six measures. That is also very necessary, because in the MBO we see an excess of vulnerable students, which does not do the reputation good. I refer to the social climate, for example, the safety of pupils and teachers and the educational environment. It is precisely for this reason that parents would give anything to drag their own children out of primary school for a have-been advice rather than a vmbo advice, otherwise they would be "convicted" to the MBO. It really shouldn't be like that. Strengthening this position is therefore more than welcome, but out of the six measures five focus on strengthening those most vulnerable MBOs. So they actually make the MBO even more attractive for this category than it already is. With the setting up of a student fund, measures are taken to assist MBOs affected by illness or struggling with disabilities, with special family conditions or all kinds of unpleasant conditions. That is a very good thing, but in order to facilitate pregnant MBO students with that fund, we are going a little too far. I'll come back to that in a moment. There will also be an obligation to issue an MBO certificate to any young person up to 23 years of age who leaves the institution without a starting qualification. Furthermore, MBOs are in name elevated to students and the obligation to set pre-training requirements is abolished. Finally, I would like to mention explicitly the inclusion in a few laws of what is meant by a valid reason for non-learning as early school leavers. That is a wide range of measures. Of the proposals contained in this bill, we fully support the usefulness and need of an MBO student fund, with one comment. As far as we are concerned, this fund should not be used for students participating in a student council. The fact that this fund is used for MBOs who have had to deal with illness or the loss of a loved one makes total sense. After all, these are unforeseen matters. But consciously choosing a year of government is really an investment in yourself and the institution shouldn't take the fall for that. This will also put additional pressure on the fund, so that MBOs who really need it and really are in trouble would not be able to use the fund in theory. Use the proposed 10 million simply for MBOs whose study career could be dependent on this fund. I'd like to get a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u46	Do I now understand from Mr Beertema's words that he does not really consider participation to be important and that it is not important for students to do so and that they should only do so in order to invest in themselves? In my view, they do so in order to serve the interests of their fellow students and of the institution as a whole. How does Mr Beertema view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u47	Sure, it is. I imagine there's for those students... Of course, it's important that these students, excuse me, mbo'ers, talk along. I almost made a mistake, Mr. Chairman! It's important that those participants, it's also a bad word, huh, "participants" that those mbo'ers talk along and co-decide and think along on the policy in those rocks. That is very important, but it is an investment they make in themselves. If you can put this on your resume, you won't suffer from internship discrimination, I can assure you. All the students I've been through who did this, of course, were among the top of the rocks. There's only $10 million in the MBO fund, isn't there? The idea of using money for this, which cannot then be used for students who should be able to make much and much harder use of it, strikes me a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u48	I regret that, because I think it is very important that we do. Participation takes a lot of time, if that's what you want to do right. If you spend a lot of time there as an MBO student, you can't take a job. Then there's nothing you can do to maintain your income. It would be nice to support this, wouldn't it? If, in the end, it turns out that it is not enough money, we will undoubtedly find each other to invest a little more in it. But it starts with the question whether it is worth something to all of us that students in the MBO actively interfere with the policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u49	Sure, that's worth something to us. That's worth something to me, too. But as I have just said, this is the top of the MBOs who are extremely involved in their own school. Those are the students who end up on their feet. Absolutely. In addition, these MBO programmes are not very overloaded even at level 4. The mbos I've been talking to lately are kind of bored. That scares me every time. They have time left. So I think that with that time effort, that time requirement, it's gonna be okay. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that they cannot take a side job at the time. On the other hand they have so much fun with their own resume with this kind of activities that will undoubtedly come back well later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u50	Last but not least, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u51	I don't remember exactly how the discussion went when we decided to do this in the HBO and the wo, but that's exactly the same. That is why I am making a final attempt to convince Mr Beertema. He's a huge fan of the MBO. He's given it his whole life. Surely it cannot be that we are now telling these students that they should see it as an investment in themselves as MBOs, while we are creating that opportunity for students in HBO and wo? That's some kind of inequality we shouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u52	But in the discussion on higher education we had exactly the same institution, if I do remember. Then it was also about nominal graduation, about an additional year of administration and so on. That third year in the Bachelor's, we found more than enough. If you're gonna have to have these board tasks, you're gonna have to use that year for that. Again, in the MBO the programs are not very overloaded. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I stand by my own point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u53	If you say that this is only for those students who can pay it as an investment in themselves, that means that it's only for those students who don't need that side job. That is the problem with Mr Beertema's position. Then it's only for parents' students who can make up for themselves. We're talking about representation here. It must also be representative and diverse. That is why it is important to be able to pay for it, so that everyone has access to such a student council and to the opportunity to pimp his or her resume. I am curious to see how Mr Bertema looks at this. Should it be something for the lucky few or should everyone have access to that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u54	This is also based on the realistic view that the money available is very limited. It's only $10 million. My experience is that we are dealing with so many students in the MBO, especially in the lower levels, where poverty and financial misery are so great that not even the most basic school resources can be purchased. Then I would prefer the MBO fund to be used for these distressing cases, which are very many, and I am afraid that the 10 million is absolutely not enough, rather than for the boys and girls who are going to devote themselves to this type of task. It is a question of: you can only spend a euro once. I'd rather spend it on those harrowing cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u55	No, look, with support for poignant cases, we're totally in agreement. We are concerned and we are also asking whether that amount is enough. But to come to the conclusion in advance that control has to come out completely, I find the wrong order. Let's do this. Let's keep a finger on the wrist and monitor it. I agree with Mr Van Meenen: if there is indeed not enough money, then we need to see if there is money. But to say in advance "it has to come out completely, because I see that 10 million is too little," I don't think the order is right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u56	I would like to give that position to GroenLinks. Then that's not the right order. I have my own order. This participation is very important and does not take so much time. It's really good when it happens, but it's all the same types of students that show up there. For example, I see them coming back to LAKS and JOB. Those are the starting niggers who are all going to vote D66 and GroenLinks. LAKS, for example, makes heavily subsidised films in which they have already embraced Curriculum.nu, which has not even been discussed in this Chamber, because that is the whole new education. I'm a little allergic to that. Well, give me that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u57	Then I conclude that Mr Beertema says: 'Bessure is important. I am allergic to the types that are in it, but those types have to pay for it themselves." That is a worrying point of view, because if we really want to give MBO students a stronger position, then we must also let them take part in their education and enable them to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u58	Very nice. Mr. Chairman. Strengthening the position of pregnant MBOs will lead to prolonged periods of absence. Allowed sixteen weeks.... sixteen It is far too long for us to be absent. Imagine if a student doesn't attend the training course for 16 weeks and then comes back. Then how do we reasonably expect the teachers' team to solve that? How does a student like that get so far behind? With customization, the minister will say. With customization. That's very easy to say when you're sitting there. Unless you're in that class, it's gonna be a lot harder. Starting the class again seems like a much more sensible option. However, the Minister will undoubtedly convince me of this later. Mr. Chairman. In addition, having a child is a personal choice and the responsibility of the student himself, for which education is not directly responsible and should not be entrusted. Nor do we consider it appropriate to compare it with pregnant workers. We are, of course, talking about pupils in mainstream education. Without being too cynical, I predict a boom in pregnancies if this law makes it and if the consequences become widely known in the MBO community.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u59	There is a comment or a question from Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u60	Now that you're inviting me, Chairman... Then let me start with a comment. If a motion I have ever tabled is going to lead to a boom in pregnancies, I have had more impact than I would have hoped when I entered this Chamber. Then the question, because it's getting a little confusing now. When it comes to participation, Mr Beertema says: make sure that this fund is spent on people who fail otherwise. Now it's about pregnant women who, if all goes well, eventually become a young mother, a group that we see is 50% more out of school than regular students. Then Mr Beertema says: yes, the money cannot be meant for that either. This group meets precisely the definition that you have just used when it comes to supporting students who fail otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u61	Well, no. When it comes to harrowing cases, when it comes to financial delays, to poverty, when it comes to disability, when it comes to all these things, I would not compare them with a self-chosen early pregnancy at 16 or 17. I remember the rock where I worked was also very concerned with the teenage mothers and then bought a building and built apartments to house those teenage mothers there. Within six months the whole building was full, because there were special students from other parts of the world, from the Antilles, to subscribe to that rock where I taught, because at least there you could just be a teenage mother and live for free. You know, it has a sucking effect. Such a measure is based on an invitation from: on this rock you can just have a baby and then you will be taken very good care of and so on. I do not think that is the primary responsibility of a school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u62	Topanecdote, but he doesn't make any sense because now Mr Beertema is talking about one rock. The whole idea of legal regulation is precisely that the right arises with each MBO institution. Then there is no competition between them: one does better and the other does not. In addition, Mr Beertema is now bringing in all kinds of things, such as disability and times of illness, things that are outside your own control. That wasn't the definition he just used. He just said that this fund should be meant for students who fail otherwise. Figures show that this group is included. What happened between five minutes ago and now that at once Mr Beertema started to use completely different definitions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u63	Those are not other definitions. I just explained. A self-chosen pregnancy at 16 doesn't seem to me to be something you should encourage by using public money, educational money, to support those often desperately poor families. It's about other things in education. It's about emancipation. It's about development. It is not so much a question of giving financial support to people in situations like this. I don't think that's such a crazy argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u64	Mr Kwint, last but not least.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u65	It is a very crazy reasoning, precisely from the point of view of emancipation and development. If the alternative is that they're not only going to have a hard time as a young mother anyway, because it's just quite complicated to raise a child at age 16 or 17 when you're 35, it's still pretty complicated, can I tell you with some experience, but that they're going to fall out too, then you're giving them that kind of support, right? Otherwise, they will be sitting not only with a child on the couch, but also without a degree on the couch, despite all the fine words about emancipation and upliftment. These are abstract concepts for a person without a diploma at home. I simply cannot reconcile it with the rest of Mr Beertema's statements on the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u66	I've been through a lot of students like this. I've had classes. As a mentor, I loved to assist those students in finding solutions, but that wasn't about money. It was about using their own family associations, organizing babysitters and so on. Of course, that was part of your duties as a coach, as a mentor, and so on. But it goes too far for me to use OCW money, taxpayers' money, for that. That is what I would rather use at that point in time for the really poignant cases that are in situations that they really cannot do anything about, because they have a disability or illness, have no parents or I know what they have and are unable to buy school resources. Again, it's 10 million. Come on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u67	Then Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u68	Mr Beertema's particular image of 16-year-old mothers who apparently all consciously opt for pregnancy, and especially if there is a state contribution in the form of some support in the study, Mr Kwint has tried to talk out of his mind in detail. He didn't. I'm gonna try one more time, but from the child's perspective. Because at least the child didn't choose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u69	What child?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u70	Well, from a pregnancy comes a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u72	I'm talking about that kid right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u73	I thought you were talking about the child having a child.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u74	No, I'm talking about the newborn child; let me put it this way. This child has not chosen anything, and is it very much in the interest of the parent, in this case the mother, to complete an education? Isn't that a huge increase in the child's chances?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u75	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u76	Shouldn't we feel co-responsibility for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u77	A dramatic picture is now being sketched. I worked in Rotterdam-Zuid. There were incredibly many unmarried young teenage mothers. Most of them ended up on their feet just fine. Is that a hard life? Yes, of course that is a difficult life, but also with the help of school a lot can already happen in terms of guidance and pointing the way to institutions. The social map we had in the teacher's room was almost more important than the teaching methods. You shouldn't have the pretence that you can eliminate every social problem that arises. It can't be. We are there as a school, as a rock, primarily to teach those girls and boys a trade, to get them better and to try to get them into middle class, but at home behind the front door or on the street they live their own lives. How deep do you want to intervene in that? I think this is going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u78	I will leave it at that, but this is not about intervention, it is about support. Because in the end it is still so, let me ask Mr Beertema that if that does not happen in a good way... I fight that a lot of these young mothers end up on their feet. I don't think that happens a lot. In the end, then, the social costs are much higher than when we put them into realising education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u79	Okay. Imagine if we did all do this. A girl like that will be out of business for 16 weeks. When she comes back, she's still in conditions that aren't ideal and she might not know the way to child care and so on. The follow-up to those 16 weeks will be extremely problematic on training. I'm sure the minister's gonna say, "We're gonna legally anchor it. Then these girls have a legal right to take some kind of maternity leave and then they can go back to training cheerfully." That doesn't work, Mr. Van Meenen. That customization is conceived there at the headquarters of the Unless you put them all behind a computer with a personalized program, but that's not education; we probably agree on that. It's very difficult for those teacher teams. How can you get rid of 16 weeks in difficult circumstances? We are going to pass a law that gives us all a very good feeling but which in practice doesn't solve anything, except that tonight we have a good feeling about the hot meal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u80	Mr Bertema talks about self-chosen pregnancies in young mothers, but is he aware of the fact that at that age there are also a lot of non-elected pregnancies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u81	Yeah, I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u82	And does he agree with me that we should surround teenage mothers who do that and choose to keep their baby and continue their education to ensure that their child can have a good future, with man and power, and with warmth, love and help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u83	Sure. I fully agree with Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u84	But what's the "but" then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u85	There's a "but" behind it. You are now pretending to be a huge percentage, but of course you are not. That's not true. It is a matter of a few cases, and I would say: of course, the school must be able to be called upon; absolutely. But it's just a few cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u86	But at the same time there are locations where it is more than just a few cases. That's regional. Just there, even at the school where Mr Beertema himself taught, this support is so much needed...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u87	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u88	...to put a heart in these teenage mothers, so to be able to support them in giving a future for their baby.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u89	That's absolutely true. I agree entirely with Mr Bruins, but those teenage mothers can have sufficient support. They can get that love, that warmth and that shelter. But not in the form of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u90	Proceed, Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u91	Where was I, Mr. Chairman? We also see no need for the plan to require every young person up to 23 years of age who leaves the MBO without a starting qualification to issue an MBO certificate, because what is the added value of such a statement? Pilots are now looking at the value of such a statement on the labour market. But wouldn't it have been better if those results had already been insightful? As far as I know, it hasn't. And if it isn't, why is there a pilot set up if the minister knew in advance that she was going to do this anyway? Doesn't giving such an explanation have the effect that it can actually lead to additional failure? Can such an MBO declaration not be the correct result of the fact that more and more MBOs will be less motivated and therefore more likely to opt for an MBO certificate rather than a full degree? Each course contains very nasty subjects that you're not very good at but which are needed for a full qualifying line. "No need anymore" is the Minister's implicit message. Drop it. You're gonna get that pretty statement anyway. Did the Minister think of that? Mr. Chairman. We have never seen anything in the Minister's intention to no longer call MBOs "participants" but "students." We think it is an artificial measure that implies that there is something wrong with the MBO, and that is not so much the case as with the education of an MBO institution. The Minister himself states that this proposal is part of a broader policy to improve the position of MBOs and the image of the MBO as a whole. In any case, we do not see anything in this solution for a problem which we do not think exists and which is nothing but a semantic gulp. Besides, this minister seems to think that your life will only succeed if you've been a student. That's not true, Minister. Can you imagine that all those MBOs of the ROC of Amsterdam will soon register as a member of that elite Amsterdamsch Student Corps? I don't think anyone's gonna like that. Mr. Chairman. Our main objection, however, is the plan to stop requiring MBO institutions to lay down further pre-training requirements for admission to vocational training. We want MBO institutions to be involved in their own admission policies. This law wants MBO training not to require further pre-training requirements but to be able to ask for them. So what is the ratio of this measure? These pre-training requirements are not for nothing, nor are further pre-training requirements. In doing so, we do not think it is appropriate to interfere with the current uniformity of flow-through arrangements. There is a danger that those who suffer from student shortages will deal with this differently than those who have enough influx. I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. With the exception of the MBO student fund, I do not see from my modest experience in the MBO how this bill improves the position of the MBO and the MBO's. Worse still, all five proposals weaken the position of the MBO and the MBO, especially when it comes to the reputation of us once so beautiful MBO. Finally, Mr President. My colleague from the CDA has already referred to Jos de Goey. A man who meant a lot to the name and fame of the MBO. That was Jos de Goey. He was the great inspiration of the Skills Netherlands as director of WorldSkills Netherlands, and he was recently appointed President of WorldSkills International. He died suddenly last week. I'm just thinking about remembering him and his family, friends, family and his lovely team of the Skills expressing their condolences for the great loss of this great inspirator of our MBO. I just wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u92	Thank you, Mr. Beertema. I call Mr Van Meenen. He is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u93	Mr. Chairman. I can only endorse the words spoken by Mr Beertema but also by Mrs Kuik about Jos de Goey. That's what I'm doing here. I'm not gonna repeat it all, but it's really sad what happened. That's a hit for the Dutch Mbo and actually for the Mbo worldwide, you might say. We remember him. At the same time, I congratulate Mr Smalls on his wonderful personal story. He was already in our midst, and he still is. We know a little more about him now. We will enrich that further with each other in the coming period by also telling our stories. Unfortunately, he wasn't at our maiden speeches. But it's gonna be okay. Mr. Chairman. There is, of course, nothing more beautiful than vocational education and especially the MBO. It is always nice to be able to have a debate on this, and then on such a good bill. I would like to express my appreciation for that and congratulate the Minister on that. This proposal adapts the law in such a way that MBOs are also called "students." But that is not the only thing: they are also legally similar to their colleagues in higher education. This is a very important step in the recognition and equal treatment of different types of talent. Mr. Chairman. That's not what we're here for. I've drawn attention to it before. Many MBO students are actively excluded regularly. With this we deny a group of young people their student time. This way they are not welcome at introductory weeks. No city does a joint introductory week. During these weeks, the whole city is often turned upside down. Organisations and restaurants join. But MBO students are not welcome in those weeks at pubs, sports fields or museums. Why? Because they can't show an HBO or a WE college card. Some bars make it even more colourful and even shut out MBO students all year round. In my view, MBO students have the same right to a fun student time as other students. In addition, student discounts often do not apply to MBO students, such as sports subscriptions or media subscriptions. Many sports associations also apply this policy. After the previous debate, Spotify has gone overboard. That's very nice. Spotify now also offers student discount to MBO students. Very nice. For example, there are still many examples of places where such discrimination should stop at educational level. We want that to end and we want to go to an equal appreciation of MBO, HBO and wo. Can the Minister reflect on the earlier equivalence between HBO and wo? How'd that go? Is the Minister prepared to engage in a wide-ranging discussion with whomever it is about the equivalence of MBOs as a student? It seems to me, by the way, that I would like to go along with Mr Bertema's horror when some MBOs report to a student corps. I think it's very good for everyone. A party for everyone. You'll learn something from that. Keep meeting in your life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u94	What surprises me a little is this. Mr. Van Meenen all mentions examples, such as cheaper beer, becoming a member of a certain student association and whether or not to enter a disco. But the fact that we're going to name MBO students doesn't have anything to do with that, does it? It's about much more fundamental things, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u95	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u96	I don't understand why you mention these examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u97	The basic things are regulated in the law, but for the things that are at stake in our society and in reality outside this room and outside education, there is still a great deal to be desired. That's what I'm asking for attention to be paid to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u98	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u99	Mr. Chairman. Similarly, finding a student home is difficult. This is often organised through student associations and is therefore more difficult for MBO students. On Kamernet or Facebook you can often see: only hbo or wo. My question is: does this law affect finding student homes for MBOs? Can such exceptions still be made at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u100	Mr. Chairman. Then there's the MBO student fund. We've just been talking about it in all kinds of interruptions. It is very good that this is going to happen: EUR 10 million per year. It is about pregnancy, about participation and about students who, for all kinds of reasons, are in trouble and deserve support. Ultimately, it is very important that we help those students to complete their training and to support them in doing so. However, it is free for institutions to shape this fund through the lumpsum, both in terms of size and scope. In higher education, we have already seen that this can lead to problems. For example, students who change studies can suddenly lose their financial support. At the time, joint agreements from the VSNU provided clarity in this area. My question to the Minister is whether this does not create undesirable inequality. What would the mr's influence be in the formation of such a fund? Wouldn't it be a good idea to facilitate the MBO Council and the JOB to make joint agreements on the implementation, as was done at the VSNU and the boards at the universities, so that both institutions and students have a lead? Mr. Chairman. With this law, we also introduce the MBO declaration. That is very good in my group's view. The MBO declaration is the replacement of the declaration of institution for young people under 23 years of age without a starting qualification, which we have just discussed. Very good, then. This is a statement on the results achieved during the unexpected early school leaving. These are students who are just not able to achieve that one theory subject, for example, but can continue and thus make a very valuable contribution. This is very important for young people and for society, because every talent counts and every talent should be exploited. Of course, we do not close our eyes to what is already happening in the context of green picking. What we have set out in the government agreement, for example, in the context of the desire to maintain graduation in education remains of great importance. But it is precisely in the context of lifelong learning that you could give much more substance to this, as I thought Mr Van den Berge referred to it, just like Mrs Kuik... with the competences previously acquired. If you shape it properly, it can be an open invitation to continue studying at some point and still have the opportunity to get that diploma. Finally, on the flow. We have arranged all kinds of things for the flow from vmbo to mbo, but I would like to talk about the flow within the mbo, for example from level 2 to level 3 or from level 3 to level 4 or even from level 2 to level 4. When switching within the MBO, capacity tests are often carried out, for example, we understand from the JOB, which is not allowed. How does the Minister view that? What can we do about that, I would ask her briefly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u101	Thank you very much. I still see some contact between Mr Van Meenen and Mr Beertema. That confuses me somewhat. Let's not challenge each other. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Kwint. Mr Kwint spoke on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u102	As always, Mr. Chairman. And if you spend more time at the Education Committee meetings, you're a little less upset by those two grumpy men who occasionally try to get in touch with each other. A kind of Statler and Waldorf of the Education Committee are also called. Mr. Chairman. It's a good thing this law is in place. I agree with everyone who says that only semantics, just changing a word, will not change the actual position of students. On the other hand, I would like to point out that words do matter and that this legislative proposal also involves a little more than just semantics. The legal status of the MBO student is really better anchored. That has been a long-cherished wish of my group. Disease, pregnancy or disability should not be grounds for failing to complete MBO training, but the reality is that they are now regular. I have just said it in the debate on the interruption with Mr Bertema: having a child has been, I know for some time now, a rather profound and life-changing event. Especially when you're still young, you're going to have to raise your child more often than average and you're in the middle of an education including all kinds of internships, it can sometimes seem like you have nowhere to go. Honestly, that also matches the stories I heard from young college mothers when I first became MPs. Those young mothers, in order to stay in pregnancy terms for a while, have been at the cradle of the proposal made by the SP together with the PvdA to finally regulate maternity leave for MBOs. That is why we are very pleased that this right is now truly legally enshrined. It is very necessary, because, as I said to Mr Beertema, young mothers fall out up to 50% more often than other students in the MBO. Does that mean we'll be there with a change in the law right away? No, of course not, because paper is patient. There's plenty left to ask. You'll hear about that in the next few minutes. But we are pleased with the direction taken. Let me walk you through some of these questions. In the future, as a MBO student, for example, you will also be eligible for child care allowance. Now life as a student is often not a big deal, especially if you also take a poorly paid internship, as was mentioned earlier. Would it not be possible to make childcare for this group free of charge? How much would that cost? The complicated thing is that it is now different from one municipality to another. I will come back to that later. There is such a thing as an application fee for child care, but previous Cabinets have decided in their inscrutable wisdom to decentralise a large part of the poverty policy, so that this rather important scheme now creates a form of legal inequality, because one young mother can claim it and the other cannot. In the spirit of Mr Beertema, we would not want young mothers to make the choice of their MBO institution dependent on whether or not they can claim such compensation. I think it's a relatively small group. It is a small amount anyway, because with a low income you get a very high percentage of childcare. Couldn't that be easier, even if it's just to prevent them from ever getting into trouble in paying back childcare allowances? Having childcare allowance is not always the guarantee of a long and happy life. Institutions have to offer customization, says the law. But what does that mean? What does customisation mean in practice? I do agree with Mr Beertema that in practice it will not be so easy to get back on the road in education after a long period of absence. Does this mean, for example, that you could do longer about your internship? Or could you say that one day less might mean you're doing two months longer internship and so you're getting your hours in another way? Is this the kind of customization you need to think about? The Minister will feel the question somewhat coming. Is that what we're gonna do for women at HBO and college? I thought that would be a nice next step. The problems are somewhat similar and the challenges are similar. There are institutions that are already working on this, but there are institutions that have not yet done so. You would say: why not arrange this, now that we have taken this beautiful step, also for women in HBO or university who become pregnant? Then I have some questions and suggestions on other parts of the law. Point one: the lumpsum. In comparison with other types of education, the MBO is not particularly good when it comes to the direct spending of the funds received. Why, then, was it chosen to distribute so genericly 10 million among the MBO institutions? Of course, they have to come back to it in the annual report. But what does that say? What can you get out of that? You cannot read in an annual report whether or not applications have been honored. In the written preparation of this debate, the Minister says that the reason for investing it in the institutions is that there can be tailor-made solutions. There it is again! Yeah, you can do that now. Customisation can now also be offered, as well as a broader, generic scheme, such as a central fund. I'm just saying, you're gonna put it up at DUO. There, too, people who answer their phones and who can think with them can find a solution and offer tailor-made solutions. Aren't we running the risk of having to make a separate plan on every MBO? At every MBO you have to set up the student council and the rest of the participation in order to solve a lot of similar problems in a different way in many different places. Indeed, even the level of remuneration is largely left to the institutions. Don't you also run the risk of institutions trying to cut back, either because they're afraid they're gonna run out of money or because they're gonna be left with money? That's another question. 'Cause it's nice that the minister's gonna see if 10 million is enough. That seems to be an important step. If I have heard the previous speakers in this way, finding extra money when it turns out to be too little will be relatively easy. I hear a lot of warm words here about this fund. But there is another side: what if the institution doesn't make the money? It's lumpsum. Then it goes straight from the lumpsum to the savings account, doesn't it? What if an institution says to the student council that it really doesn't have any money for this, for example because of the continuity of the institution? Is it going to be chosen not to support vulnerable students? What happens if the money is spent in other places? The Minister says that this gives institutions the freedom to spend more or less than is made available. 'Cause you're getting a cut available from the student fund. It goes through the lumpsum. Because it goes through the lumpsum, institutions can also spend more on it. I think they can do more anyway. Even if there was to be a central fund, an institution can always decide to continue to guide students. But less is precisely our fear. To what extent is the situation with DUO due to the fact that the Minister has not opted for a central fund? I hope I am wrong, but it would be sad if we no longer do what we think is most sensible, but what our government's implementing services can do. The law also states that the money should contribute to the accessibility of the MBO for young people with disabilities. That is incredibly important, a noble and important endeavour. I hope, however, that this situation will not lead to the funds being spent from the student fund for adjustments to the building that must be done anyway. I hope that this really is an individual guidance question and not just a flat to say a wheelchair shelf at the stairwell in the building. Those are really just things an institution has to do on its own. That is not what this fund should be for. Then, simply because I didn't come out very well on the basis of the legal text, another point: the relationship with the educational agreement. There remained some doubts. Because the Chamber has said it wants to get rid of it, and the Minister has also said it wants to get rid of it, and yet today we are talking about a law that is now going to add things to the education agreement. Things are now laid down, although generic, in the education agreement, which is concluded between an institution and a student. But I think that education agreement is finished; we're gonna stop doing that for once. What happens to all the things that we now lay down in the law to do in an education agreement if we no longer have an education agreement? When it comes to an MBO declaration, I can be relatively brief, because I think the advantages and disadvantages have been discussed fairly extensively by previous colleagues. I really see the advantage for the unfortunate circumstance in which someone leaves an institution, and then leaves with something under the arm that he can simply show in a job interview that he may not have a diploma, but he can do this, this and that. That is an advantage, but the risk has already been identified by a number of people. Especially in these times we see that risk more and more: that students I think "green picking" really is a terrible word; I have to think of a more agricultural setting before they have completed an education, simply because there is work now. Well, that's a risk. For let us be honest: in the next crisis, those who have not completed their training are probably the first to be kicked out again by employers. So I am very curious how the Minister will weigh those two issues, which I think are both widely shared, in the future. The law now provides that students receiving a basic grant are excluded from support from the student fund. Why was this chosen? These students may also be delayed due to special circumstances. I like to hear it when I get it wrong, but then it's just that this delay can lead to students borrowing more because they're making study fees, and so they get higher student debt? Because they're slowing down, just like other students. Then why would you rule out this group? I understand that you can get some of the money back later, but it does mean that you ask students to put themselves in debt first, which we don't think is the right thing to do. That is why I did not fully understand the Minister's answer, which said in the written reply that students with a basic grant do not suffer any financial disadvantage in the event of delay. But a potential higher student debt is, in my opinion, a financial disadvantage, even if you can get it back in part or in full later. We know that building debt can be a strong threshold for some people, and I understand that, to be honest. This seems to me to be something we could possibly repair, and I have also prepared an amendment to that effect. Then the textbooks. By the way, I have not yet congratulated Mr Smals. Congratulations, Mr. Smalls! We have seen each other so many times in debates that it almost scared me that you had to make another maiden speech, but compliments and we are going to cross swords more often. We have tabled an amendment to that effect with the VVD and other parties, partly on the basis of a motion that we tabled with the VVD. At that time the Minister did not want to start immediately with the implementation, she first wanted to wait for the appointments with the MBO. Well, in the meantime, we're so close to summer that it's almost ready, and so we came up with this construction. As far as we are concerned, it remains impossible for students to be chased at a cost for books that do not even have to leave the plastic. The Minister is now in talks with the institutions. If that doesn't have the necessary effect, then as far as we're concerned, they'll only have to sit on the blisters once in a while. Then we just want students to be able to resell their books to the institution. After all, she thought it was necessary to prescribe them, so she can think of a nice destination for them. Is this law even better? We think so. We hope to have made a few proposals to that effect. You know us: constructively. But it is a very important step in the right direction. An important step towards a stronger anchoring of the position of students, and specifically the students who can use a little support in the back. So we wish the Minister every success in implementing this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u103	Thank you very much. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop, who speaks on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u104	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to congratulate Mr Smalls on his wonderful maiden speech. I wish him a pleasant stay in this committee. This is the most beautiful committee of the entire House of Representatives. As with toilet duck, we all agree on that. Mr. Chairman. Everything is well arranged on paper. There's a closing approach. That signal was heard during the hearing organised by the Chamber in 2017 on the position of the MBO students. Unfortunately, the sequel was that the real world turned out to be a little less rosy. For example, Angélique told her that she was written out by her school outside of her school at DUO and immediately had a heavy student debt on her neck. We don't want situations like that. How wonderful it would be if the legislator could mean something to these young people not only on paper but also in real life. Then the change of the name "participant" in "student"... Well, colleagues have spoken worthy words about this. I always feel a little bit about such measures: what is the added value of this choice? Mr. Chairman. I would like to draw attention in my contribution to three themes and to the amendment we have tabled in the meantime. First of all, the issue of vulnerable students. I would like to mention the problem of unsubscription. Surely we cannot allow young people to write off behind their backs, and even with retroactive effect, so that they are saddled with thousands of euros? We should not want young people to be put into debt at this age. The Minister is focusing on better information and communication by the institutions. That's fine. I think this is also very necessary, but I also think that the government should really offer guarantees to this young group. Is it now the case that a write-off can only be valid when the student has been informed in advance and can no longer be done with retroactive effect? Is that right? I'd like to have that confirmed by the Minister. How can we guarantee that, in the event of an unjustified write-off, not the younger but the institution will suffer the consequences? Does the Minister, together with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs, also pay particular attention to this group in the debt approach? Mr. Chairman. The pregnant students also rightly ask our attention. Colleagues have rightly said so. The law and the bill indicate that it is up to the institution to settle an appropriate provision. But what practical added value does it bring if you invest this in the institutions? Wouldn't it make much more sense to issue a national directive here, so that every pregnant student can claim the same support? Now I see the Minister pulling away somewhat white, because the SGP does not call on the freedom of education but wants to regulate it centrally. And rightly so; I understand that. But we have given it a lot of thought and we think that a national directive offers more certainty to the students involved than when each institution itself does. We think that this will also prevent you from getting some kind of competition from: who has the best offer? I would therefore like the Minister's reflection on this. I found the following striking as well. It scared the hell out of me myself. I found that I agree on this point with an organisation such as the Clara Wichmann Institute. That must make the Minister think about it. If that is the case, perhaps it should be looked at again. I'd like to bring it to the attention of the Minister. Then there is the second point, the complexity and the burden. When I looked at the system of the bill, I got the feeling that we made it very complex. Of course, you can understand it if you sit down for a few hours, but doesn't the average citizen have a point when he says that logic doesn't jump right off? In what cases does adulthood matter and not matter? And what about the b.B.B., the vocational guidance pathway? Does the Minister want to keep that under review again? The MBO Council has rightly criticised the obligation on institutions to check whether pupils have sufficient financial resources to buy goods or whether they need support. Schools are not benefit counters. Then why do we saddle the schools with the task of controlling the level of income? Isn't that something that lies with municipalities or for which another organisation can be called? Let us not burden the schools with such a new burden. I don't think this is consistent with the line we chose as government either. Then there's the MBO statement. Mr Kuik spoke of the possible confusion between the MBO and MBO certificates. Didn't we make that unnecessarily complicated for an outsider? It's not at first sight clip-and-ready. It's not a logical distinction. In a sense, I feel that we have not yet thought about what we are talking about sufficiently maturely on this point. I can see how people get to it. I can also endorse the lines of thought contained in the legislative proposal. But it is not a distinction that you say is clear and clear. Mr. Chairman. It is also nice that the government wants to establish that a statement should be made if a student has not been able to complete a full education, but there needs to be a workable model, and that is still a little lacking in this bill. We need another thought in that. Finally, Mr President, the amendment. If you as a legislator decide to set up a student fund, you don't have to do half a job. For similar situations, you must therefore give MBOs similar rights to students in higher education. You don't have to reinvent the wheel for this. Why would a student organisation's board membership be less relevant to MBOs? Why should an unstudable education in the MBO not be a special circumstance? Why should social activities be less profitable for an MBO? I would say: let us settle this in the same way as in higher education. That is why our amendment to item No. 12. I'd like to hear the Minister's appreciation of that. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u105	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that the Minister be given the opportunity to answer the questions put at 7.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u106	The next item is the amendment of the Education and Vocational Training Act and a number of other laws relating to various measures aimed at strengthening the position of MBO students. Then it's about the law strengthening position MBO students. For the dinner suspension we have had the first term from the side of the Chamber. This means that I would now like to give the Minister the floor to answer the questions put. Perhaps at the end it will be able to give an explanation of the amendments. Perhaps the Minister would also like to explain how the answer is going to be given. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u107	Thank you, Mr President. I will tell you in a moment how I have built up the answer, but let me begin by congratulating Mr Smalls on his maiden speech. He told a nice, personal story, but he also said some very nice things about mbos. He said, for example, if you give mbos space and trust, you can actually see them grow. If you will excuse me, I think we are going to get into debates in which I am going to remind you of those words, just as you said: sometimes less rules are also very nice, but it is so difficult to keep them together. I hope to be able to remind you of this once in a while, but I wish you, above all, a great deal of pleasure and wisdom in this beautiful Chamber. Mr. Chairman. In my reply I will refer to the fund, to the scheme for pregnant students, to the MBO declaration, to the issue of internship discrimination and to the internship fee. Finally, there are a number of other points. I think that most of the questions are included in the points of the fund and the MBO declaration. Mr. Chairman. Before I go into those points of substance, I would like to dwell on the death of Jos de Goey, more than a week ago, far too young and very unexpected. He was someone who meant an incredible amount to MBO students. He was really "mister Skills," very active in WorldSkills. I think if we have those Skills games in the north of the country by the end of this week, we'll miss him very much there. The beauty of Mr De Goey was also that he not only often said that the appreciation for that beautiful craftsmanship had to be there, but that he also took action and did a lot about it. I hope you want to see this bill in that line too. Yes, we often see very often in society, fortunately now very often, beautiful words about mbo-students and a revaluation of their craftsmanship. I really liked what Mr Van den Berge said about this, because he also mentioned the enormous importance of these MBOs for any kind of innovation in this society. I'm not going to try to improve you on the Hague plateau, because I'm not very good at that either; I'm just import. But the fact is that we need to be aware that it is not just about our baker, our hairdresser or our plumber. For example, when we talk about the energy transition and important innovations in this society, they will not be implemented without an important contribution from MBOs. Let us have that idea, especially at this time, when we face very great societal challenges and need that kind of innovation. Mr. Chairman. The legislative proposal before us is widely appreciated. That's what I notice in your room. You have a few comments to make, but I would like to thank you for your appreciation. One of the things that we are dealing with in this bill is, of course, that MBOs are now no longer called 'participants', but'students'. I thought that was an important step forward. I remember speaking out in one of the first debates I had in this Chamber as a minister. I was talking to MBOs about "students." I was immediately corrected by a number of MBOs via social media, via Twitter. I put that right in my head. Because the group of students involved is so attached to this. They see not only a semantic discussion in this, I say to Mr Beertema. It also really expresses our social appreciation. I think it was Mr Kwint who said words matter. Yeah, words matter. For how we value people in society, how we talk about each other, words matter, perhaps just in this room. That is why I was very pleased to be able to table this bill myself. I am very attached to the fact that in future the MBO will also be called'student'. Mr Van Meenen asked: does that mean that they, like other students, have access to associations and that they can make use of the same discounts? Of course, it will help if we always express that appreciation, but in the meantime there is also freedom of contracting and freedom of association. But I do have the conviction that it will have an effect in society if we show more and more in word and deed that these are students, just like HBOs and wo'ers. We just have to keep saying that. At least I'll keep doing it wherever I can. Mr. Chairman. An important part of this bill is, of course, the introduction of the MBO student fund. Through that student fund, we help students who need it financially. Whether it's because your parents don't have enough money to buy your books or a laptop, or because you're slowing down because for example you've been sick for a long time, we make sure that financial reasons don't have to be the reason to start or not pursue your studies. With the student fund we also want to strengthen participation. That is why students who take part in a student council receive a fee through this fund. Participation is of great importance, even in the MBO. We want to make sure there's no financial impediment to putting time on that student council. I say to Mr Beertema: yes, of course it is also good for your CV if you have been on such a student council, but in practice we see that the risk of delay that you may be running is still an obstacle for many students. For the student fund we add 10 million euros to the lumpsum. That is, in a sense, a limited amount, although it is not very small. But because it's a limited amount, we've chosen to focus on those groups that need the most support. I will come back to some of the questions you raised about this later. We also need to balance the desire to keep it affordable for schools and the desire to meet the greatest needs as much as possible. Through this bill, schools can also support groups other than those required by the bill. We have required a number of categories in the legislative proposal, but institutions still have free space for the group sub-e. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about the student fund. I'll try to walk by them as best I can one by one. Many of you have asked: what about the distribution of that fund? We'll add that to the lumpsum. This means that it is simply distributed by the method of the lumpsum. For entrance students, the numbers involved are numbers of students and for levels 2, 3 and 4 are numbers of students and diplomas obtained. Those are a bit of the dividing mechanisms we have. That distribution system is in the law. If you want to distribute this amount in a different way through that system, you will also have to change the law for that. I would point out, however, that this amounts to EUR 10 million, to a total of EUR 3.5 billion that we are distributing. I understand the question: are there no more minimum incomes in some parts of the country than in other parts of the country? Yeah, that's right. But that often applies to a lot of considerations with regard to the lumpsum. One will always be something more of this and the other something more of that. But to make a separate distribution system for 10 million out of 3.5 billion! We have also just made the weighting and said: not too much burden of implementation and not too much bureaucracy around it. And, of course, I say to Mr Bruins too, we are going to monitor that very closely. We're gonna take a really good look at institutions to see if they're gonna work out a little bit with that $10 million. It is, of course, the case that those categories which are entitled under this law cannot be called into question with the argument that the money is running out. Then institutions simply have a duty to finance that. We're gonna check out those legal obligations, too, or we're gonna come up with the $10 million. The first signals are now that it should be possible. Of course, we're just going to see if they're gonna come out with that distribution. I will monitor that very closely and will report to you after a first year. Then I'll tell you what the practice shows. I'm very attached to customization per institution. I'll talk about that later. But it should not be the case that one institution with its share of it is left with a large share of it, while the other institution says: we are not really getting along with this. We need to keep a close eye on that. That's what we're gonna do. However, once again, and I attach great importance to this, we have regulated this in this way in the law because we have also said about the categories that we have regulated in the law: they really have a legal right to a grant from that student fund. We leave institutions fairly free in the way they regulate it exactly and the amount of the compensation. In addition, they must have the approval of participation. But with regard to these categories one cannot say: no, we do not do this. Mr Bruins and Mr Bisschop pointed out that students in the participation are entitled to a grant, but that students in other administrative positions are not mentioned here in other associations, whereas these students are mentioned in the profiling fund and have tried to get as much as possible into the profiling fund. Of course, Mr Bishop and Mr Bruins had a point with their questions. We now see in practice in the MBO that these other categories are quite small groups of students. It may be slightly different from higher education, but it sometimes involves relatively small groups. That is why we have said: we are making this a kind of generic category for which the MBO institution can provide a concession. Mr Bishop says in his amendment that if you are seeking as much access to the profiling fund as possible, do so in full and name these categories here as well. I actually have sympathy for that thought. Mr Bishop thus responds to my thinking that we should put students on the same footing as far as possible. If I am right, that is the amendment to item No. 12. I see Mr Bishop nodding. So that amendment gets judged by me, Chamber. Mr Bruins also asked about the comment that also came from the MBO Council, namely whether schools should now carry out an income test. Is that really a task of an MBO institution? Schools can see for themselves how they're going to do it. I agree with you that this may not be the first job you have in school. But we now have the temporary arrangement of educational resources and we see a number of schools that do this together, for example, with Stichting Leergeld or with the municipality. It's possible. We see just fine examples of that in practice. For this kind of thing, you also have the MBO Council, which allows schools to share these kinds of good examples with each other. If the MBO Council writes me a letter asking me "Mbo institutions don't have to take that income test?" I say: you don't have to, because some of your members have just organized it very well through, for example, that Foundation Leergeld or through cooperation with the municipality. I think it is very good that these good examples are shared. Then there is Mr Bruins' comment on this evaluation. I said we're monitoring that and we'll come back to that after a year. And if it's really very crooked, we'll adjust it. Mr Bruins asks how to ensure that the people who really need it are also reached. That is, of course, always the crucial question in this type of provision. You make a provision for, for example, students with low-income parents. That's what you want to get to. Together with the MBO Council and the JOB we are really looking at what communication is needed and working to have these rights and duties for students and schools as clear as possible for everyone. This can be, for example, in the form of grants for students. It often helps very well to look together with students to see what kind of assistance helps to make students aware that you can use that fund if you have a problem. And according to the law, schools must, of course, make very clear in their policy framework how and under what conditions students can apply. Participation is also involved in the entire development of this fund per institution. At national level, therefore, we involve the JOB and that is participation in the institution. Mrs Kuik asked whether the fund is also accessible to students who are delayed, for example, when they provide care. I'd like to say yes to that. For example, we mention the category of top athletes, but there is also a category that I think we call "special family conditions." Of course, this includes family care. Of course, I would say, so if we change that here, it is also properly recorded in the legal history. Yes. Full-bodied, yes. This also applies to students who are carers. Mrs Kuik also asked what is the minimum amount to be paid. That is the point where we ask the institutions to deliver customization. We do not lay down in the law a minimum amount to be paid. Customized work per student is highly desirable. However, there should be a policy framework per school on what to apply for and how to do it. This should also be done with the agreement of the student council, not only with participation. Because there is tailor-made work per student, we can only narrowly see if there are really big differences. For example, even for different carers, the amount may be different, because there are different circumstances. Privacy legislation also prevents us from monitoring this precisely here, but I do expect that participation will also be on top of this. Mr Van Meenen asked me: have you learned lessons from the profiling fund? Yeah, we do. Mr Bishop is teaching me another lesson. We have looked carefully at which things from the profiling fund work well, which we can actually just take over. That's the financing from the lumpsum. The right of consent of student councils is also very important in this case. Furthermore, I call the space for customization. These are very important elements, which we see working well at the profiling fund. We'll take it from here. About the agreements between students and schools we want to continue talking with JOB and the MBO Council. In the letter from the MBO Council, which I believe you received, the question was whether you are not simply getting very large differences between institutions. I also say to the MBO Council: 'If you are concerned about this, talk to each other about it. You are free to create a kind of model with each other, and say: this is what we, all the MBO settings, like to do. And especially discuss this with the students." I'm giving them the space and the confidence to make sure they come out together. They must communicate well with the students about this. That is actually the answer to Mr Kwint's question: that is why we have opted for a decentralised provision; not because DUO cannot handle it because of its implementation. However, we see that the government has learned important lessons in recent times when it comes to implementation. What is very important here is that you can deliver customization and organise the execution so close to the students that a conversation is possible. Of course they answer the phone at DUO, but these are cases where you have to be able to discuss things with your institution like: I am a caregiver. I've been sick for a while. I have special circumstances. I've done board work and I'm threatening to delay. You also want to see how much delay that delay is. Is there anything we can do in the meantime to limit that delay? How much is the delay? You just need that whole personal contact to make that customization happen. Honestly, I don't think it's wise to say: you'll do that with a phone call to Groningen. That does not seem to me to be the way and I do not think that students there are very much regarded as students whose individual cases are well judged and weighed. But it has nothing to do with: DUO couldn't handle that. That has not been the consideration. But I really think that institutions should look at the student personally. That's what the conversation needs to be about. Then it is not just the question of how can we do it through the fund, but also the question of how can we respond to you in education in a different way? Mr Kwint also asked why I exclude students who receive a basic grant. That also has to do with the following, and there really is a difference between MBO students and students in higher education. Students must borrow when they have used up their basic scholarship. This bill will give them the right to receive compensation from the fund from then on. The basic grant works with MBO students in such a way that it is also possible to cope with your delay within the time limit that you still have a basic grant. That room's in there. Well, then your delay doesn't have to lead to any extra borrowing at all. Your right to compensation from the fund will work when the delay would result in you having to borrow. But you have read it very clearly: who has what rights is in this respect in the MBO and H.O. That's right, it's different. But precisely because the basic grant here works something different than for students, I wanted to avoid it with you, because I believe that this was the purpose of your question, which led to a delay in borrowing students to cope with that delay. This is where we want to prevent it. I therefore believe that the law responds to your objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u108	Thank you for that. I'm gonna go over the law a little more extensively and check it out. But study delay comes in many forms and sizes. It may be a few weeks, but it may also be a longer period. Especially in the case of illness or disability, it is not always possible to tell in advance how much delay it will be. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? If the right to a basic grant expires during the course of the study because of too long duration, the part before that will be considered as the basic grant from that moment on. So that's not guilt. After that, from the moment you need to borrow, you can also claim the student fund. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u109	Yeah, that's how you see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u110	If I see that correctly, I can withdraw my amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u111	Yes. In view of this question, we have drawn up schemes to define precisely in cubes how that all works. It does work that way: if you can absorb it within the time limit of your basic grant, you can, but if delay would lead to you having to borrow, you can claim the fund for your delay. It's a way to keep you from borrowing anyway. That's the use of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u112	For the proper administration, let me make it quite clear that Mr Kwint's amendment to item No. Seven withdraws?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u113	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u114	The quint amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u115	Then there is the final question about the student fund. Mr Bishop asked about the difference between adult and underage and bbl'ers. The fund has three objectives with different target groups. Firstly, it is intended to support educational supplies. There is only the right to support underage bol-students from minimal families. In fact, they do not receive any study funding, and they do not receive any travel product and no remuneration. Other groups, such as adults and B.B. students, may also be assisted by the school on the basis of the hardness clause in educational supplies, but the school is not obliged to do so because they either have study funding or earn wages if they arebl'ers. Support in the event of delay is the second objective of the Fund. You only have the right to do so as a bol-student who no longer has the right to the basic scholarship. I have just explained this to Mr Kwint. They are not entitled to this, for they receive wages, even if they are delayed. On the basis of a hardness clause, the school may support a blb'er if that is really necessary. The third objective is remuneration for participation in student councils. This applies to all students participating in the student council, adult or underage, bulb or bbl'er. Mr President, that was the block of student fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u116	Thank you very much. Before we move on to the next block, there is a question from Mr Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u117	I had the Minister talk to see if my answer was there, but maybe I didn't hear it right. I have two questions. I asked explicitly, because the law simply states that after a year we will evaluate: are we going to evaluate the funding system, namely via the lumpsum? The second question is in response to your commitment to Mr Bishop's amendment. You are going to spend more than the EUR 10 million provided for, because if we continue to join the profiling fund, I assume that more expenditure from the fund will also have to be made. Don't you see any problems there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u118	Mr Bishop's amendment is an explicitation of what could actually be done under the general category e by institutions. We are now making this explicit and, in line with the profiling fund, I think that is a very logical, pure thought of Mr Bishop. This could lead to higher spending. We're adding $10 million to the lump sum. Institutions cannot say: now the money is gone and now the category entitled to it gets nothing. No, then lumpsum applies: then you just take it out of your funding. That's how we do it at the profiling fund. So it is a method that is completely parallel. What we're going to evaluate after a year is exactly what we're going to do about the distribution. Is it sufficient and there are parts of the country that are really lacking? You ask: does that also mean that you are reconsidering the lumpsum at that time? We have to realise that this really requires an amendment of the law, so that should not happen overnight. I would also add that with a lump sum of 3.5 billion, 10 million is a very small part of it. I believe that someone asked: if too much is called upon, can an institution say 'well, then we as an institution do not stand up'? If you divide EUR 10 million among all the MBO institutions, then we all have an idea of the kind of amounts that are involved in institutions. The argument "this really can't come out" is hardly valid. The practice of the profiling fund, as well as the practice of the temporary scheme, does not show that this can cause problems very quickly, but after a year we are going to show you what a year of implementation practice teaches us and whether it will lead to a review somewhere in the parameters of the fund. But about something other than the financing lumpsum I would say: then you really have to do a completely different distribution system for a part of the lumpsum, or you have to pay it in a completely different way, and that is very complicated, so I'm not inclined to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u119	Finalizing, Mr. Smalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u120	Of course, I did not mean the lump sum system at all, but only for this fund. Because the end doesn't justify the means. Of course, it's about achieving the goal. If it turns out that the lumpsum system doesn't fit, I think we should reconsider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u121	Yes, but we have looked very carefully: what do we learn from the profiling fund? We see that this system works well, so I have no reason to believe that it is not going to work properly. But if you have a point you say 'we should do it differently', we'll just talk about it in a year's time. That's what I'm really open to. For I agree with you: it is about the purpose and not about the means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u122	And maybe we'll get to DUO. It could be just like that. The other side of the lumpsumsystematiek is, of course, non-issued resources. I had also asked a specific question about this. We notice here in the Chamber that there is some doubt. I mean, everyone's happy we're getting started, but there's also some doubt as to whether 10 million is enough. Of course, it may also be that 10 million is enough, but not if the institutions do not spend the money they have received, because then it will be at the expense of what would be spent on other students. Are we going to include that in the evaluation? How do we ensure that money intended for vulnerable students, no matter how small the component of the total funding of an MBO institution, does not end up in the bank account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u123	Sure. I have indicated that it is very important for students to know that they can make use of that fund. For example, what we saw in the temporary arrangement, the 10 million, is that it was far from exhausted. I'm not sure, but I can just imagine that's partly because not everyone knows he's entitled to it. That is why it is so important that, after the temporary arrangement, we have just explicitly regulated this in the law, so that there is indeed a legal right for a number of categories. We can then at least communicate to all students through the MBO Council and through JOB: "Beware, your institution must have an arrangement for these and these categories. And if you belong to it, look carefully at the arrangement of your institution, for you are entitled to it." Yeah, I'm gonna take a really good look at it. If there is under-exhaustment at this point, we have to look very closely at it. Then we must either communicate better or look very closely at whether the institutions' regulations are sufficiently generous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u124	Clear and sufficient for Mr Kwint, I see. Then we've just had the first block and we've been on the road for half an hour, so I'm asking the Minister to move on to the second block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u125	It was my thickest package, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u126	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u127	The second thing that regulates this bill is, of course, the measures for pregnant students. That is actually an answer to a question raised earlier by Mr Kwint and the Labour Party. I think that studying and having a child should be able to go together. Now it is true that students too often experience problems when they have a child during study. That is why we now want to make provision in this legislative proposal for an explicit right to leave when you have a child as a student. That's actually the way we do it in a lot of places in society. When I talk to student deans in mbo institutions, I also hear what the strength is. That's what I'd like to say to Mr. Beertema: don't unsubscribe and start again next year, but stay registered, keep the line with the institution and see how you can pick up the study again in the course of the year, so you don't fail. Keeping that line is very important. Pregnancy should also be taken into account as a special circumstance in the binding study advice, as this will delay you. As a result, one cannot say: you do not get your binding study advice. Pregnant students don't just get rights here. I also think that MBO schools should actually do more to answer Mr Bruins' question than just give leave and take it into account in the BSA. What you hope, of course, is that even teenage mothers are often given further support in how they can ensure that they can just get their degree, because in the end it is very much in the interests of those children that these mothers have a degree and will soon be able to stand on their own feet and take care of their child. That's why we also give a grant to the Center for Studying Mothers, precisely to support good practice.There is, for example, a special class in Rotterdam................................................................................................................................................ Mr Kwint asked whether we would also arrange maternity leave for HBO and WE. Unlike in the MBO, there is often no presence obligation in HBO and wo. They can be met within the framework of the profiling fund and also in the context of grants to delayed students. This does not require an explicit right in the law, as here, because you have much less to do with an obligation to be present. There the situation is just something else. Free childcare. I would like to say to Mr Kwint: of course it would be very easy for students, but I have no idea what costs are on the other hand and who will have to pay those costs. I would say: ask my colleague from Social Affairs again at the next opportunity. This is, of course, something that is not free, because free childcare must ultimately be paid by someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u128	That was a lot of answers to asked questions in one block. Let's start with the HBO and the university. It's true you don't have an obligation to be there. But you do have a loan system there, for example, which puts you in serious debt if you have a child. That is exactly the opposite of the discussion we just had. You also used the Minister there just as an argument to introduce it into the MBO. A binding study advice. These are both things that lead to a very difficult situation. You might think that it might be wise to set something like this up with HBOs and universities. Would the Minister reconsider that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u129	No. In fact, I see that HBO and WO institutions have enough room in practice to meet this. For example, at BSA in higher education there is plenty of room to take account of family conditions. I am not aware of any case of a student who has reported that this is not the case. Nor am I in favour of resolving in the law things that are not a problem in practice. Here too, there are opportunities, for example through a profiling fund, to accommodate students who are being delayed. This can also be done in higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u130	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u131	Those possibilities were also available for the MBO. The whole reason why we are talking today about this law and about the establishment of the fund and, for example, that we have specifically included the conditions of maternity leave in the law is that we felt that the concept of generic special circumstances could always be something that happened did not do justice to the circumstances in which pregnant women or young mothers find themselves. That's why we wanted to explicate it. That reasoning is one-on-one for HBO and wo, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u132	No. In the MBO, it's something else. If you've been absent in the MBO for 16 weeks, you've been absent for too long. Well, then you're usually just gonna be written out. In any case, therefore, the risk is high. That's why it's important to make this really different here. That is why, at your request, we have just regulated that well in the law. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the MBO statement. What's that MBO statement for? This is an explanation for the students who, despite a great deal of efforts to obtain their diploma, still fail, for example because they are unable to succeed in that one course, or in those two courses. It is a statement showing which subjects have been successfully completed and what the result was. So the students can show a potential employer something and they can say: I did get this; I didn't get that diploma yet, but I did get this. In the coalition agreement we spoke of a trade certificate. I say to Mrs Kuik that we have chosen the term'mbo declaration' in good coordination with the field, because we already have the certificate for that one subject that you get, for example, as working on the Mbo. We have opted for a terminology that is clear to everyone. Do we still need to make efforts to ensure that it is well known to all? Yeah, I think so. That's what we're gonna do. With this statement of course, you want students to pick up their studies later. It's like the whole ugly term "green pick." You actually want employers to assume their responsibilities when it comes to lifelong development. Whether it's because the labour market is very tight or because a student in a school just didn't move forward and comes along with a statement: take responsibility and make sure that the MBO remains fit for the labour market, even in the long term, and that he can get his entire diploma. I understand very well that some of you are expressing the concern that such an MBO statement will lead to an increasing number of students leaving school without a diploma. We're really gonna be on top of that in the monitoring. But I also say to you: students at levels 2, 3 and 4 of course receive part of their funding on the basis of the number of graduates. So there is also an incentive for them to ensure that as many students as possible get that diploma. So, yeah, we're gonna monitor it. For the institutions, there is an incentive for funding to ensure that the diploma is passed. And let us all, whether it is green picking or people with an MBO declaration, continue to appeal to employers and to our efforts to ensure that young people still get that full starting qualification. But we're gonna take a good look at that, and we're gonna monitor that very closely. Mr Smals explicitly asked for this. What I really want to do is, as soon as that MBO statement comes into effect, really monitor it and come back to you after a year to see how many of those statements are actually being issued and what happens there. If we see unwanted things happening there, we must dare to take a critical look at them with each other. But the main aim of the instrument is to allow students, who are sometimes also frustrated by the fact that they are unable to do so, to enter the labour market with a little support. That's what we're supposed to do in the end. Because for some students it may also be very good that they are first active in that labour market for a while. So we're gonna monitor that every year. Mr Beertema asked: why then the pilots, if we are already going to settle it in the law? In those pilots, we mainly tested the model. That has proved to be workable. They haven't been applied very much, because you can see in these kinds of things that one is a little reluctant when it's not generically arranged. But the model turns out to be workable. We will also continue to see how we can communicate widely for which the MBO declaration is and is not intended. Mr. Chairman. Concerns have also been expressed by the MBO Council on feasibility. I also think that in a letter to your Chamber they have said: you can now issue an institution statement, but we actually do that manually; our systems are not quite ready to have such an MBO statement roll out of the system completely automatically at a time when a student would be entitled to it. I'm still talking to the sector about that. We are also going to see what is the most desirable introduction period for this. Personally, I say 'as soon as possible', but I also see the concerns of the sector. We're gonna talk about this very quickly. If August 2020 is really not workable for the sector, then I will come back to you as soon as possible and let you know what the time is when we introduce it. Mrs Kuik had asked what the content of the MBO declaration is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u133	Before you do that, a question from Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u134	If the MBO Council has already made this complaint, it expects, of course, that the MBO declaration will be applied for on a substantial scale. I understand that it cannot be done manually and that all digital systems need to be set up on it. Then I'm already holding my heart. The Minister now highlights the bright side: lifelong learning and so on. Of course, there is no doubt that these schools, those rocks, have a financial incentive not to do too much. But those students also have an incentive. They often think differently from you and me. They think, "I can't master this job." Why is that? Maybe there's a bad teacher in front of the class. Maybe there are personal circumstances that make it impossible. But they go as far as they say: yes, I want a nice life too, I'm not going to bother myself with this; just do the MBO statement, then I'll get there too. That's gonna happen so much that it's gonna have to be adapted even in those digital systems. This means that this kind of student with less motivation gets a huge incentive to say: well, never mind the whole qualification?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u135	Mr Bertema has a huge glass ball that I don't have. We also see now that students in their training are often very good in a number of things, but get frustrated because one or two subjects do not want to succeed. Those students are gonna drop out and leave the MBO without a trace. They are becoming more vs'er and need to get it out of the labour market without any support. What we want to do with this is give them something in their pocket. This has to do with students self-confidence and support: you get a statement from what you did get and you can show it to an employer. We all know that a real and full degree is still the best guarantee on a job, especially in times when things are getting worse. I also expect students to be well aware of this in education. We really need to keep students getting the hang of that. I certainly agree with you. What matters to me and also to the declaration of the institution, is that we do not send students who have achieved a lot of things, a lot of things and have worked hard to do so home empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u136	In conclusion, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u137	I think this is so defeatist. That defeatism is poured with a sauce of positivism: those one or two subjects; they get so frustrated, leafiebla. This is just a weakness offer, I'd like to hand over the minister. If there are problems, you will work hard as a school or mentor to get those one or two subjects in order. Why do we do that with an MBO degree or MBO degree and not with a driving test, for example? I can drive forward very well, very hard, but I can't turn left, because I can't control that. I can't park back either. Well, I guess you'd better give me a driving licence. There's no such thing, is there? In this way, we deal so easily with the internal weakness of pedagogy in those schools. And then we're going to formalize that even legally by giving something as complicated as an MBO statement for the students who simply can't do something. I would say: just go hard on it and do everything you can to get those one or two boxes instead of those students, because that's it, with some kind of partial diploma, that doesn't have any civil effect. I find it too defeatist and too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u138	I agree with Mr Beertema that schools must do everything in their power to ensure that students do pass these courses. But we also know the stories of a lot of vs'ers that it just snapped on that. That just gives a lot of students frustration. Your comparison with half a driver's license is, of course, totally flawed. With half a driving licence you are probably a danger on the road, while these students with an MBO certificate in pocket are of great value to society. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u139	You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u140	I was in the process of answering Mrs Kuik's question as to what such an MBO statement is. This is of course different per student, but it can consist of the following elements: of course the examination result, the results of the professional practice formation, other results and other results obtained by the student during the course, such as progress tests or industry certificates. The results list is an annex to the MBO declaration containing the exam results of the courses that the student has passed. The institutions still have doubts as to whether they will be able to roll it out of the systems by 1 August 2020. So we are still in agreement with them on this. Mrs Kuik also asked if, if you go into the labour market with such an MBO statement, you can still get the diploma by stacking EVCs. You can't do that all the time, because you can't get all the boxes by stacking EVCs. Where an evc can be valuable, it can be. But I honestly don't think it's gonna work out as a rule. We have to be careful to imagine that, because it won't be that easy. That way, you won't pass an English or chemistry exam. In some cases it will be possible, but not by far in all cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u141	So it may be that you finished some of your MBO education and you followed an Evc and then you can stack it up, if I understand it correctly. This may not entirely lead to the final goal, the starting qualification, but it can be placed on top of the piece you have already done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u142	When it comes to language and calculation requirements, it's not gonna be him. We just need to be clear about that. But of course sometimes it could be that you already have a complete mbo-statement and then you could stack via an evc. In that sense, I wouldn't say too easily: in all cases, that's how it works. No, in most cases that's probably not gonna be him, but in some cases it is. This is it with regard to the MBO declaration. Once again, I understand the concerns that have been expressed. We must keep a close eye on the fact that it does not lead to undesirable effects, and we will be on top of that. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the school fees scheme, the scheme for unused school materials. We've established that with each other before. With the MBO and the JOB we have developed a model that should meet the school costs. I have also stated earlier that I share your view that MBO schools should not prescribe teaching materials that are not subsequently used. There are already about 15 MBO schools that have an arrangement to simply pay back unused teaching material. In addition, there are institutions that focus on preventing them from being prescribed. Actually, the most ideal route is that what doesn't need to be used, just isn't put on the list anymore. There is currently an evaluation of how that service document costs school. It'll be in the Chamber before the summer. On the basis of that evaluation, I am prepared to look into the need for further regulation. But before the summer, we'll have that outcome. Are you sure you're okay with the school fees? Ideally, it simply should not be prescribed strictly what is not necessary. And if it does, you have to make sure that there is a proper financial arrangement. So before the summer, you'll hear what's going on with that. That was also the answer to Mr Kwint's question on the implementation of the El Yassini/Kwint motion. Then I come to the internship discrimination. It is good that Mr Van den Berge is bringing this up, because we must all remain on top of this. I think it is at this time when you hear employers everywhere complaining about being cut off on the labour market, once again a gatspe that we still hear that there are students who simply don't get an internship because of their last name, first name or zip code. We should actually use all the means we can to prevent that from happening. And Mr Van den Berge asked: you indicate that many students indicate that they find such a report difficult at the SBB because it is a bit far away, and JOB is also working on a hotline; can we not make it much easier for students to report it, for example via an app? I'd be happy to do that with students. Mrs Kuik pointed that out too. You have to do that with students themselves, because before we do that and develop it, I'd like to know if they're going to download that app in case they have a notification. Not everyone will automatically put such an app on their phone. So if this is a good cure, I'd like to discuss it. If it turns out to be a good tool, I am also happy to have it developed, because with you, I believe that we should all continue to do so by all means we have. And if I may do it again in this Chamber over your heads, I would like to say the following to employers. We are all so united that we still tend to choose people who are the most like ourselves. Sometimes this is unconscious, sometimes it is conscious, but we only build bridges in this society and we only ensure that everyone can participate if we are willing to involve and include those who may look a little less like ourselves. That's what I'm asking employers to do. And that's what it's all about internships, because especially with these young people, you often break their dreams, and it leads to a lot of frustration in society. So I'd like to get on with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u143	A question from Mr Smalls. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u144	Yes, Mr. Chairman. The VVD fully agrees with the rejection of discrimination; that seems to me to be an open door. But could the Minister give an estimate of what such an app is going to deduct from the problem of internship discrimination? Does she think that it really matters, or that it's just a drop on the glowing plate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u145	Let us be honest: an app is not going to wipe out the problem to the bottom and to the root. But we can see that Mrs Kuik and Mr Van den Berge are right to have a point that we have very few reports. And that's when, when you sit on such an MBO setting and ask a question, you hear the stories everywhere; and they really aren't out of your mind. So in order to get a really good view of the issue, to be able to talk about it, to get a look at where this is happening, we need those reports. And if an app like that helps to get more reports, that's a tool we can use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u146	Enough? That's the case. Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u147	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A beautiful, passionate story from the Minister. And I appreciate the commitment; good also to do this together with students. I would like to add: I think it would be a good idea to include SBB and perhaps even the inspection. But I will leave that to the Minister, because in addition to collecting these reports, it is of course also important that there is an action perspective, that there can be action. I would like to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u148	Yes. I have a meeting table with all the parties. That's where JOB, the Human Rights College, SBB, the MBO Council and VNO-NCW are at the table. I think it is good to discuss how we can ensure that it is organised so that it also offers opportunities and points of reference for action. Mr Van den Berge also asked about the mystery guests. I have indeed spoken about this with Mr Van Ark. It is the SZW Inspection which supervises labour discrimination, including internship discrimination. The use of mystery guests can be effective. But you also understand that a certain restraint is appropriate in this respect, because this can also provoke things, or lead to misinterpretations of what has been said and done in matching. The inspection SZW is currently carrying out an investigation into what can and cannot be done during the inspection with the use of mystery elements. In the next progress report Action Plan on labour market discrimination, the SZW Secretary of State will report to you on which elements of this will be used by the inspection. So we're working on that right now. In the budget, we also had a debate on internship discrimination. I have also promised Mr Van den Berge to return to the diversity coaches. On 6 March this week, therefore, the MBO Council will organise an exploratory session on this subject. Experts from the field are present, including people from the SBB, the Human Rights College and JOB, and schools and researchers. Later this spring, before the AO on the MBO on June 10th, I will report to you on how we give hands and feet to this. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the internship fee. I think it is very important with Mr Van den Berge that young people, students, who are internships, receive compensation for this. You know what I said before about the difference between MBOs, HBOs and wo'ers. An internship allowance is an expense allowance. It's not about salary. That is why we, as the Empire, have said that we are equalizing the internship fee for all students. You ask whether there should be a right to an internship allowance, to a reasonable remuneration. You also say that it may be different, depending on the company or institution where your internship takes place, but that it must be a reasonable fee, which meets the extra expenses a student has to incur in order to take that internship. You have tabled an amendment on this subject, item No. 13, if I'm right. That's what I'm judging, Room. I think it's a good thing we have that right for students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u149	I see a question from Mr Van den Berge. The amendment in part No. 13 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u150	That's good, so I don't have a question about that. It is, of course, nice that this judgment gets Chamber. When it was just about internship discrimination, the Minister made a strong appeal to employers. I would like the Minister to do the same for an internship fee, so just make a call. I would be delighted if there would be an appropriate internship fee, so that the Minister, in addition to giving the "judge chamber" to the amendment, would make that appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u151	I already did that before you called me to it. I think I did that in front of a camera somewhere yesterday. It still has to be broadcast somewhere. But I'll keep making that call. If, at a time like this, in which the labour market is so tight, by offering a good internship fee you can bring in a student who will be your employee, aren't you crazy if you don't offer an internship fee? It's about expenses. I also said something about it in the debate on teachers. I also see schools that don't give internships to pabo students. Let me put it this way: you're not doing well. So, in general, I say to employers: of course a student is still learning, but students often incur costs for their internship, so meet that. This also ties the employee of the future to you. You make a good impression as an employer right away. We also know that students and beginners in the labour market look very closely at what attractive employers are in these areas. I say to employers: the way you deal with trainees counts. So thank you for the question. Mr. Chairman. Another point, which is also about the fixing of fees, is the question, but also, in my view, the amendment, of the amendment, if I see it correctly, Van den Berge and Smals. Is that right? This is about a minimum fee. You want a hook in the law. I hear Mr Smals saying: and Kuik. Excuse me. It has changed the current debate from time to time so that my administration is no longer correct in all respects. But you're very enthusiastic about it. Coincidentally, so am I. You want a hook in the law, so that, should it prove necessary, the Minister can arrange a minimum level of remuneration for participation. We now say in the law that it is basically customization. I love that very much, because it's not the same everywhere. But you say: while we are working on the law, create a hook so that if you are dissatisfied, you can make an arrangement. Thanks for the hook and I'll give the amendment judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u152	The amendment in part No. 14: Judgment Room. Before you go any further, is there another question, or are you almost at the end of this block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u153	I was through the cubes anyway. I was working on what I always call "varia."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u154	Okay. A question from Mr Smalls, if I see it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u155	Yes, chairman, about the internship fee. The Minister speaks in one sentence about the internship allowance and about people who are new to the labour market. I would like to support the idea that an internship allowance is fundamentally different from an employment relationship. I hope that you agree with me and also that we should not mix that with each other. The moment we start paying people who just have an employment relationship as interns, we have a completely different problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u156	Clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u157	Sure. That is why I started my answer with: an internship fee is not a wage but a remuneration for expenses incurred. You have a point. That is a very striking difference. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions about the deregistration, I think, of Mr Bishop. What about the deregistration of students and, for example, the OB fines? With you, I believe that MBO students should know very well when they will be signed out as students. The unsubscription date determines when you no longer have the right to a student travel product, for example. That is why we have called on the MBO institutions several times to better inform students about the time of their registration date and how, for example, you stop a student travel product. In recent years, we have seen a significant fall in the number of fines on that point. We also see that the institutions are doing better in this respect. There was talk of a number of cases, you mentioned one of the ones where something had happened with retroactive effect, if I recall correctly. Could you give me that case? We do not have the signal, but I believe that it should not be allowed. If things like this are still possible, we need to see how we solve it. I would ask Mr Bisschop to turn over to me the cases from which he draws these questions. Then we'll walk them off and see how we can fit a sleeve to that. When I hear it like that, I think it's undesirable. Mr Van den Berge had another question about the practical routes. Are they going to stay or not? They have been announced in the proposal for a strong vocational education, which I believe is already in this Chamber. So that's what we're going to talk about very soon in this Chamber. I see the clerk nodding, so you'll see me soon for that. In my opinion, Mrs Kuik and Mr Smals asked what progress was made on the adoption of the Kuik/Westerveld motion on the adaptation of the WHW and the WEB for students with disabilities or chronic illness. We are currently in the process of carrying out that motion with an inventory. I also said at the time that we need to figure it out properly. I expect you to be able to put this back before the new academic year, so that we can make the desired pace. Mr. Chairman. Mr Beertema asked if it was a semantic discussion. I went into that at first. I often think that words matter, even here. I'd say ask the students. Yes, words matter to them here. Mr Beertema also had a question about the expiry of the further training requirements. It goes from something that has to go to a can-determine. Why do we do that? If an institution thinks it is necessary, it can still do it, but we see that more and more training courses opt for a different form, for example, further training courses during the academic year. I want to leave the MBO the room to find the right shape for that. I do not agree with Mr Beertema that by definition it would be about unmotivated students who let you do something. No, it's also about leaving your settings the room to choose the customization that they think is appropriate for a flow-through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u158	Yes, I understand that, but that possibility is already there. So my question is: what does this legal intervention change to the existing situation? What problem is being solved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u159	That we go from a must-determine to a can-determine. That is a real difference. In practice, we saw that some institutions thought: yes, it says in the law that we have to, but we do not. And I always think it's nice that the law and practice are somewhat parallel. This also really meets the desire of education to regulate things differently. Mr Van Meenen had asked about the flow within the MBO. We say yes, a student should be admitted if he meets the requirements. Mr Van Meenen said: yes, but even if a student passes through the MBO, no thresholds should be set for that. I agree with him. Indeed, signals from JOB show that some students have the experience that additional questions will be asked during the intake. We shouldn't want that with each other. I'm talking to JOB about their complaints reporting on this point. It contains these signals. Soon you will also receive a letter from me on the monitoring of the right of admission, in which we will also comment on these signals surrounding the intake. If necessary, we will see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u160	That's good to hear. I would like to ask the Minister, even now that we know that the practices of these capacity tests are still taking place, to remind the institutions and the MBO Council as well as the students that this is a practice that cannot be done. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u161	Like I said, I'm gonna take a good look at that complaint report from the JOB. I'm gonna have a good conversation with that. Because, look, capacity tests can sometimes also be useful in the context of a good conversation with a student and in checking whether an education fits well with someone. But before I make a very generic statement here, I would like to take a very close look at what we are getting out of that report from the JOB. I really want to report on that more precisely in a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u162	Clear. Finalizing, Mr. Van Meenen? No, it's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u163	Mr. Chairman. Then I think I need the last question. Mr Kwint had asked: "In this law we are now dealing with a number of things in the education agreement, but we are about to abolish them. What's the deal?" That is a very good question; you have clearly seen it. We are coming up with the bill to improve the legal status and legal protection of MBO students... No, sorry. We will come up with a legislative proposal that regulates the rights that are now included in the ALSO in the student statute. In doing so, we are actually transferring everything that is now regulated through the ALSO to the law. That's what we're doing now. It might have been good if it had been a bit more parallel, because then it might have been a bit more clear, but of course we're going to transfer that one-on-one. So don't worry about that. Mr President, I am at the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u164	Except for one question, and then my administration is right. I am still missing the opinion on the amendment to item No. 10. Did you give it to him by now? Did I miss that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u165	Yes, that is the amendment in part No. 10 by Mr Smals on the reimbursement of unused educational supplies. That's gonna get judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u166	Thank you. The amendment in part No. 10 gets judgment room. Then there is a question from Mr Kwint. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u167	Yeah, I was kind of doubting if it would pass in a later block, so it's a point from a long time ago. This was about what the money for, for example, support for disabled students is spent on. However, we must ensure that it does not go to generic modifications of the building, because that should simply be part of the general accessibility policy. It's really about specific individual needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u168	Sure. The fund really is about meeting students who are delayed, for example because they have a limitation. It is not intended to make a physical adjustment to the building. Let's be very clear about that. That wouldn't be nice. Then I would also be concerned about the adequacy of the 10 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u169	Thank you very much. Then we have reached the end of the first term of office. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. That's the case. I shall then be the first to give the floor to Mr Smalls. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u170	Mr President, thank you. Of course, I will not miss the opportunity to take a second term too, now that I am allowed to stand here for the first time. Thank you to the colleagues. I am very looking forward to the coming time and I have already enjoyed the recent time. I have expressed my concerns about the evaluation of the fund. If I have heard correctly, the Minister said that the funding system, which we may have some doubts about, will be reflected in the evaluation. If that happens and if that evaluation is negative, we have a very long way to go to fix it, but well, we'll see about that. Finally. The colleague of the SP, Kwint, rightly remarked that "green picking" is not such a good word. I've been brainstorming to come up with another word for this. Future robbery? Early cape? Student robbery? Young robbery? I don't know, but maybe others can make more suggestions about this in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u171	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van den Berge for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A nice debate, as far as I am concerned; content and with many promises from the Minister. It is good to hear that I know this minister too, that she wants to tackle internship discrimination vigorously and that she is also in favour of developing a low-threshold app together with students and SBB. I have a motion on that to strengthen that a little bit. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that MBO students with a non-Western background are too often confronted with internship discrimination;]] [[whereas in the meantime there are several hotlines of internship discrimination, but the threshold for reporting or reporting to students remains high;]] [[Whereas students can benefit from a more accessible and identifiable way of reporting internship discrimination;]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with MBO students, to develop an app where students can report (suspected) internship discrimination in an accessible manner and link this app to the SBB hotline, so that a good picture of the nature and extent of internship discrimination among MBO students can emerge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u173	We have talked extensively about strengthening control in the MBO. I am pleased that the broadly supported amendment has been given Chamber's judgement. I would like to add another motion. It contains an idea of a student council member himself. When I spoke to him recently in Nieuwegein, I asked him: what can we do to strengthen control? He said: wouldn't it be interesting to see if we could introduce a "control" option? That can have two advantages. One: through that part of the choice, the time you put into control can count indirectly for your studies. Two: you can offer specific training via that part of your choice, for example on reading budgets or on writing a proposal. I'm looking at the clock. I think I should just read the motion. Here he comes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that strengthening control can make an important contribution to the position of MBO students;]] [[Whereas control currently has no permanent place within the quality requirements of MBO training;]] [[Whereas electives now account for about 15% of the total MBO training;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with JOB, SBB and MBO Council, to establish frameworks for a choice within which control is a specific focus area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u174	I am a huge fan of strengthening participation, but I just want to make sure that we are doing the same here. Now this motion is actually saying: if you are in the participation of an MBO, you can go along with a choice. I think that is already quite vulnerable, because then you will also get an opinion on the extent to which you are well aware of the rules on participation and so on. For example, you want to vote against the budget. Yeah, maybe that'll get you an "F." I think that's a vulnerability. But the second vulnerability is perhaps also that here the responsibility of the institution board to ensure that students are well prepared for their work in participation is now shifted to the student himself. How does the petitioner view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u175	I don't really see that first risk. The motion asks the Minister to work out the frameworks together with, among other things, JOB. Then I think you can work that out in such a way that it will not lead to dependence in your assessment. For example, reading education budgets is easy to examine without being related to what you bring into the student council itself. So I see that risk Mr Van Meenen is presenting here, quite frankly, not so. I do not see the risk of shifting responsibility from the institution to the choice part either, quite frankly, because there is, of course, a responsibility for the institution to properly prepare and keep members of the student council informed where this can and should be done. So I don't really see how such a choice would lead to a shift in responsibilities. It's just an extra backup. It's an extra offer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u176	Clear. Finalizing, Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u177	Yeah, it's an offer. That's one way of looking at it. But that is also an offer that you can put next to you. And what does that mean? You're in co-determination, you'll have the opportunity to take control of your institution. And you don't, because you'd rather learn a little bit more about.I know a lot about French or German or motor vehicle technology. What does that mean? Then you get: "We're sitting here with a council member who clearly didn't follow that part of the choice." That's the kind of discussion you're gonna have. Well, I'm a little worried about that. I understand that we will not be able to agree on this in this short time, but that was something I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u178	In conclusion, Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u179	I don't think we'll agree on that. It's called a choice for a reason. And indeed, it's possible that if you're studying automotive engineering, you'd really like to do a hydrogen choice. This motion does not say: you must do that part of control when you are on the participation council. But it can be offered to you if this motion is passed and executed. And that seems very desirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u180	Let me make this clear before we, as a group, discuss the motion. I thought that Mr Van den Berge would make a glowing speech in the first place about the funding, the remuneration that students receive for participation in participation. I understand Mr Van den Berge's wish to offer a piece of professionalism. But how does that relate to the first-term plea to offer real compensation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u181	Honestly, I don't see that tension, because I think they can go hand in hand. That real compensation you want to offer for the time people put in it, because it can be at the expense of, for example, a side job. In addition, I think you can make an offer of, for example, education in reading a budget, writing an initiative proposal, arguing or decision-making processes. I don't think it contradicts one another. I think they can go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u182	Finalizing, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u183	I believe that reading a budget and so on and so on and so on should be part of the professionalism of the member of the participation council. If I understand you correctly, then you and the educational honor that a student is a member of the participation council. He is therefore offered the professionalisation course, and that counts. You want to honor that financially. I think that's double-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u184	I think that can be quite a combination. The motion calls for frameworks to be worked out, so this can also be a question that comes up. It may be that Mr Bishop means: aren't you going to count double for hours, so that you get them both reimbursed and they count in a share of choice? Yeah, that's a real point, but that's typical of what I think you can work out in those frameworks. Then that question still stands, and Mr Van Meenen asked me that it is a part of the choice, so you can't choose it either. That could mean, for example, that you are entitled to a higher remuneration if you put more personal time in it. These are all things that I think you can work out in contexts. I don't want to fill that out from here. I only think it is desirable to see if such a part of the choice can be developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u185	I have a question about the development of the app. Mr. Van den Berge suggests that. That is, of course, sympathetic, but we also agree that this is not the solution to all internship discrimination issues, I think. But in order to be able to weigh costs and benefits a little bit: do you have any idea what that will cost? And if there are charges, how do you plan to pay them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u186	For a moment, I thought Mr. Smalls would come for the green picking. I don't think I can get past that right now, so I'm still breaking my head about that. I don't know exactly how much the app is gonna cost right now. We do think, however, that by doing it together with the students, we can also explicitly keep costs low in the operative part of the motion. I can imagine that, for example, you also use MBO students ICT for this and that you can partly build on existing apps. So I think this should be quite cost-effective, but I'm gonna put that away before the fist. It is of course up to the Minister, when she talks with the parties mentioned in the motion, to make a real assessment of this, but I think it should be possible to do so very cost-effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u187	I thought I'd wait my turn nicely, but now we have to go back to participation. I had another question about that. In fact, I am always blind to any proposal that strengthens participation. But that is precisely because that is a counterpower, because that is a group of people who are kicking those drivers into the shin when those drivers do not do what is in the interest of the institution or of the teachers and students. But what if you're gonna teach that? Next thing you know, a driver's gonna teach it himself, or he's gonna put a teacher there. Do you see the problem? It's about organizing counterpower in an institution. Then there's some kind of contradiction when you give the institution the responsibility to turn it into some kind of profession and put someone there who's gonna teach it. Does Mr Van den Berge see this tension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u188	There may be a contradiction in that, but I think that is very much in the process. That contradiction would be there, of course, even if Mr Van Meenen were to put the board of the institution before the classroom in a part of the choice. It seems to me quite unrealistic that this is going to happen and that they are going to give those lessons themselves. But these are typical things, in my opinion, that make checks and balances and ensure that there is no dependence that I think you could work out perfectly in those contexts. So I do not think it is a law of Medes and Persians that there would be that contradiction, but he could be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u189	Finalizing, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u190	Yeah, I wonder. Education within an institution shall be provided under the responsibility of the competent authority, of the administration of an institution. So also the subject of participation or the "check your driver" or the box "is your driver more behind the rags" is given under the responsibility of the same board. So I think it's more than a real risk. Does Mr Van den Berge not think that this is almost embedded in the structure of a choice as he now suggests?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u191	No, I think I have faith in MBO teachers and administrators in that sense. I do not believe that drivers, because they are afraid of counterpower, will go so far as to actively influence the content of such a choice. That is, in fact, almost what Mr Kwint is hinting at. Again, if such a driver himself would be in front of the class, I can imagine that might happen unconsciously, but I assume that a teacher will just give this course. Anyway, that's all how you work this out in the boxes. I don't see that risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u192	Clear. Finally, a very brief question from Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u193	One more question came to my mind: isn't it just mustard after the meal? The choice comes at the end of the training. If you really want people to get involved in participation, it should take place much earlier in the training process. How does the author view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u194	That's a good question. I do not think it is mustard after the meal, because I think it is never too late to strengthen participation. There are all kinds of students who become active in participation in the study just later. So I don't think it has to be mustard after dinner. I note that a lot of assumptions are made in the debate, while the motion simply asks: talk about it, see if it is realistic and work out frameworks for it. I like debate, so that's fine. If it comes from the discussions that it is very undesirable, that the risks do not outweigh the benefits and that it does not succeed in working out the frameworks, that can also be a result. But I think it's an interesting idea and I think it should be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u195	Clear. I think it has been said and exchanged enough. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u196	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u197	Thank you very much and I would like to give Mrs Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u198	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the clear answer. I fully agree with her: words matter and appreciation for professionals in the MBO is justified and necessary. Thank you also for the clear answer to the issue of students who are delayed by family care. This is meant for them, too. On the issue of internship discrimination, Mr van GroenLinks has just tabled a motion. Finally, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is not necessarily clear to employers what steps an employee has to take without a starting qualification to obtain his or her diploma;]] [[Whereas the various certificates, certificates and diplomas currently issued by MBO institutions often make it unclear to employers the value of a certificate, certificate or even diploma;]] [[calls on the Government to establish frameworks to ensure that the MBO declaration gives a concrete indication of which parts of the training have already been completed and also of the possibilities for obtaining an MBO certificate;]] [[calls on the Government to go, in consultation with the MBO Council, VNO-NCW and SME Netherlands, to clarify the differences between certificates, declarations and diplomas and to inform the Chamber before 1 September 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Smals. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u199	I don't mind interrupting Mrs. Kuik, but I don't have anything to interrupt, so I don't want to interrupt. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the clear and full answer. I also thank her staff for preparing this solid bill. I had a motion in preparation, but it is not necessary, because the Minister has made a clear commitment that after a year of evaluation she intends to examine how the distribution of resources will work and whether it will end up adequately where it is most necessary. So that's noted. I also welcome the attention given by the Minister to the situation of young mothers who decide to give their child the best by continuing their training. This means that I can only say that I am moving on to the order of the day, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u200	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Beertema for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u201	Mr. Chairman. I am full of saying that I thank the Minister for her answers to the questions. It didn't do me much good. The law didn't convince me. There is too much emphasis on the fact that the MBO is one great sadness circus. It can't be that. My consideration of voting against this law in advance is, in fact, only strengthened by this meeting. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u202	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Meenen. Mr Kwint is right that all kinds of discussions are taking place behind the scenes, I see. But it's time for your contribution now, Mr. Van Meenen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u203	Mr. Beertema is a superb, fine man, but he just doesn't understand a thing. No, Mr President, to reassure you, we are very much in favour of it. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her comprehensive, full reply. I have two more things I would like to raise. My first point concerns the capacity test as a selection tool in the MBO. I also had an exchange of views with the Minister in an interrupting debate. That's just an improper remedy. It is, of course, fine that the Minister will also discuss the flow with JOB, but I would actually like to ask her not to do so in the form of a motion, but I would ask her to make a commitment to remind the institutions of the fact that that is simply wrong. Whether there is a conversation with JOB or not, as a means of selection it is improper. I understand very well that it is useful to get a good idea of the opportunities of students and so on, but in the end it is up to the student to determine whether he will continue. Here it is used to actually stop the student. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether she would like to remind the institutions, the MBO Council, but also the students that this is the case. On the second point, I have tabled a motion before. I want to do that again. It is a subject that has been raised in detail by my group in particular. It concerns the equal position of the MBO student in relation to colleagues in higher education. I would like to table the next motion on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a change of law in the Chamber to strengthen the position of the MBO student in the law and to align it with that of the student in higher education;]] [[Whereas MBO students in society are not regularly treated in the same way as higher education students, for example with student discounts and access to entertainment venues;]] [[calls on the Government to raise awareness of the student's equal status by actively informing organisations such as the VNG, the SME Netherlands, VNO-NCW, VH, VSNU and others,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u204	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the Minister for the answers. I'm glad we're getting started. I had a motion in preparation to include something immediately in the evaluation, namely whether it might not be better to become a central fund, but I thought: let's start first. The Minister doesn't shut all kinds of doors in case things have to be better. So we're gonna talk about this in a year and we're gonna see how it starts. By the way, I have also withdrawn an amendment, so I will... It saves the fact that most of my group is in Amsterdam tonight, so they are not watching! Then there is a point that we do not agree on, because of course it does not remain a party: maternity leave at HBO and university. The arguments have changed, but we simply disagree. There is also a binding study opinion. There is more and more debt in the event of a delay in study due to that maleized loan system. There is an obligation to be present for a whole bunch of subjects. The Minister says that a lot is already needed within institutions. That's right. That is arbitrary and that is exactly why we decided at the MBO to regulate this centrally. That is why we are now taking a first step, which, by the way, is fairly mildly formulated in the spirit of the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the right to maternity leave for students in the MBO is now enshrined in this law;]] [[Whereas pregnant students and young mothers in higher education experience similar problems;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to identify what is needed to allow maternity leave in higher education, and to inform the Chamber before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u205	The motion was co-signed by Mrs Van den Hul, who could not be present tonight, but of course as a spiritual mother of the proposal for the mbo's should not be missing under the motion. The second point is childcare. The Minister refers me to the Secretary of State for Childcare. I sometimes have debates with that. I'm sure if I start asking her about such a small group of people, she'll refer me back to this minister. We have a proposal for that. We want to leave it open whether it is something that should be settled immediately from The Hague or whether it is done in consultation with the municipalities, which often already have a regulation on childcare costs at minimums, but we do think it is important that this be resolved. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the amount of the allowance for the own contribution varies from one municipality to another;]] [[Whereas the study allowance for students with a medical disability has been levelled;]] [[considers that for the amount of the allowance it should not matter which municipality you live in;]] [[calls on the cabinet, in consultation with municipalities, to ensure that all MBO students are reimbursed for their own contribution to childcare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35252-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u206	Mr Smalls was looking for another alternative to green picking. I hadn't gotten any further than big-capital looting myself, but I don't know if the VVD and we're gonna agree on that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u207	Thank you very much for your input. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Bishop for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Yeah, he stays as red as a kroot, that Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u209	But, of course, that's what he was chosen for. I would like to join in the appreciation of colleagues in thanking the Minister for his reply, according to good parliamentary practice. We were hesitant about this proposal, because we thought it was a little incomplete and unripe, as I said in my speech. The opinions on the amendments have removed a number of hesitations. There are still a few points I would like to discuss with the group, so I cannot yet promise the Minister that she can count on the undivided support of the SGP. We are going to consider that. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u210	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. I assume we can proceed immediately, knowing the Minister. She doesn't have all the motions yet, but let's start slowly. I'll take the last motion coming her way, too. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u211	Yes, Mr President, thank you, also for the second-term contributions. I must say, you may find it worse in such a debate. Mr Kwint withdraws an amendment and a motion. Mr Bishop says that I cannot yet count on the undivided support of his group, but perhaps on the divided support: well, then I have some. To Mr Beertema, I must say that some missions require you to acknowledge that they were unopposed. Thank you for the debate, even in the second term. There are a number of motions and one more question. Mr Van den Berge and Mrs Kuik wanted to support me with a motion on a hotline for internship discrimination. That motion will be judged by Chamber. That seems logical to me, given the change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u212	The motion in part No. 15 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u213	Then the motion to part No. 16 on the part of choice with regard to control. I must honestly say that I have also listened to the debate in your Chamber with some surprise. I'd like to correct a few things. You don't always do choices at the end of your education. You can do that before. There is an option available called "Influence and participation in organizations." I've just established that. With this part of the choice, the novice professional acquires knowledge and skills regarding participation in organisations, because you also hope that the MBO who will soon enter professional practice will be able to work actively with participation. This is about presenting, meeting, negotiating and exercising formal and informal influence, about everything that comes into participation. The WEB states that a part of the choice should be part of vocational training and should aim at broadening or deepening the qualifications to which it belongs or should focus on moving on to further training. Choices aimed at participation therefore focus on the professional practice that will be introduced in the near future. That's what those choices are for. But the knowledge and skills you gain with it, of course, you can also use them during your education. That is learning and applying it in practice at the same time. At the moment, the part of choice I have identified is linked to a number of qualifications at level 4. Schools in need of this can make a couple's request to SBB to enable that choice to be made in the case of more qualifications. I'd like to invite schools to do that. I'm also gonna see if we can bet such an option on level 2 and level 3. I ask Mr Van den Berge if I can understand his motion as follows. We are not going to specifically focus such a part of the choice on participation during the training, because that is actually a bit of an improper use of the part of the choice. But we can focus on the fact that there will be choices at all levels that equip the student to participate, to organise contradictions, to meet properly and to read budgets in his professional practice later. This is also of great value during training. In this way, I want to discuss these choices, including with the field, and see if we can develop them more broadly. If I get that space in the execution of his motion, I'll give her judgment Chamber. I see Mr Van den Berge nodding, so I assume that's a yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u214	I see that Mr Van den Berge comes forward and confirms...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u215	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u216	Thank you. Then the motion gets to part No. 16 with the explanation of the Minister's ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u217	Then the motion at No. 17 by Mrs Kuik. He says, "Make sure everyone knows what's in such a statement, what's a certificate, what's the difference and what you're using for one thing and what you're using for the other." That also gives us the opportunity, I say to Mrs Kuik, to point out to employers that we expect something from them in such a statement, namely that they encourage the student to get that diploma. So thank you for this motion. I'll be happy to work on that. She's getting judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u218	The motion in part No. 17 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u219	Then the motion to part No. 18 by Mr Van Meenen on an equal position for the MBO student as far as possible. We regulate that in the law, but your motion is actually asking for help and to ensure that the field and parties in society behave accordingly. I can't force that, but I can bring it to their attention. I would also like to work on this motion, so I will give it to the Chamber of Appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u220	The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u221	Mr Van Meenen also had a question about the capacity test. That's the point I'm going to discuss. But I would like to say right now that it is not intended as a means of selection, but as a way of looking with students to see if it is appropriate. But it's more of a matching conversation than a selection criterion with a yes or a no. That's not what it's for. I'll communicate that clearly in that conversation. I shall return to that in the letter to you. Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that Mr Kwint was unable to make any further motions. You ask me to identify what is needed to allow maternity leave in higher education. I'll map that out. I don't think you can be against charting anything at the request of the Chamber. That also gives me the opportunity to explain clearly what is possible at that point. I'll give you a letter on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u222	The motion in part No. 19 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u223	Finally, the motion in part No. 20 on child care. This is often asked for, but I tell you that we have decentralised poverty policies to municipalities. This means that we no longer have to decide how municipalities deal with this. I find this motion really contrary to what I have just said. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u224	The motion in part No. 20 has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u225	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I wish Mr Bishop every success in convincing his group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u226	Thank you. I see that Mr Kwint has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u227	Yeah, I'll keep trying. We are talking about, among other things, because of the risk of arbitrariness, I am not only talking about whether or not a scheme exists, but also about how high that scheme is, for example, a study allowance for students with medical disabilities. We didn't want it to matter where you study for the right to a supplement. Why do we not do that with the childcare allowance? In fact, we've made that one right. But why not do that with the allowance that municipalities can now offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u228	Because that own contribution really is a municipal authority. I don't want to sit here in the seat of congregations. So I'm sticking with the dissuading of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u229	I do not think either of you will agree on this point at least. In the direction of Mr Kwint, I say: cherish the other commitments. That's really nice for once, isn't it? Thank you, Minister. We have come to the end of the second term on the part of the cabinet and thus at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-25.u230	The vote on the legislative proposal, the amendments tabled and the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the Minister for Education, Culture and Science for her presence and contribution to this debate. This also applies, of course, to her support here and perhaps in another place. Thank you to the MPs and their support for your contribution. Of course, also thanks to our support of the messengers, the Registry and the Service Report and Editorial service for your cooperation. The people in the public gallery have now left us, but there may still be viewers at home. Thank you very much for your interest.
