ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the budget for Kingdom relations (35570-IV). I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. Today we are doing both the first and the second term on the part of both the Chamber and the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u2	In the first term, I shall now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. These are, of course, exceptional times, both in the Netherlands and in the Antilles. If you look out here right now and see it raining, you might wonder who wouldn't rather lie under the blue sky in the sun. But it's not. And especially for the people on the islands, it is actually the worst because there, of course, the income, from the Netherlands and other countries, has dried up because of the corona crisis. That corona crisis hits those islands hard, but it also hits the Netherlands hard. It doesn't matter whether you're in The Hague, or in Groningen, on Curaçao in Willemstad or in the bottom on Saba; it's bad everywhere. That is why I am going to be brief today, because this budget should perhaps be seen as an interim budget in this situation, of an intermediate year. It is a difficult year, an economically difficult year, both for the Netherlands and for our overseas territories. That is why I would like to say in the first instance: let us support the budget for the coming year, as it is now before us, simply all of us. That budget looks good. And then next year, when hopefully it's all over, let's go back to picking things up in a different way. There are, of course, sounds about the Statute. I've heard it from the islands. There too, surveys have been carried out and initiatives have been taken to see whether the Statute may need to be changed. That doesn't seem like the right route at the moment and for the coming year. Of course, I'd like to call on the Secretary of State to keep watching. If there are calls from the islands to perhaps give the Netherlands a smaller role in that Kingdom, and the other three countries have a relatively larger role, then see how the other countries in this crisis that need to be solved can also take their own responsibility. Do they say, "Maybe we should decide to get out ourselves?" And maybe the minister can make a call across the street. Maybe that's where he can say, guys, think about it. Maybe he can say, "If you want to fix it yourself, get out of it yourself." We also support the strict financial supervision and the conditions of the Secretary of State for liquidity support to the other countries. They seem logical to me and these conditions cannot be strict enough as far as we are concerned, because of course it must not go on like before, when it was often a bottomless pit. It's almost 10-10-20, I'd say, we're almost ten years away from 10-10-10. It's almost the President's birthday again, I'd say. Well, that was a joke in between, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u4	This year it falls on Saturdays. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u5	Yeah, that'll save you. So maybe it's time to see if that relationship can be put down a little bit by the minister, and that he makes a call in the overseas territories where he says: boys, show your responsibility, solve the crisis to a large extent himself, and if you want to get out, then get out. I'd like to stop doing that, Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following. The committee has been very active. I myself have been less active lately because I have had no or less time for this because of other things. However, I would like to express my thanks to the committee. There has been a great deal of contact with colleagues on the islands to get a lot of things sorted out, and to discuss how to get through this crisis. I would like to thank the members of the committee for doing this work on behalf of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u6	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u7	Mr. Chairman. 10-10-2010. In four days it will be exactly ten years ago. And what's come of it now? Ten years ago, I became a Member of Parliament. Also ten years ago, I became a spokesperson for Kingdom Relations. It's always good to learn from history. That's why I'm picking up some lyrics from the introduction of me over the past decade. On the entry into force of the Staff Regulations: "The VVD Group would have liked a more fundamental revision of the Staff Regulations in order to enable commonwealth-like construction in the Kingdom and to put an end to the current situation. The changes proposed by the government to the Staff Regulations did not go far enough. This was one of the reasons why the VVD voted against the legislative proposal on the amendment of the Staff Regulations." But I also said at the time that another reason to vote against was the fact that the island's financial system was and is not yet in order. And we've been ten years. In the 2011 budget debate: "Sint-Maarten still has a lot to do. The problem lies mainly in administrative integrity. A 2007 report indicated that there was a clear criminal presence and weak governance." There was a whole bunch of reports underneath. In the 2012 budget debate: "This debate is mainly about relations in the Kingdom. The relationship with Curaçao is one that I would like to describe with a quote from the Minister in response to questions from the VVD group: 'It is undeniable that relations between the young country of Curaçao and the Netherlands have recently improved.' That's a euphemism. In Curaçao, comments from the Netherlands are regarded as "colonialism" and interference with Curaçao's affairs." In the 2014 budget: "Sint-Maarten's incumbent power has no need at all to improve its integrity or to increase its transparency. That is clear from the reaction of the present government of Saint Martin. If the indications are not given, then we can find that the Statute can enter the trash bin, the shredder. Then we have a new form of state. This is a good starting point for the VVD." Under the 2017 budget: "The Government of Aruba also had the ambition to put public finances in order by cutting into a government apparatus that had grown too fast under previous government offices in Aruba. That didn't work out at all. Nice promises, but giving away jobs to potential voters turned out to be more important than putting finances in order. In fact, the Minister for Finance of Aruba, Mr Bermudez, announced earlier this year that there would be no redundancies, while Prime Minister Eman had planned to achieve a reduction of 5% per year." I also said: "I dare say that the countries of the Kingdom in the Caribbean have the potential to become the Monaco of the Caribbean. However, they are also countries that we have no control over. They are countries that can take out unlimited loans and that do not have the finances in order. They are countries where brothels are in the hands of politicians and countries for which we pay the bill. The VVD is very concerned about this. These countries can do whatever they want, because the Dutch taxpayer guarantees. It is time for the countries themselves to take action." In the 2018 budget: "There is still plenty to do in Aruba. The finances are still out of order. The number of officials on Aruba's payroll is still completely out of proportion. The adjustments of the refinery are still a black box. The costs are not clear and the returns are certainly not." I also said: "What makes all this clear to me is that the Statute and the present organisation of the Kingdom are no longer of this time. Responsibilities are not in the places where directors are accountable. The Netherlands must not interfere, because the countries are autonomous. Until there is a disaster, because then the Netherlands must intervene, when we have no responsibility for it. In short, the Statute really has to be different. Now is not the time to fill that out, but the VVD will soon be working on it." In the 2019 budget: "The foundation of the Kingdom of the Netherlands is the Statute, which should bind us and give us clarity about responsibility and control. That should be the case, but the VVD must conclude that the 1954 Statute is therefore 64 years old and is in fact in need of renewal. This statute is not of the 21st century. We notice this in the Netherlands, but we also notice this time and again in the Caribbean countries and islands. The statute cracks and squeaks. Because there is discussion over and over about who is responsible for what and who has control of what, it is not clear." In the 2020 budget: "Another example is how Saint Martin deals with the prison on the island. The country of Sint-Maarten itself is responsible for this too and has left that responsibility entirely behind. In fact, in a discussion with the Sint-Maarten cabinet, the Minister of Justice of Saint-Maarten, Mr De Weever, indicated that if things go completely wrong with the prison, it will of course become a responsibility of the Kingdom and thus of the Netherlands. That can never be the intention of an autonomous power, I ask the Secretary of State." Mr. Chairman. Those were my budgets for the last ten years. Now to the reality of today. Looking back and considering today's situation, the VVD has to conclude that we haven't made much progress in the last ten years. There's nothing new under the sun. It could make you despondent. The countries have not implemented reforms in their economies and their financial management. The countries have mainly continued on the old track and the drivers were mainly busy with friends, family and favors. I get it, too. It's small islands where everyone knows each other. That also makes it very difficult to keep your back straight and not give your husband, son, daughter, cousin, cousin or friend that job they're not suitable for. Or not to give them that extra building ticket at a reduced rate. Or not to make that exception to the law, which allows you, for example, to spearfish or tear your quad through Arikok and destroy nature. Or suppose your husband is involved in the Bachelor in Politicing project, in which you are involved as a ruler in the decision-making process. Mr. Chairman. There are examples left of friends and family. But that is all short-term thinking and creates an inequality on the island that you shouldn't want as a driver. Because we see that the islands are unable to get their finances in order and to make their economies shockproof. Countries cannot generate enough revenue to support their governance. Having said that, you can only conclude that the countries cannot bear their autonomy. Now that the countries are also confronted with the corona crisis, it is quite impossible for them to get it financially. It is good that the government of the Netherlands wants and can support the countries. We'll pay a lot of money for that. But I've also learned from the past. Ten years ago, they all promised to reform. And all that those reforms would take place. And all that the Civil Service would be smaller. In return, we have invested EUR 1.5 billion in debt restructuring. I think we're still paying for it. Mr. Chairman. All the support we are going to give, which is going to be long-term, can only be provided under very strict conditions in terms of the VVD. I support the Secretary of State's line. Countries do not have to accept the offer as far as the VVD is concerned. That choice is up to them. But I also do not feel obliged to transfer money to the countries to close their financial gaps. If Curaçao were to start collecting taxes, they would not even need the support of the Netherlands. And that tax collection applies to all three countries in the Caribbean. So much for the countries of the Kingdom. Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius are also discussed here. I would like to start with a critical look at ourselves: we are also directly responsible for Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius for ten years now. There too, the improvements have not been made at the desired pace. For Statia, we're even entirely responsible. However, I welcome the progress made in setting the social minimum. Positive steps have been taken. What I do miss is the steps towards reducing the costs of fixed charges, such as water, energy, housing and the costs of the Internet. Chamber-wide, really Chamber-wide, we call for the reduction of these fixed charges. How are we going to reduce those costs now? Because raising income, the social minimum, is one, but the essence is that the daily costs for your home, for your water, for your energy and for your internet each time a hole in your budget. Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that agriculture is getting the attention it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u8	Mrs. Kuik has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u9	The point made by Mr Bosman about reducing the burden is justified. But it's only six months until the election, and I'm a little done with it. Just look at the Internet and KPN. I think there is a wonderful case there to join forces and to force some of it now. So my specific question is: how can we work together and how can we ensure that the cabinet does something instead of just speaking fine words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u10	Yes. You're right. I also understand the frustration of Mr. Chicken. I think we all share that. We've been wanting to call an entire cabinet here. 'Cause they're all pointing at each other and saying, "This isn't my wallet, and you have to get the money out of there." When we talk about the Internet and KPN, it is difficult to say that it concerns Mrs Keijzer's portfolio. But I am prepared to see how we can move forward, whether it is with a motion or by asking this Secretary of State to what extent he can say something about it. But I am prepared to take further steps to see how we can at least settle that. Because the importance of the Internet is sometimes underestimated, for example for distance education, including on the islands, in corona time. It is the basis for the economy and vital for accessibility and approachability, especially for a tourism sector that depends on the images it can broadcast. I totally agree with Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u11	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u12	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that agriculture is getting more and more attention. We recently had a video conversation with the islands in which it was enthusiastically said that agriculture is on the agenda. I've been working on it for 10 years. If that gets there now, there's already success, I think. It is a good thing that agriculture is getting the more attention it deserves. I spoke to the other day, entrepreneurs working on Ocean Water Assisted Cooling, OWAC. With this system greenhouses on the islands could be kept at temperature to grow year round food. There are opportunities, but the pre-investment is sometimes the problem. The islands are too small to pay for these investments. Can the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius also make use of the innovation and growth funds that we are now using, for example, for corona or for economic development? Is that an easy procedure for those islands? Mr. Chairman. There's a lot to worry about. The Saba Business Association has sent us a letter about the concerns it has about the survival of the companies on Saba. What customization can be made for the whole of the Caribbean Netherlands, for Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius, for islands specifically, in the support in this corona pandemic and the crisis, I ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. After ten years of a new Statute, the VVD's conclusion remains the same: it squeaks and cracks in the Kingdom. We have a cafeteria statute and it is time for a fundamental revision of the Statute. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u13	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. After the chair has been cleaned, I go to Mrs Özütok van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u14	We're gonna have to lower the speaker chair a little bit. I'm not that big, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Today's constitutional relations will exist for ten years next Saturday, but it will not be a party. The world and therefore also the paradise Caribbean Kingdom parts are in the grip of the COVID-19 virus. The countries and the Caribbean Netherlands are taking the necessary measures to control the virus. Through their decisive action they manage to prevent worse. That deserves a big compliment. I would also like to thank the Dutch Government for the unconditional humanitarian aid offered to the countries and to the Caribbean Netherlands. The Royal Navy provided medical assistance. The Red Cross distributes food packages. Drinking water is available on Sint-Eustatius. Sint-Maarten is being helped with the reconstruction. But also for another reason it is not a feast in the Kingdom. The relations between the Netherlands and the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are tense. The conditions attached to financial support run into resistance from the countries, even though we want to do it for the inhabitants of the islands. The hard message is that prosperity and well-being are disproportionately divided on the islands. The common man/woman often lives under poor conditions with little perspective and influence. That has to change. I think we all agree on that. However, I must say that it is painful that we are trying to overcome a pandemic on a one-sided basis and at the same time face up to each other about the implementation of necessary reforms. I cannot judge from this whether what the Secretary of State is asking of the countries is proportionate. However, there is no doubt that there is a need to put financial management in order, to improve the quality of government and to strengthen socio-economic reforms. And then I haven't even mentioned the huge challenges of climate change and the protection of vulnerable Caribbean biodiversity, especially the important tourism earning model of the islands. But no matter how much GroenLinks supports the Secretary of State in his efforts to put the necessary reforms into motion again, forcing them might go too far under current constitutional conditions. An unnegotiable set of requirements in which the implementation and supervision will be confined to the Caribbean reform entity controlled by the Netherlands is perhaps simply too much to ask. The other countries have at least the right to participate and to exercise their own parliamentary control. I really urge the Secretary of State to reconsider the involvement of the countries in the Caribbean reform entity. On the contrary, there is every reason to look for sustained consensus. If that fails or if there is a difference of opinion, then there is every reason to submit it to another independent third party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u15	I hear a strong call to involve the States in the Caribbean reform entity. My question is: what has the impact of the States on economic development on the islands over the last ten years? What positive effects have they had?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u16	I am talking about a democratic body that has been elected. In these relations, I consider the sovereignty of the States to be important, especially if we all consider the democratic rule of law and the participation of residents to be important. I believe that there should be a role for the States. I also ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of that. I'm not ready for you to throw all that overboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u17	I am not throwing anything overboard, but if we are talking here about nearly a billion dollars in Dutch money, which we want to see where it stays, then you may wonder what the role of the statesmen in the Caribbean reform entity is; I would like to ask Mrs Özütok again. What should these State Members do to provide guidance in this parliamentary process, which will improve the situation in Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin? They haven't done that in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u18	I would like to ask the Secretary of State about exactly how it should be set up in the process. I think it is important that there should be a place for this and that control and participation should be dealt with in one way or another in that Zbo and in that control function. I don't have a ready-made model, if that's what you're asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u19	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u20	Finally, Mr President. But then, looking back, we can conclude that the ten years of commitment of the States did not bring the economic prosperity we had all hoped for. Is that a common conclusion we can draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u21	I haven't been here ten years. I hope to achieve that, and I hope to continue to do so; I am kidding. I agree with you that things have not gone well in the past. But I am not ready to throw all democratic institutions and representations overboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u22	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u23	Mr. Chairman. I think it is precisely an independent dispute procedure or a piece of advice that can break the current deadlock. I have often argued in favour of asking the Council of State for an opinion on how the current constitutional conditions are working and how other countries, such as Denmark, deal with their overseas territories. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. You would almost forget that significant steps have also been taken in the right direction. Living conditions in the Caribbean Netherlands have improved. The minimum income goes up and the cost of living goes down gradually. That may not happen so quickly, but I am nevertheless pleased with the steps that have been taken, because poverty must leave the Kingdom. However, it raises the question of what this means in practice for ordinary Caribbean people. What exactly do the inhabitants of the Caribbean Netherlands see in their pockets of the social minimum benchmark, especially now that the COOVID-19 crisis is causing additional costs for necessary hygiene? Mr. Chairman. I asked questions about the connection of education in the Caribbean Netherlands to Dutch further education. The answers do not quite reassure me yet. It is not until August next year that a new decision will be taken to avoid connection problems as much as possible. That's a blow to the arm that doesn't entirely suit me. Surely it cannot be that we take for granted that not all inhabitants of the Netherlands have equal access to education? I call on the Secretary of State to promote the importance of high-quality education in the Caribbean Netherlands and to ensure that the connection to Dutch further education is quickly regulated. Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is still concerned about the reception of Venezuelan refugees and the Caribbean prison system. These concerns have only grown as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic. Does everyone have access to medical care, necessities and education, which are needed under the current circumstances? Is the human rights standards that we apply in our Kingdom being met? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. Then I'll go to Mr Van Dam. We'll have to wait until the speaker chair is cleaned. We'll wait a minute. I call Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This Saturday we celebrate ten years of politically new relations within the Kingdom. It's supposed to be a holiday, but I'm afraid the flags aren't hanging everywhere. 10-10-10: I haven't experienced it very consciously myself, at least not in the Kingdom context, but some of the people present here have. It is easy to condemn the choices that were made afterwards and to keep them under review. A lot of people do. I also see all kinds of surveys appearing in the media, for example on Curaçao, which shows that people long for the mother's womb. I understand that in times of need. Recently, as spokesperson for Kingdom relations, we had a video conference with representatives of the States, including those of Curaçao. I can talk about it, because the participant of Curaçao later in the media also talked about it extensively. He said: "Curaçao autonomy is comparable to Dutch freedom. Many on the island see the plans of the cabinet, especially everything related to that entity, as an attempt by the Netherlands to take over power again." He also honestly said that he sometimes got that feeling himself and that that got him in the way of positive thinking about those plans. Well, I need to reply to Mr Walroud along this road. My group, the CDA Group, needs nothing to do with the autonomy of the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. The choices made ten years ago are the starting point of our relationship. If we want to change that, the initiative will have to come from the countries themselves. That is the way the Statute works. But there is one question: what then is autonomy? What does it mean to be an autonomous country? That you're your own boss? Or does this mean that you are able to function independently as a country, to feed mouths, to nurse sick people and to maintain order, the rule of law? Let us be honest: then the countries, then we have a long way to go with each other. In a time of crisis, this autonomy is more than ever being tested mercilessly and mercilessly. The entity devised by the Secretary of State does something with the autonomy of the countries. Let's be clear about that. But we end up striving for the autonomy of people who can earn their own living, who want to see their children grow up in a country that has the right to exist and who want to see their country as a place of peace and justice. As a CDA, we want to contribute to this. We need nothing to come back unilaterally to choices from 2010, but soft healers make stinking wounds. And speaking of healers, how does the Secretary of State look at ten years of new relationships within the Kingdom? How does the Cabinet see our new relationships? What words does he speak on the occasion of that second lustrum? Mr. Chairman. I come to some more substantive things, to the Caribbean Netherlands. Let me begin by congratulating the governments of the three islands. There is much to improve, but a lot has also been done. The way they relate to the current covid crisis deserves our respect, day in and day out. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, what progress has been made on the Ibo and Council of State opinions on the island's administrative development? What's the status of the Bonaire Board Agreement? And how is the organisation going between the Dutch Caribbean Office and the three public bodies? When we were at Bonaire in January, fortunately, we noticed that there was room for improvement. Mr. Chairman. Saba has been the example of good governance and good financial management for many years, but Saba has a gap in the budget for the coming year. What support and message can the Secretary of State give to the inhabitants of Saba on this point? Elections will take place on 21 October at Saint-Eustatius, an important step towards the restoration of democracy. To what extent does Corona throw soot in the food? Everything going according to plan? I'd like an update. Mr. Chairman. On 10 September, Minister De Jonge received UNICEF youth advice, with specific advice from young people from Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba. I got it right here. I made a deal with the messengers. They're already sharing it. It's very easy these days. I would like to know from the Secretary of State to what extent this is being taken up by the Cabinet and, above all, to what extent the young people who have participated in it get back that the big people are doing it. Just a few loose questions and concerns, starting with the freedom of the press. Specific support has been given to media and, in particular, regional media in the Netherlands as part of the corona measures. I can remember that support has been given to the West media in an earlier tranche. Does the government intend to continue to do so and could this support extend, for example, to the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, because these independent media play such an important role? Then a question about the College of Financial Supervision and the College of Aruba Financial Supervision. If I may say so, I would like to point that out a little bit as the accountant of the Kingdom, but we see that this college is getting more and more tasks assigned, also a little because of the need of the moment. That is fine in itself, but with that the role of the CFT also seems to be becoming more and more political. And a political accountant, should you be happy about that? Does the Secretary of State share this concern and how does he plan to get the CFT back to where they should be? They have authority and they hold authority, but I am concerned that if they become too political, they will be undermined. Finally, Saint Martin. I requested an AO this week or last week about the prison on Saint Martin. I have tabled a motion three times with the support of colleagues and I believe that something needs to be done. I will go into that during the AO because I would like to do so in the presence of Minister Dekker. But recently we were sent the last report from the St.Maarten Trust Fund, I believe even at the beginning of this week. This concerns cooperation with the World Bank to rebuild Saint Martin. If you look at the factsheet in that report in particular, you'll be shocked. It appears that, despite the use of millions, very few results have been achieved. In my view, the reality is more positive than that page 32, but I would like a response from the Secretary of State. I have to say that I am not really sure what to do with St.Maarten anymore. I really have the idea that the island of..... I know that it is a geographical impossibility that I now pronounce.................................................................................................................................................... I have the impression that there are discussions going on with Curaçao and Aruba and I think it is sometimes very hard what happens behind the scenes, but at least there is talk and something is happening. At St. Martin's, I feel like nothing's happening at all. We also had a conversation with the States of Saint Martin about the second tranche. I hear a lot of objections, a lot of hassle, a lot about what's not right, including a whole story about colonialism that I think is: these aren't the lyrics we need to speak? I myself believe that the States of Saint Martin and the policy of Saint Martin should do much more to keep up the discussion about the entity. What is happening now is that the Secretary of State is talking to three parties. Why isn't that one party? Why don't they do that together? I am extremely concerned about it, and I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. (NL) Mr President, all in all. Ten years of new Kingdom, I'll stick out the flag next Saturday. I don't care, I just do it, for all residents on Saint Martin, for all residents on Aruba and on all those islands there. For the CDA Group, it is certain that in the choices we make, we have something going on with each other. I always put that in my own words by saying that we are family. Again, you can have a fight with your uncle, your aunt, your cousin and your cousin, you can say goodbye to each other, but yeah, they'll still be your uncle, your aunt, your cousin and your cousin. Maybe we should have a family dinner more often. That seems to be very helpful. At least it gets a really nice limousine. But I'm taking off the flag on Saturday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u26	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP. It has been there for ten years, as Mr Bosman was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u27	I was there, Mr. Bosman wasn't; that was Mr. Remkes at the time. That was an instructive experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u28	Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had a question for my colleagues. Which one of you would like to take over the board of Aruba? Mr Bosman shakes no. No one? What about Curaçao? Would someone like to take over the board of Curaçao? Mr Van Dam had already indicated that he was not. What about Saint Martin? The Secretary of State, perhaps? He says it'll be his turn soon. This is remarkable, because every time we try to develop the economy from the Netherlands on the islands, to fight poverty, when we try to help an island that is hit by a hurricane, when we try to help people that are affected by corona, every time we try to help, when we try to do something, they say we want to take over the government and we want to colonize the islands again. Then it is very strange that when I come here and I ask Members of Parliament, there is actually no one who says: I want to colonize the islands. So I have a feeling there's a gap there. I think the islands are colonialized. They are, but not because of us. In 2006 this is my 18th budget, chairman, and for the time being my last.... I received a standard contract from the special economic zones and the companies that were established there. They didn't have to pay any taxes, almost nothing. That was a standard contract for all those companies in those hundreds of economic zones. So there are just a lot of companies, including large companies, and rich people on the islands who pay little or no taxes, while there is very deep poverty: people have no jobs and mothers cannot feed their children. Those people were never asked: "Oh, do you want to pay taxes, but not the rich on the island?" That question was never put to the people. It seems to me that if they had gotten that question, they would have said yes to it. There's another coloniser, too. It's from outside. It is very remarkable to see how there is a strong financial sector on the islands. This is very unusual in the Caribbean: strong banks, fiscalists, consultants, often from the Netherlands almost always from the Netherlands. On the islands, these help the multinationals, the rich oligarchs from Russia and from all over the world, not to have to pay taxes in their own country. Those foreigners too will be very rich from the islands. But have the poor people on the islands ever chosen that? Have they ever been offered that choice? "Do you want to make Abramovich rich?" "Do you want to make Corallo rich?" "Do you want drug lords to launder massive amounts of money on your island?" "Do you want there to be a gambling mob that launders billions?" That was never asked of ordinary poor people. They never said yes to that. There's also a third coloniser, and of course we have a diabolical trinity together, and those are the old families on the islands who've been in charge for a long time. Those families will only let anything happen if they take advantage of it themselves, personally. If they don't take advantage of it personally, it's not gonna happen. I'm just referring to Saint Martin's airport. Then it won't happen. Then we can turn our heads in the Netherlands, then we can send a lot of people and a lot of resources and make a lot of demands, but if they do not want it, it is not going to happen. That's a conclusion I have to draw, ten years after 10-10-10. The Kingdom has failed. What strikes me is that everyone has actually said that so far. That is a sad conclusion, because how much money, people and resources have we put into it? It didn't work. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, it has failed. How bad is that for those people who didn't ask for this? They did not choose to be exploited by all those others, on their own island, on their own streets. What have we done? Well, together with Mr. Bosman, we did that research on the underworld. A lot of politicians are in prison these days, but it's kind of sad. There's gonna be more. A lot of research has also been done on the financial sector. Corallo and other financial figures are in jail or on trial. KPMG has been terminated. I'm proud of that. That's a personal success. KPMG has been terminated. What villains! But they're still walking around and still doing their job, under another stick. Not a lot of research has been done on the consultants and the consultants, and on their role in 10-10-10 and in recent years. The idea that the islands are run by politicians and civil servants is a bit of a misunderstanding. Plans are made by consultants, which are carried out by consultants and controlled by consultants. And that does not really involve political democracy or anything like that very much. It pains me to conclude that and to leave this subject behind after all these years. I have at least tried to offer a perspective earlier in the debate on the Committee on Disputes. I said: let's do the homework we haven't done before; define the responsibilities, the responsibility we have. But I would like to add another proposal to that today. 10-10-10 failed. We can all see that now. I think we can all say today that we want it better, that we want it different, that we don't want to make the same mistakes. But then we'll have to recognize those mistakes first. I would therefore suggest that an investigation should be carried out; that can be done easily; that can be done either by one gentleman or by the lady, or by two people to see how this decision-making took place in the Netherlands and on the islands around 10-10-10 and what went wrong there, if you look at the glasses from now on. What are the lessons we can learn? What are the mistakes that have been made and what are the lessons we can learn for now, for the next ten years? Then what have we left behind which must be done now? What have we done well, what can we build on? What has gone wrong and will we have to do differently in the future? I would like to propose that, and I am curious to see Mr Van Dam's support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u30	As I understand it, there's got to be some sort of historical investigation. I'm gonna think about that. I have another question. Experience shows that if you have this portfolio long, you don't get any happier when it comes to the Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u31	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u32	We heard Bosman's memoirs today. You should at least put a box of prozac to get through that, so to speak. My question is simply: I believe that you and Bosman have tabled a motion together with Bosman, and I do not know whether it was the Bosman/Van Raak motion or the Van Raak/Bosman motion, but in practice it does not make any difference to say that there should be an update or an evaluation of the Statute. I thought that was a very sensible motion. But I actually hear you say today: boys, let's stop. What is it? Are we going to invest in that now? Are we moving on? Or do we pull the stop out of the bathtub and go home right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u33	No, I want to get on with that. We didn't do that for nothing. I want to get on with that. As a result of the Disputes Committee, we did so. I am also very pleased that the Dutch Government, that the Secretary of State has embraced this and that he has contacted the other countries. I'd also like to know what's going on with him. But, as usual, it's still pretty deafeningly quiet. So if there are movements there: fantastic, very good! That is one side: that is how the islands think they can guarantee those responsibilities within the Kingdom. That is the question of what the islands themselves are going to do, what they think the Netherlands should do and how we can do it without constantly arguing. But, of course, we have made mistakes ourselves. This research is also there to look at ourselves. What have we left around this decision-making process, around 10-10-10? What have we done wrong, what have we done wrong on the islands, what are the lessons that we can learn besides that? So on the one hand there is the question: what do the islands think that the relationships should be within the Kingdom? And this is more procedural. Do an investigation into how it went wrong around 10-10-10, so that we don't have to make the same mistakes in another process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u34	Good, so you want to go through and you want to make something out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u35	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u36	But you come here with your little truck full of misery into the plenary room, you open the loading bin and I think: describe the positive story you want to go to with the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u37	The positive story is that we are still going to do the homework that we should have done around 10-10-10, which is to clarify the proportions. And we need to stop making some mistakes. I mention the fact that Schotte could come to power immediately while his file was ready for the Secret Service. This also applies to other ministers at the time, who had never been through screening. So the question is, what mistakes have we made? We made some stupid mistakes, you know. The proportions must be clear. We must get rid of the mechanism of a clique on the islands that can make a mess or enrich itself and then blame the Netherlands. That is a mechanism that is bad for the relationship and it is also bad for the people on the islands. How can we break that mechanism? How can we make these relationships clear? That's what we need to start with. And that's what we start with in a family that's currently torn apart, a family that doesn't speak anymore, that doesn't get together on birthdays or Christmas. That's what we need to invest in first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u38	Finally, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u39	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The fact that I manage to get the representative of the SP, who has had that portfolio for eighteen years, to say the word "family" in relation to the Antilles, is a message of hope for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u40	That's something I've been doing for 18 years. I've seen the Kingdom as a family for 18 years. It also feels like a family pain to see the nephews and nieces and uncles and aunts drift away. I felt the same way about Saint Martin. Saint Martin is family, but that's family you'll never see again. In the last eleven seconds, I want the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u41	Well, Mrs. Diertens has a question and then Mrs. Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u42	Oh, look. That's fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u43	Yeah, I know you like that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u44	I understand that on the occasion of a motion that has been made earlier on the evaluation, you now want to have a historical study carried out. I do have the question of how you imagine that. Is that going to be a kind of broad composition from the governments there and the Netherlands? How do you imagine that investigation? Is an independent party gonna do that? If such things are to happen, I think it is very important that this is accompanied by some kind of independence. I do believe, however, that in recent years, since the beginning of the 1990s, I have been able to find myself on the islands of the islands of the European Union, where there have been very good, positive developments, which have also had some effect on those who have less to spend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u45	I don't want an evaluation of someone from the Netherlands, someone from Aruba, someone from Curaçao and someone from Saint Martin who then starts arguing with each other. I don't want to, because that's the practice we've always done. I want a gentleman or a lady who is competent and, above all, independent, whom we simply point out; someone who does that research for us, an independent person who conducts an independent investigation. Simple. Preferably not a consultant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u46	A study is interesting, but what about the equivalence between the Netherlands, the islands and the countries? I can't hear you say anything about that. Is that what we're going to include in that historical investigation? 'Cause I'd like to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u47	For 18 years, I have argued for equivalence, which is not yet there. I want equality. At the moment there is no equivalence, because the Netherlands, however you turn or turn it, through that Statute within the Kingdom is responsible for everything and everything. That's what gets you into a fight. That's what's causing trouble. I would therefore like to make fully equivalent agreements on the basis of equivalence, namely full equivalence, the Netherlands and the islands. What do the islands say? "We can do better than that. What can't they do there in The Hague?" Well, there's a lot we can't do; I can assure you. So, what do people want? Not the drivers, not the families, not the consultants, not the companies, but what do the people on the islands want? That they do it as a country, as an island themselves. What do they think? "Well, I don't think we can. Here we need help from the Netherlands." If there is help from the Netherlands, how can the Netherlands do that? How can we bear that responsibility? That is an equivalence that has not been achieved so far. Since 1954 there has been no such equivalence. That's what I'm arguing for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u48	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u49	Finally, to end positively, the First Salute. That is something that binds us all: the First Salute, the Kingdom that plays an important role in American history. What about the First Salute? Are we going to organize this in 2026? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u51	Thank you. The islands always make me happy. I'd really like to take that with me in this room. We are in a major global crisis. In addition to coronas victims, which we regret, the shopping streets on the islands have become distraught and hotels are empty. A lot of people are under stress about what the future's gonna look like. At this time there is also strong connection within the Kingdom. The consequences of the crisis affect us all. In the Netherlands and in the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom we have the same problems. How do we stop the virus? How do we protect the vulnerable in our society? How do we ensure that our economy can continue to run as much as possible? And, in a broader sense, how do we intend to shape our society and our economy in the future? The COVID-19 crisis shows how fragile the island economy is. That is why D66 wants structural reform and sustainable investment. In addition, it is our duty to help the people of the islands to cope with the first blows in the economy and health care. The liquidity support and the arrangements surrounding it play an important role in this. I am therefore concerned that the negotiations on the third tranche have been so tough. Mr. Chairman. A month ago, the Secretary of State announced that there was consensus on a new state law. I asked him at the time whether there was actually consensus. In the meantime, we've moved on for another month and time hasn't answered the question yet. There are serious concerns about the deterioration of the autonomy of the islands. Can the Secretary of State say once again that there is absolutely, but absolutely, no question that the Netherlands wants to undermine the autonomy of the islands? This fear may constitute an obstacle to agreeing to the terms of the third tranche, although we have already reached a reasonable degree of agreement in substance. As a House of Representatives, we have not heard anything about the progress of the talks. I therefore ask the Secretary of State what is the state of play in the negotiations. Is the continuity of the island's public spending really under threat? I understand that it is urgent. If so, what are the consequences of this on the fight against COVID-19? I would like to call on the Secretary of State and the representatives of the islands to reach an agreement as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. D66 looks not only at acute aid, but also at the future. This crisis shows the importance of a robust and diverse economy. Sustainable reforms and investments are needed to make the islands more resilient to external shocks in the future. There is an untapped economic potential on the islands and it is time to make use of it. There are opportunities for innovation in the blue economy. Sustainable tourism, clean energy and responsible fisheries and agriculture contribute to a diverse economy. Education must also be better adapted to the needs of the labour market. The Dutch government will lend a lot of money to the islands in the coming years and would also like to play a role in the use of this money. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this time not only requires reforms, but also investment? And how will this money contribute to investment in a diverse and, above all, sustainable economy? Mr. Chairman. In his speech during the Summit on Biodiversity of the United Nations, our Prime Minister already referred to the importance of nature conservation in the Caribbean parts of our Kingdom. Like D66, he recognizes the beauty and potential of these natural areas. D66 welcomes the 3.9 million in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality for the Nature and Environmental Policy Plan. We particularly welcome Mr Tjeerd de Groot's coral recovery plan, which I myself have been working for. Investing in nature management and biodiversity is good for nature and the economy, and this is also emphasised by the President. Let us also involve young people in all the investments that are coming. There is a citizens' initiative in the making where young people themselves say they want to get involved. Then I have to talk about Hurricane Irma. Unfortunately, reconstruction is getting too slow. The Secretary of State stated in his letter to the Chamber that the effectiveness of the World Bank suffers from bureaucracy and a lack of pragmatism. Fortunately, there are more opportunities to get the money in the right place. And just out of the blue, I wonder if it is possible to transfer the unspent money from the World Bank account to the new reform entity set up with the aim of using it more quickly and efficiently together with local NGOs. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to mention the social minimum benchmark. We have discussed this before, but the COOVID-19 crisis is far behind both the reduction in the cost of living and benefits. The social situation was already acute, but is now in danger of getting worse. The Secretary of State has already temporarily reduced a number of cost items to compensate for this. Is the Secretary of State prepared to take a long-term look at what is needed to ensure the social minimum? How will the Secretary of State monitor the social state in the Caribbean Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. In January we visited the prison in Curaçao. But despite the official reports of Curaçao and our Secretary of State, refugees from Venezuela have been detained for over six months. This is a gross violation of human rights. This is unacceptable and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State what action he is going to take to resolve this pressing issue. It is also important for refugees to have access to good legal aid. The Curaçao authorities indicate that they are seeking cooperation with local NGOs. The Secretary of State has already indicated that he will assist in this task if necessary. Can the Netherlands therefore ensure that there is sufficient financial resources for the above-mentioned cooperation with NGOs in order to be able to actually provide the State's legal assistance? Is the cabinet prepared, as it itself states in the letter, to assist financially in this? Finally, or perhaps finally. In 2018, I called on the Secretary of State to organise the libraries in the Caribbean Netherlands in such a way that they support lifelong learning. I welcome the steps that have been taken in this regard. Last week I visited Forum Groningen, a wonderful example of a modern, innovative library, a social-cultural community centre, where people can develop themselves personally. Everything is available that is important to gain knowledge and experience with each other. What can the Secretary of State do to further set up libraries as physical sites for innovation, meeting and development in the Caribbean Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u52	Before you proceed, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u53	Still, about that prison and the reception of Venezuelan refugees or illegals. I get the impression that Mrs Diertens is looking very much at this Secretary of State for the solution. But we do agree that it is a responsibility of the country of Curaçao, don't we? We agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u54	Yeah, I agree. Only I notice that Curaçao is of course in contact with our Secretary of State and that information comes out. I would like to know whether the Secretary of State is aware of the fact that new refugees have already been admitted there, including two children, that it is very difficult to get the support that is needed and that there have indeed been more than six people in prison for six months. I just think that's a bad situation that we've been calling attention to before. I just think that we are responsible for that in the Kingdom as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u55	Well, then we're a little different. Because the responsibility lies in one place and that is the government of Curaçao. If she asks us if the Netherlands can give help, that is a request, a question to the Netherlands. The idea that is now emerging is that there is a kind of joint responsibility. I would just like to point out that it is Curaçao's responsibility. I am glad that Mrs Diertens also states that it is Curaçao's responsibility. We've been talking about this for a long time. Can we then jointly note that Curaçao is not in a position to take care of it properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u56	I don't know if you can tell. I'm very concerned about it with you. I believe that investing a responsibility does not mean that you cannot continue to engage in dialogue on it until it is resolved. So I ask that we just stay in conversation with Curaçao in order to improve the situation for the refugees there. I have indicated before, now also with covid, that I think it is very important that this happens for the people who live on the streets because they have no shelter, because they have no access to the right. I don't want to talk about responsibility; I just want us to figure it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u57	Finally, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u58	Yeah, "we're gonna fix it"? That's a really broad term, "we're gonna fix it." Er...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u59	Yeah, we're a family, right? That's what I hear here on all sides. So I think we can work together and see if we can make a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u60	I'm always trying to get someone to finish. If "we" are responsible, no one is responsible. Then we always look at each other, because we're all responsible, right? Curaçao is responsible. And yet a small correction: I have never forbidden anyone to talk. I just want to know who's responsible. And that's obvious. Mrs. Diertens and I agree. The responsibility lies with Curaçao. If they want something, they can ask. That doesn't mean we have to do it right, but they have to do it on Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u61	Good. Please continue, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u62	Mr. Chairman. I would like to bring to the attention of the Secretary of State a number of final points. In order to combat COOVID-19 in the Caribbean Netherlands, it is important that there is sufficient testing capacity. The cost of purchasing a test is now $900 each. The total cost is now $1 million. Can the Secretary of State examine the possibility of offering the islands test capacity to reduce the costs of testing? The public bodies of the Caribbean Netherlands indicate that they have problems getting around on the budget. This also jeopardises the performance of public sector bodies' services. In order to be able to move amounts more quickly, flexibility in the budget is needed. It's too limited now. The current procedure is cumbersome and takes a lot of time. Can the Secretary of State indicate how he can support public bodies in the continuation of their services? Can the Secretary of State also indicate whether it is possible to give public sector bodies a little more budgetary flexibility? I understand that work on the water supply at Saint-Eustatius is delayed because of COOVID-19. Can the Secretary of State indicate when the work will be completed, what exactly are the problems and how we can solve them? Mr. Chairman. I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to the following. I understand that in Curaçao, one of the authors of the law to allow gay marriage has withdrawn. D66 regrets that. The right to marry the person you love, regardless of sex, is a fundamental right. The COOVID-19 crisis must never be an argument for suspending or denying fundamental rights. That goes for D66 for gay marriage and also for the right to democratic governance. Finally, Mr President. The budget we are discussing today is much about reforms and strengthening the rule of law and public administration. The aim of this is to increase the island's self-reliance and administrative strength. I wholeheartedly support that. Good steps are being taken. I hope that this appreciation of the independence of the islands will also be reflected in the position of the Secretary of State in the negotiations for the third tranche. In addition to the story about reforms, I have put a story about sustainable investment. D66 believes that in connection we can come out of this crisis stronger. If we make the right choices now, we'll be ready together for a brighter future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u63	Mr Bosman has a question. As a VVD you are very active on this file!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u64	We are very active, because the Kingdom is about something, Mr. President. I repeat that here every time. We're in the middle of a legal process here, with a budget. We're in serious business. Mrs. Diertens comes to an important point, gay marriage. We support each other wholeheartedly; that is important. However, Mrs. Diertens is very close to one party on Curaçao, while the sister party of D66 is also against that gay marriage. So there is much broader resistance to gay marriage. It would be nice if Mrs. Diertens would say the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u65	I think we are so clear in our profile of gay marriage that, of course, we are also doing our best to take steps in our sister party. Staying in conversation and trying to move forward with respect for each other's points of view is very important to me. I regret that the initiative that was taking place in Curaçao, which I was really excited about, has now stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. First, the chair is cleaned and then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u67	I'm running a little tight, Mr. Chairman. I thought I could run another 10 kilometers, but that's always a bit disappointing. Mr. Chairman. The Hilma Hooker and the Thousand Steps. Anyone who dives a bit fanatic like me will know exactly what I'm talking about, namely two of the famous dive spots on Bonaire. When I listen to the contributions of my colleagues today, it feels a bit like the Thousand Steps, the thousand steps. Fantastic to be connected to the Kingdom, but when you have to go back figuratively back to that thousand steps with your heavy tank, sometimes it is a bit disappointing. Nevertheless, we will continue to do so, for we are indeed part of the Kingdom, as has been said. Mr. Chairman. I have limited time, so I will not repeat some things as my colleagues have said. Some things need to be named. We are, of course, waiting to see what happens with the liquidity support. How my party feels about that, may be known. I hope they get out. I also hope that, when conditions are met, part will be converted into a gift. And I hope that emergency aid will be maintained and that it will remain well monitored who needs what at what point, regardless of the discussions on package support. Mr President, the BES Islands. It is good that we are working towards a social minimum, but perhaps that is still not enough in daily practice. I share the sadness expressed by Mr Bosman that we are talking very much about what the countries or the islands should do better, but that we are not actually fulfilling our own mission, which we are actually failing to do. I'm just saying it very loudly. What do you want me to do? How crazy am I supposed to be? You want me to stand upside down? Who am I supposed to talk to? What does it help to make sure that we actually get movement now? I really have no message that Secretary of State Keijzer is responsible for the Internet, because that is not what the students in the islands have to say either. I just want it taken care of. The cabinet has six months left. Who am I supposed to talk to? What do you want me to do? How do we make sure it's taken care of? Mr. Chairman. Another concrete point is the housing market in this case specifically in the BES islands. This is also a major problem, with the problem that there is actually hardly any access to loan money and therefore one is also dependent on corruption. We have a whole system of mortgages and the National Mortgage Guarantee. Isn't there something conceivable in which we can design that also for starters in the BES islands? I know that we really didn't arrange that from today to tomorrow, but I just want to be able to take steps on that horizon to ensure, especially for those municipalities, which are just part of our Kingdom, that we work together as much as possible. Equal monks, equal hoods. Two more topics. It may be small, but it's about the Papiaments. That affects your colleague from the Interior; I will also make the point next week. We are proud of the Fries and we are proud of Limburgish, but apparently the Papiaments should not be part of that, because it does not get the same status. I don't understand that, especially considering our relations in the Kingdom. Can't we consider giving that the same status after all? As a Limburger, the Secretary of State knows how important that is. It is just a piece of cultural heritage and it also helps with a number of obstacles. Let's just do that. The last point I should like to make is that I am sorry to speak quickly about the Charles Doorman. I'm worried about the countries. I'm worried about our congregations in the Caribbean. It's fucked up, it's fucked up. The capacity is limited. Can't we just make sure the Charles Doorman is back there as a precaution? I'm actually calling on the Cabinet to do that. That's the end of it, Mr. Chairman. And towards the countries: have a good day, bon tardi and good afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u68	That's good, too. Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u69	Thank you, Mr President. It's possible. During the previous budget debate, I asked about the large number of flight movements towards the Caribbean, which could not be a bit more effective and less so, but I had not thought about measures such as flight restrictions. They came anyway, but with the reason they came, no one is happy. Economics and tourism have suffered a lot on the islands and the consequences of Irma had not disappeared on St.Maarten by the time Corona came along. It is important that the Netherlands show solidarity. I share that with those Members who have explicitly appointed it. In what way can we spare the islands as much as possible in dealing with corona and in what way can we support them? Are the measures taken in this area as far as possible also looking for tailor-made solutions, for example in relation to the aforementioned flight bans? Also in terms of economic support, the SGP calls for as much justice as possible to the specific context of the islands. The reimbursement of costs in the second phase would, as is stated, be mainly based on the situation on Bonaire. According to Saba's island council, this does not reflect the fact that about 90% of the companies there are sole proprietorships. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. The SGP supports the strong commitment to the third aid package for the countries. The Secretary of State expressed the positive motivation for this clearly and clearly. I quote: "The certainty you have at the moment is that if you keep doing the same thing, the misery gets even bigger. I think it is unacceptable that we should allow this on the basis of our responsibility as a director or a representative of the people. That is why, and nothing else, I am extremely motivated to ensure that things are different." At the same time, it must be clear that we are taking every small step forward where possible. Can the Secretary of State confirm that he will, if necessary, seize the opportunity to work at different speeds in relation to the different islands? It is possible that one country will light the other to get out of trouble. Finally, two questions on St Martin's Day. Two years ago, I asked about dealing with the terrible situation in prison there. I wasn't the only one. There has been constant demand for attention to be paid to this issue. There's all kinds of reports about that. Is there now a view of real improvement in the short term and, if not, what needs to be done to achieve it? Then there is the final question. Recently I heard the cry of general practitioners that more than half of the general practitioners on St.Maarten will retire within three years. What can the Netherlands mean when it comes to recruitment and contact between the professional groups there and here? Mr. Chairman. I would like to conclude by joining with Mr De Graaf's appreciation of the PVV towards the committee. Even as a SGP, we closely monitor developments around the committee and its operations, the consultations initiated by the committee. Unfortunately, we do not have the opportunity to attend everything, but I would like to express my appreciation for the way in which this is handled in committee. I would like to endorse Mr De Graaf's words of appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u70	Mrs. Diertens has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u71	I have a question about the different speeds. I'm a fan of Formula One myself, and we're not gonna go over the top. Do you mean by that, it is an enlightening question: if we get an agreement with one of the islands, we say 'let's please start', not to put all the islands on the brake?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u72	Perfect. That's an excellent summary of what I mean. We also know that one island is further developed towards self-employment and autonomy than the other. Making good policy on that is actually the intention of my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u73	Thank you, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u75	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm looking at the Secretary of State. Is there a need for a short suspension or a little longer, where we combine it with dinner break? Shall we suspend until 6:00? Yeah? Then I shall suspend the sitting until 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u76	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to Members for their input in the first term. First of all, let me give you a brief introduction. After that, I will deal with a number of themes. On the basis of Members' contributions, I have invented four blocks. The first block is about COVID-19 orq. Emergency aid. The second block is about the Caribbean reform entity. The third is about Caribbean Netherlands and in the fourth block I deal with the other questions. And I have already sent some of the answers to the questions to your Chamber in writing, also in order to do justice to the detailed question put by the Chamber. I didn't do that very long ago, but the suspension wasn't that long either. So you'll have those answers if it's okay inside. I just heard they were sent at 5:43 p.m. I would therefore like to refer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u78	We're gonna see if those answers are in yet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u79	At least they were sent 20 minutes ago. This budgetary procedure is designed to ensure that the government's first term takes place almost immediately after the first term of office. I have tried in this way to send you the answers to the questions that are a little more specific, also on paper. I therefore hope that you will receive them soon, because they will then be included in the course of the debate. Mr. Chairman. A number of speakers said in their introduction that it was ten years ago that we ironed the Antillean flag for good. And new flags were raised. Curaçao and Sint-Maarten got a new flag and of course Aruba had a special status since 1986. Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba were included as three special municipalities in the Netherlands, bound to each other by a common history and especially by a new future. Mr Bosman has already looked back on this in his canon of the past ten years; Mr Van Raak has done so over an even longer period. And all sorts of conclusions have been drawn from that. I think it is right to reflect on this in this debate, also in view of the questions that have been asked about it, and at least to reflect my observations and conclusions, as far as they can be drawn. I realise that I am failing in any debate, because there have been different parties and different positions in the last ten years, all of which have been able to come to certain conclusions from their own experience and position, which are not necessarily all in line. But that is also good for this debate. The Netherlands Antilles, which some still talk about, became history. The Antillean debts worth 1.2 billion euros have been wiped out. And budget support from the Netherlands stopped. In future, the Kingdom would continue with four fully-fledged, autonomous countries. And a leading adage in the collaboration between the four would become the words of Queen Wilhelmina in her radio speech of 1942. "Supporting on its own strength, but with the will to assist one another." Those words are often repeated, even nowadays. I also think it is a very good point, because on the one hand he says something about the fact that autonomous countries have their own responsibility, but he also says that you, in a kingdom, help each other if necessary. That's the added value. Sometimes the Caribbean countries help the Netherlands. Think of the flood disaster, think of World War II. And sometimes it's the other way around. On 10 October 2010, there was hope, optimism and confidence about this new road of the Kingdom, about this Kingdom new style. The life and prospects of the inhabitants of all islands would improve, so was the hope and expectation. Ten years later, we have to conclude that many of those expectations and promises from then did not come true and were not fulfilled. Mr. Chairman. I was allowed to take over the Kingdom file at the end of 2017. As I said today in an interview with the Volkskrant, I entered it very neutrally. I had no history on this file, nor did I have any strong opinions. After that, right from the start, I've been in the Caribbean a great many times. And what Mrs Diertens and Mr De Graaf actually said is: you always get happy when you're there. It's not just the temperature, it's also the warmth of the people who do something to you. In many festivities, I was able to celebrate with the people of the Caribbean how special it is that we have such a historical connection over such a long distance and that we have a lot in common. Of course the language, but also part of the culture. I recognize it very much, because I come from a small village myself. The smaller islands have almost the same origins as you look at the way they live together. People know each other, which has advantages and disadvantages, but there is also a lot of solidarity and proximity. May I mention Saba's example again? Mr Van Raak has looked back, Mr Bosman has quoted from his previous contributions. I think Saba is a good example of an island that, quite remote with relatively few inhabitants, always tries to solve a problem itself. One is resourceful, there is also literally colorful, and there is a lot of action. I like to see that in their own way, in their own way, they not only run such an island but also maintain society. That's something we need to cherish. In Sint-Maarten I was allowed to meet Mrs Christina Hodge in the Dutch Quarter. Many of you know her. I thought she was a symbol of someone who acts like a kind of Mother Theresa in that society. Standing among the people, rising for the weak, fighting poverty, sometimes fighting the institutions and governments, but always in a friendly way, always in a targeted way. I have a lot of respect for these people, who, without them, have to take on that responsibility and help others. This is the kind of people we need to cherish. I would like some of these people to be able to rely a little more on the governments they are part of. On Curaçao, for example, I also spoke to Aunt Emma Eman. I went to visit her. She picks up kids who don't have accommodation after school. She feeds them, she teaches them, she literally educates them and thus contributes to perspective for the younger generation. Behind all those stories of people who do this completely altruistic and are often supported by other groups, NGOs or individuals, there is, of course, a completely different reality. When I deal with the islands, I recognize that in the debates with you, too. I often have people like this on my retina. Why are we doing this? Why are we helping the islands? Why are we investing? Because we want to let the people on the islands go better. That's not always easy. Because we also sometimes encounter poaching, slow procedures, lack of strength, lack of resources, which lacks that necessary perspective and sometimes makes people choose to leave the island. That's exactly what we don't want. We want those people to stay there and make their contribution. The good news is that the three public bodies are doing relatively well. In recent years, we have seen a really positive trend. Major investments have been made and since the start of the cabinet the Ministry of the Interior has been coordinating the strengthening of the economic perspective on the islands. This coordination and cooperation with other departments here in The Hague are paying off. I would nevertheless like to mention the example of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment, with which we have been able to work together to ensure that a benchmark for the social minimum has been set. Are we there? I say this in response to Mrs Özütok. No, we're not there yet. Much remains to be done. But it is so nice that we have taken that step and that we are not yet at the end. We are genuinely striving to combat poverty and provide a perspective for the people. Bonaire, Saint Eustatius and Saba are better off than they were ten years ago. That is what we can conclude today. On Bonaire next year, in 2021, we will build on those prioritized themes from the governance agreement. Together we strengthen the implementing power of Bonaire, financial management and invest in agriculture and infrastructure. And yes, there is talk of agriculture. That is a gain, but there can be much more there than has been done so far. That is why it is included in the administrative agreement. For Saint-Eustatius, with the island elections this month, on 21 October, we are taking the first step towards the gradual restoration of regular administrative relations. The preparations for these elections are going well. Mr. Chairman. For Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba, it's a different story. With the newly acquired autonomy, the challenges also increased. Forged debts worth EUR 1 billion were followed up by new debts. The hoped economic boom did not come about. It did not get better for the people, for the inhabitants, on the contrary. According to the latest figures, the economy is expected to fall below 20% in the coming year, partly as a result of corona. Those are huge percentages. Figures in themselves say not so much, but behind these figures people hide: people who lose their jobs, who no longer see perspective, who literally live in poverty, who depend on food packages. Thus, since 10-10-10, partly due to external factors, the countries have never been so bad. This requires more than ever for acting, political leadership and decision-making. There is a great need for this. On 10-10-10, the Netherlands might have thought too much: the countries can do it themselves. Maybe the wish was the father of the thought. There were also parties that were critical, but in general there was above all hope, hope that things would go better. Maybe we've been too reluctant in those early years. At the same time, we can see that the countries have also regularly used their autonomy as a shield not to do business, not to do things that needed to be addressed because it was better for politicians, to subordinate the general interest of the population to the sub-interest of some. Mrs Özütok said it, Mrs Diertens said it: it is also a question of division. It's also the choice you make when it comes to how you make sure everyone benefits from prosperity. Under the guise of autonomy, barriers have been created that prevent us from getting into concrete work with improvements in people's lives. It is a sense of urgency that I have missed many times over the years when I was working on the islands. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words to Mr Van Raak from this point on, because Mr Van Raak has been very involved in the seventeen or eighteen years he has already reflected on this subject. He's actually a symbol for the committee, too. Both Mr Bishop and Mr De Graaf already referred to the collegiality: even though not everyone is present, everyone participates. But I can say that Mr Van Raak was one of the front people in this committee. He's always operated right from the point of view of those people. Politically speaking, we may sometimes be a little bit further apart, but what I think binds us is that the same motivation is behind it, namely that we want people to be better off. I can see that in the whole committee. I want to thank you for your fight. You mentioned the consultants. You've been talking about the gammafia, about people engaged in criminal activities. At the same time, you were also challenged by Mr Van Dam. I hope that your contribution has led to a number of things moving in the right direction. We also know that's what happened. There have been many initiatives from the Chamber to free up money for, for example, this approach to corruption. But we must also note that a lot of things are going well. When you look at the way normal people live together, you also see a lot of bright spots, but the differences are too great. I hope your task will be taken over by others when you leave this Chamber. This is your last budget review. I've enjoyed your passionate input in recent years. I would like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u80	Since we are no longer allowed to hold receptions, it must be this way. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u81	After corona, it's my first round.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u82	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u83	With corona, the pandemic that has robbed us all, the clock in the Caribbean countries of the Kingdom is now at twelve past five. Since the virus struck, the inhabitants of the islands have experienced what it means when suddenly no foreign visitor comes to visit, when tourism revenues dry up, when that dependency on the economy immediately shows how vulnerable you are, because you are out of work and without income. More than 20% of island families are now dependent on food aid. On Curaçao, there are at least 33,000 of the 156,000 inhabitants. There are 24,000 people in Aruba and more than 13,000 people in Saint Martin. The suffering is often behind the front door. Sometimes you see it at the front door, but it's also often behind the front door. They're proud people. When you come to the people's house, you can see what that suffering has caused. We have this discussion in the Netherlands, but we see it to a great extent in those parts of the Kingdom. You see large families there, often with grandpas, grandmothers and other family members, who then fall back on one income of someone who still has a job or a pension. You see young people who are going to have more jobs, who have lost their jobs. On my last trip when I was on Curaçao I talked to some of those 33,000 people about what that does to them and how we can offer perspective again. I spoke to a 71-year-old man who had worked his whole life. He went from job to job, but he had always worked and taken care of his income. He lived in a very poor house and was totally dependent on food aid. He felt the worst that he was dependent on others and that he had no perspective at the moment, no perspective that it would be better tomorrow. He literally said with tears in his eyes: I am glad when I reach the end of the day again; I live day by day. That's within the Kingdom. I have to say that these are those meetings that drive me even more to do the right things with you, but also with the drivers. It's also why I sometimes say that this is hard. It's hard when it comes to imposing conditions to make things better in the future. I always see the importance of those people who often do not have a voice and who are often not heard, and I also want to express that voice. We cannot accept this poignant situation, as some of you have said, but let us not. So let us make sure that the right things are done and the choices are made that are needed to help the islands on top of them, to offer that perspective again. When the virus began to disrupt the islands, the Netherlands immediately promised emergency aid, from Queen Wilhelmina's statement. We give emergency aid plus medical assistance, anyway until the end of the year; then we look further. We believe that no one in the Kingdom should suffer in this way. But actually, it's also sticking plasters. You should actually invest in the economy and offer perspective. Mrs. Diertens mentioned it. I'll come back to how we think we're going to do that. Forty-one million emergency aid has been committed this year. In addition, an offer was made at the National Council of Ministers on 10 July to countries for long-term cooperation under the condition of reforms, accompanied by investment. Countries have currently received EUR 350 million in liquidity support. There's an offer of another 185 million. That is getting up in time, of course; no one knows how long it takes. But we do have conditions. We have had a debate on this before. Why do we do that? If we continue to do things in the same way, Mr Bisschop spoke to us, we should not be surprised that the same results will come out. We want different outcomes and we want things to get better. This means that the tax revenue must be collected and the people who can bear the burden also pay it. That's what we call solidarity. This means that the load systems need to be adapted. We want to help with this too, because that is a rather extensive operation. That didn't happen overnight either. That is precisely why we have said: this is a multi-annual operation. It would be really irresponsible to say that we are going to do this in a year, because then we will create our own disappointment. We're still talking to the countries right now. At least I have to be more precise: we are mainly talking to Curaçao and Aruba. Sint-Maarten has not yet fulfilled the conditions of the second tranche and therefore no access to the third tranche at the moment. I sincerely hope that the drivers on the islands... I am not pessimistic about that; let me say that. It's a little bumpy now and then. And indeed, when we want to help, that is sometimes explained differently, including in the parliaments. The post-colonial attitude is often removed. But I repeat it to everyone who has already said it here, whether that is Mr Van Dam, Mr Bosman, Mr Van Raak or anyone else: there is no agenda to take over the islands. There's no agenda. None. There is only an agenda to ensure that we can invest and that the countries and the islands are doing better. We may differ on this from time to time, but let me say it very loudly. If we continue to do the same thing as for the past ten years, then we know for sure one thing: in ten years' time we will have to conclude that it has not worked. So it will have to be done in a different way. And yes, that hurts sometimes. But you know the proverb of the gentle healers. We must now make the right choices to say in a number of years that we have done the right things. Mr. Chairman. Then I've come to the first block. That's all that's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u84	Mr Van Dam and then Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u85	I think I am very much in agreement with what the Secretary of State has said so far. Only, what's necessary if you want to go that path is that you're connected to each other. As far as Saint Martin is concerned, I am rather concerned about that, and I do not think I am the only one. Could the Secretary of State shed a little more light on that? Maybe he's doing it on another block, but it would help me if he could do it in the debate right now. How's St. Martin? 'Cause that's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u86	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u87	Mr President, those answers were sent at 5:45 p.m. You suspended for an hour. This budget will take place in the first and second instalments on this day. That has some limitations in it. We can just suspend for a while so the MPs can read them. I don't think that's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u88	I don't think that's a problem at all. They really just got in at the Registry. There's been a check to see if she's... That is not the case. They just got in. Whether or not we're suspended is up to the MPs. If that's what you need, we'll do it. No? Then the Secretary of State continues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u89	Yes, connection is very important. That means that if you make agreements, for example, about the fact that a country has agreed to certain conditions and to implement certain reforms, that will actually be done before you get access to another stage. That message was put down very clearly at the beginning. There was also the possibility for countries to say 'we do not', but they agreed in the first and second instalments. Then, of course, we'll see if they've met the conditions. Those conditions are precisely the guarantee that we will do things differently, so that all those things that have been pushed forward over and over again can take place now. We are, of course, speaking with the governments. You're talking to the parliaments. We all read what is written in the newspaper and what is said about it. I'd like to stick to the facts. The facts are that we have made agreements and that we should be able to pay each other for whether we have complied with them. In the history of the last ten years, depending on the governments that were there in the different countries, there have been better and lesser contacts. I am also a little concerned about the pace of developments, for example in the area of reconstruction. That's what I've been telling you before. This point has already been mentioned and I mentioned it in the letter. I have already said that there has also been opposition from the side of Saint Martin. I think that's serious. It's just been actively tried. It's not always exactly traceable where that is, because it could be anywhere. It's possible to make sure that proposals that were there and that were in the interest of the residents weren't implemented because there were personal interests that were apparently greater than the general interest. And then it's very simple, I say in the direction of Mr Van Dam, because then you'll just have to say what you think of that. We do not want to take over anything, because the countries make their own choices, but it is agreed on 10-10 that law enforcement is the responsibility of the countries. Then, of course, we can offer aid, or money in the form of reconstruction funds, we have done so, but in the end the countries themselves will have to make the political choices. That's the construction we're all in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u90	As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna be talking about law enforcement at the AO soon. I also like to stick to the facts, and very concretely. Have you been in contact with the Prime Minister of Saint Martin lately? Are there official consultations currently taking place between your officials and those in Saint Martin? Or is nothing going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u91	Yes, there is. There's a meeting. That could be about law enforcement. This is, of course, also about reconstruction, because in this respect we are also in a construction together. And it's also about the reform entity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u92	I'm really glad you talked to the people we're all doing it for. I hope everyone gets a little better on the islands, especially the people who already have it very bad. I was wondering if you could tell me about the contacts that have been with the small and some larger entrepreneurs. The catering industry is already in trouble here in the Netherlands, but that is of course an even bigger problem there. The hotel sector is also in a very bad way. The same applies to the small shops and the like. A lot of people are employed there, and a lot of people depend on that. All that has to do with each other. It is very important that they also receive this support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u93	Sure. The liquidity support provided has also been partly used to support these groups. What makes it particularly vulnerable is that the economy on St.Maarten, and on Curaçao and Aruba, is almost unhealthy dependent on tourism. And let tourism be one of the biggest victims of this pandemic. I am, of course, limited in my travel movements like you, but I travelled to Bonaire and Curaçao in September. That's where I talked to entrepreneurs. At Bonaire I spoke with a lot of entrepreneurs who are lucky to be under the regime of the Caribbean Netherlands. They were all very happy, I can say here, with the support from the Netherlands. I went to Curaçao, too. That's where I talked to entrepreneurs. Of course, they're in a different regime. So that is something for which the countries themselves bear responsibility, with our support through liquidity support. But the situation is, of course, very critical. The longer this goes on, the more complicated it gets. You can also see that especially people who are day workers or who have flexible jobs are the first to pay the price for this crisis. It's huge. Everyone's gonna get hurt. When you walk around there, you just see it's much quieter. That certainly worries us. That is why we have said that we would like to help. No one came up with covid, but we can see that the effects are enormous, especially in the Caribbean. If you're already dealing with a fragile economy, that was the one in front of it, then that's all the more getting worse. We have an eye for that. That's what we do with the countries. We are also discussing it with the countries. The governments of the countries are also very busy working on it. They have designed all kinds of aid measures, in theory similar to those introduced in the Netherlands. Within the cabinet, we have decided that there will be a similar package on the BES islands, not an identical one but a similar one. That helps a lot there, too. But the question we are asking in the Netherlands How long will it take? Of course, we'll put it there as well. But we said we're gonna do it this way. We hope that this will help a number of companies, particularly vital ones, through the crisis. In this connection, Mr Bishop asked, in connection with covid, how we can spare the islands. Due to flight restrictions and flight bans it is very difficult to reach the islands. Can we apply customization to that, was his question. Those support packages that we have developed for the Caribbean Netherlands apply to all three BES countries. It looks at how we can deliver customization in it. Indeed, the islands are not entirely identical in terms of the labour market. You yourself referred to thezzp'ers on Saba. The flight restrictions are always in consultation with the islands. This is the subject of intensive consultation with the islands. Some people ask why you sometimes go to those kinds of restrictions. It has to be, because if you import covid on the islands, it can become very problematic, because of the limited medical capacity and because everything is flat. So you will have to switch very quickly, but there is intensive contact with the governing of the islands. Mrs Diertens asked about the continuity of public spending on the islands as a result of covid. He's critical. He's very critical. We can see that the liquidity problems are enormous. We make regular assessments, including on the basis of access to the next tranche, of what is needed. That is not always exactly to be estimated, but the CFT makes an assessment of it, with the aim of maintaining the essential facilities, in order to allow all kinds of services that are important for society to operate. We also help with technical assistance. This is also part of the agreements we want to make with the countries, also towards the future. In the end, it is also important to look at those country packages, which are different from one country to another and which have been developed in consultation with them, in particular to see how we can create a situation where the private sector is going to invest. Because you know that you get economic growth mainly from private investments. These are entrepreneurs who see opportunities, who create jobs, but who also have certain conditions and questions about stability and economic prospects. Well, that's complicated right now. Yet you can see that there are still companies, even at the moment, who are sticking their necks out and dare to do so and also provide employment. That's what we're gonna do with the countries. We are, of course, dependent on how covid develops, and there is nothing we can do about that, but we assume that there will be an end to covid and hopefully there will be a vaccine, so that there will again be a perspective for the islands to tackle tourism, to learn a lesson and to develop initiatives around, for example, agriculture and other activities, because I believe that has been too low in recent years. Mrs Dierten asked whether the test capacity on the islands would be sufficient and whether this would not be a problem. This was particularly about the Caribbean Netherlands. That test capacity is always limited. More testing capacity can help to know more quickly how the pandemic is spreading and what its consequences are. I am quite willing to check, in consultation with the VWS Ministry, whether there is sufficient capacity at the moment and whether we have sufficient back-offs. I don't have that ready right now; that's also a responsibility of VWS. My information is that there is sufficient resistance, but in some sense there is always a lack of capacity. There's a lack of everything and the moment you're on an island, you can't move and you're on your own. That is precisely why, at the beginning of the cooperation between the islands and the countries in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom, we looked at how we can work together logistically and medically. Mr Blokhuis has intensive discussions with the islands. Then there is the Caribbean reform entity and the country package, the second block. Mrs Diertens asked about the state of play in the negotiations. It is true that you do not hear all about it. That is because we are negotiating with the governments of the countries and they are also asking for commitment to the proposals as they were made on 10 July. I must say, however, that we are already discussing these proposals. It is not true that it was a take it or leave it scenario, as has been said, because we are indeed talking to the countries to see if there are elements and points that they think can be different and to see if we can reach agreement. That is very specific with Curaçao and Aruba at the moment. That has not yet led to agreement. I am not going to burden the Chamber with sharing information and sharing solutions here at the moment, but as soon as there is agreement, I will inform the Chamber. When it comes to the whole legislative process that lies beneath it, the legal basis for the entity, the administrative body based on Dutch law that goes along with it, it comes naturally after it has been with the Council of State in the end and can be discussed there. Mrs Özütok wondered whether it would be desirable to exercise greater control over the State in the process surrounding the proposal for a state law. As I pointed out in the debate earlier, it is not part of the process at this stage, without prejudice to governments being able to engage in dialogue with the States and to consult the States, but in a formal sense the States will only take their turn later in this process. Their role is therefore not yet formal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u94	Is this the answer to Mrs Özütok's question? Yeah? Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u95	It is not quite clear to me how the Secretary of State sees it. At what point are they going to be discussed? How do you feel about them not being in front, but only getting a little bit of clarity about what the positions are?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u96	As explained in the previous general consultation, the Consensus Law requires agreement at government level on legislative texts and so on, etc. They will then be submitted to the Council of State of the Kingdom. They come back, which can lead to changes. These legislative proposals will then be submitted to the States and the House of Representatives. That is the formal moment when the States can give their say on this. But as I said, I can imagine that the governments say: before we agree, we want to hear the States and get an idea of what that is like. Governments are free to do so, but that is not a formal part of the process of consensual legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u97	I actually want to go on with this, because I think it is important that there should also be support from the countries to participate in that reform entity. My question is therefore: could people from the private sector be involved in the islands? Perhaps a combination can also be made with the Invest-NL story. Now I fill in a lot, but that might be my entrepreneurial background. I think there are so many opportunities. Does the Secretary of State also consider how that entity can take shape? Because it doesn't necessarily have to be a director or a government official, but it does have to be a messed-up group of people who are committed to this with good will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u98	Well, that's a fair question. That is also a question that has been raised in the discussions with the countries. At the moment, the draft legislative text states that the members of that entity are appointed by the Minister for the Interior, but of course we do so in consultation with the countries. Of course, we are looking at whether these people can count on support and what kind of people you need for that. This also applies to more people who are going to work for that entity. That does not necessarily have to be civil servants or administrators. No, there must also be people who have expertise in the various fields. This may be part of the government, but also part of the private sector. So that's all gonna be worked out. But this is important. Look, it's a Dutch entity, based on Dutch law, with Dutch taxpayers' money. We are going to do things with that to make things better in the countries. However, those country packages, which are now part of the consensus-rich legislation and which the entity is working on, have naturally come into being in accordance with the countries. So these are often already plans that the countries themselves had already indicated they should get in. Think of the growth agreement, for example, with Curaçao. Aruba also had a plan with a number of measures they wanted to take. That's not rock science. These are all measures that you could say: of which any economist says they are good to do at the moment. The entity will assume part of this and will be given a responsibility in it. That is exactly what I believe Mr Bosman said: yes, of course it affects autonomy. But, and with this, I don't want to open the whole debate on autonomy, what kind of autonomy is there right now, if you're totally dependent? I have already said before that I want to work to ensure that the countries can regain their autonomy and that they actually have that autonomy again, that they can function as a country and that they can carry out all the tasks and responsibilities associated with it. Well, that's not something you can do tomorrow. We can see that over the last ten years, the bank has not been able to take a break either. It just took a lot of help from the Netherlands. But we want to get to a situation that's gonna be better than it is now. Well, that entity is going to play an important role in that. I will certainly take the point of reflecting the recognizability of the qualified people into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u99	I would like to make a comment about this autonomy, because I feel that this debate is going to lead a bit of a life of its own. I am also tasting from people from the islands I have spoken to, then I am talking about the ordinary people and not the rulers or the people who are on the board, a sense of fear: are we losing them? Then I say a hundred thousand times: no, that is not the intention. In the discussion about what autonomy is, the fear that that autonomy is being taken away is simply an unrealistic fear. I would be delighted if the Secretary of State could confirm that as such.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u100	I can confirm that. I can explain that, too. In fact, if you go into the neighbourhood with the 71-year-old gentleman I spoke to and you ask him what autonomy is, when he is totally dependent on food aid, it is a long way from the abstract discussion about autonomy and political relations. I would rather not say it, but let's just be honest: that autonomy is simply under enormous pressure in practice. I have said before that these countries cannot carry their autonomy at the moment. And I want us to go to a situation where they can. We need to work on that. We'll help with that. Those reforms and conditions are, of course, not without obligation. So we are not about to conclude agreements, and then the countries can say: well, we have reached that agreement, but we are not going to implement those reforms. No, because these reforms are necessary to ensure that public finances are rebalanced, that resources are restored to finance people in the underprivileged, that there is sufficient money for care, for education. Those are all things where it depends a little on the country you're talking about now that are lagging behind. That is the task that lies ahead. I cannot stress enough that it is 5:12, that we have to take those steps now and that it is now up to the drivers to make those choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u101	I think the Secretary of State agrees with me that autonomy doesn't mean you're in business, you're in politics, you're in management, you're in family business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in business, you're in a family business, you're in business, you're in business. Autonomy means you have an elite, a group that takes responsibility for the whole island, for all the people there. I assume the Secretary of State agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u102	Sure. That is why I agreed with your contribution. I think that too much is not happening and that existing interests are sometimes being defended, whereas they are not always the interests of all inhabitants at all. I believe that we have a responsibility to all those people, not just those who can save themselves and who do not pay taxes, but also those who are very vulnerable because they are out of a job and cannot rely on all kinds of facilities. That's not something you do in a year, but you're gonna have to make the right choices. That also means simply, even in politics, holding a mirror: are we dealing with that general interest every day? It's best to disagree ideologically on how a country should look, but I don't think that as a politician you can defend that it's just about your own interest or that of your family. That should be much wider. I'm not saying that's how every politician acts. I'm not saying that, but I see too often that it does happen. I simply have concrete examples of this from the three years I have been responsible. You say that, I say that. I keep saying that, not because everyone does, but because it has to be said to show that it can and must be changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u103	Let's keep that 71-year-old gentleman in mind, who is happy when he reaches the end of the day and has no perspective for tomorrow morning. How are we gonna trust him? Soon we'll have a deal with the governments of Curaçao and Aruba. Maybe a miracle happens and someday we'll have a deal with Saint Martin, who knows. Well, that's all gonna be neat on paper. There's gonna be an entity like that with all the people in it. But how can we give that gentleman the confidence that it's going to happen? Because it hasn't happened in the last ten years. How is that possible? This also applies to the people who are watching the debate here in the Netherlands. We're going to invest a lot of money, really a lot of money. Then how can we give these people a little confidence that something good will happen with it and that it will happen now, when it has not happened in the last ten years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u104	That's a good question. I fully understand that question. I cannot just say reassuring words, because it is really up to the politicians on the islands themselves to make the right choices. In that respect, this phase is a very exciting and also a very important one, because are they willing to make those choices, not only in word but also in action? Hence also the tranche ring, where we look step by step at how we proceed. That's her side by side; that's pulling up together. But if someone is gonna quit... I mentioned the example of Saint Martin and reconstruction. I think that could have been a lot faster. I have many examples of this too. I wrote that in the letter, too. Look, if there's no official capacity or lack of expertise, you can help in that. But if you haven't yet created the conditions for the World Bank to operate, if you just let the airport dangle for a year while everything is ready to run, what are you doing? We don't have time to waste. If you ask me how we can give people that perspective, I say by showing that we, as the Netherlands, want to help the countries within the Kingdom, but also by asking the administrators and politicians to do things differently. I have spoken in the streets, in the neighbourhoods, many people who said: it is very good that the Netherlands makes these conditions, otherwise nothing will change here. I do not know whether it will work, I say in the direction of Mr Van Raak, who has been working on this for so many years. I don't know if it's gonna work, but this is the only way it could. We are here in the Netherlands, in The Hague, having a debate with Dutch taxpayers' money, but it is the politicians and the directors there who have to do it themselves. If they need help, they can count on us, but we're not gonna help them do the wrong things. That's actually the litmus test we're facing right now. I am not pessimistic about it, but when I look at what we have been doing for the past three years, I also realize that it has to do with culture and attitude. Am I prepared to serve that general interest? Am I willing to sell difficult things with the election in sight? These are all questions that every politician and every representative of the people should ask themselves. I can't do that for those people, but I think you'd be heading in the right direction very quickly if everyone were to reason in the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u105	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u106	Mr Van Raak asked a question about the drifting of Saint Martin. I believe that Mr Van Dam asked for this too. Why aren't the countries moving together towards the Netherlands? The countries are moving together and they are also in contact with each other about this kind of thing, but in the end the package for each country is of course something else and perhaps the political constellation is something else. In the end, we are talking to the three individual countries, and that could mean that we will no longer be on a parallel path in some time. This means that we are simply entering a path, including the legislative path, with a country that gives an agreement. We're not gonna wait for the last one to agree. That is also not justified, because the needs are so high that you cannot just wait a few months with liquidity support. We're going to go on those routes separately, but the base for that and the entity with those different departments per country will be similar. "Identical" is perhaps too much said, but the method will be fairly identical, as will the legal basis for that. Mr Bishop asked whether different speeds were possible. So the answer to that is yes. Mrs. Diertens asked if the entity's name was still negotiable. There are a lot of things that we have been discussing in recent weeks and that has also been discussed. Look, the name... You could indeed say that the label that is on it is not insignificant and that the abbreviation that has now been chosen is a little less happy. I am therefore open to any better alternative, let me just put it this way. Mrs Diertens asked whether the unspent money could be transferred to the reform entity set up with the aim of working with local NGOs more quickly and efficiently. That is often money that is already reserved for certain projects, but we also agree very quickly on the issue of these NGOs. We have had a debate on this before. These NGOs have done really good things, even on Saint Martin. Why? Often because it was a matter of capacity, because it was not always unwilling. I do not want to have said that here either, but absorption and implementation capacity are limited. An NGO such as the St. Maarten Development Fund has done really good things in the first phase of reconstruction, but I am not in favour of transferring the funds already allocated to the World Bank to that entity, which has not even been set up. We will also proceed with some sort of quarter-minute makers, before the entity is also formalized in a legal sense. That way we have a vehicle to do those things already. This will not happen in the very short term. But I would really like to separate those two routes. We now have a construction for reconstruction, the trust fund and cooperation with the World Bank. We are still waiting for the establishment agreement and there is a possibility that the World Bank will be able to operate fully and, in good Dutch, with its feet on the ground, boots on the ground. That hasn't been settled yet. There is still a great deal to be done around the waste. This is now too slow and decisions must be speeded up, because the problem is huge. So the answer to your question is that I am not in favour of transferring that money. Mrs Diertens also said that reform is one thing, but it is also about investment. We have talked about this before, and I fully agree with that. The elements in the package that we are now offering are, of course, reforms, which we ask of the countries. There's a big loan in here, I just mentioned it, and it's getting pretty good if covid lasts longer. But there are also investments in them and you will soon see, provided that we can reach agreements with the countries, what these investments involve in the short term. These are investments from the Netherlands, from the entity, but we also want to create an environment that attracts private investors through these reforms. Those investors are, of course, very interested in investing within the Kingdom for all kinds of reasons. For example, our international treaty obligations make the Kingdom attractive to invest and to gain access to the capital market here. But then there must also be politically stable governance. By creating these conditions, you also make it easier to allow private capital and that is ultimately really the accelerator for the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u107	I was also wondering if a call could be made to Invest-NL. There are, of course, opportunities for the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u108	We need to work out whether that's possible, but we could, yes. It's about the thought that brings capital to potential, to enable economic development. If there are good business cases underneath it, as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Chairman. Then I'm already at the third block, Caribbean Netherlands. First of all, the questions put by Mrs Kuik and Mr Bosman, in particular about reducing costs. That is an important point. We have always said that on the one hand it is about improving the income position. If I compare it now to three years ago, I think we have really taken a big step in that direction. Am I completely satisfied? No, I'm not satisfied yet. But it's a step-by-step process. That's what we agreed. You asked a number of questions about this to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment. I think they've been answered today. But I'm getting a little cautious about whether those questions came in here. In any case, I understand that a letter was sent to the Chamber today. At least I've seen and signed that letter, or initialled it. Some of the questions you have asked about this have been answered. I can imagine that this is how I understood it in detail in an ongoing general consultation point of certainty, which you discussed at the procedural meeting. Indeed, as Mrs Kuik said, I think it would be a good idea to close off this cabinet period. That would be my wish, too. You'll find me by your side. Honesty requires saying that by covid the priorities of a number of things I do not put that up as an excuse for the past period. It is true that the cabinet has made available an additional subsidy for the years 2020 and 2021 in the framework of covid, precisely because the problem with the covid outbreak has not diminished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u109	The answers from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs came in at 2 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u110	I am not entirely satisfied with this answer. I understand there's covid, but that's no excuse for something we've been working on for a number of years. 'Cause then I'll know how it goes. Then we still have a pandemic in six months, then Secretary of State Keijzer is doing other things and then we still haven't arranged anything, except the Internet facilities. So I'm just not gonna settle for this. I repeat my question: what is needed, what should I do? To ensure that this is just progressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u111	I wouldn't ask you to do that. I'm not sure you can do that in your current physical condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u112	Well, Mrs. Chicken can do a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u113	Well, I'm curious. The last time I had such a debate was with Mrs Eijsink. That's when the meeting was suspended because someone got the lame smile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u114	I hope she's watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u115	I have indicated that the problem has not yet been resolved; we are not yet where we need to be. I think we really need to take a number of further steps on a number of points. That's what the whole cabinet's gonna do. You can count on me. I referred to the debate that is going to take place anyway. In this context, it may well be possible to say with other administrators that it should not only be on the income side, but also on the cost side. Of course, this occasional contribution due to covid is not a structural solution, but it is helping at the moment. The question from the Chamber is already there. It's been there a long time, by the way. That is also the point: that cost side story is not recent, but it has been there for a long time. However, this question deserves a few positive steps, as on the income side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u116	Lots of beautiful words, little wool. I'm gonna go back and talk to my colleagues and see what we can do. Whether I walk tight or not, I'm stubborn, too. So we're just gonna move on. I just can't do anything with this. It's just air, it's wool...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u117	No one can hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u118	Oh, sorry, Chairman. I said it's air, it's wool, it's nice talk, but eventually nothing happens. So we're gonna have to go back and see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u119	I can't break iron with my hands, I say in the direction of Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u120	Everyone always says that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u121	Yeah, but in this case, it's true. I can only do my best for that. As I said, I very much support the call, because I am sure you have a point. And not only you, but also the Chamber. I would nevertheless like to invite you to reiterate this point in this AO. Mrs Diertens asked whether it would be possible to give greater budgetary flexibility to public bodies. A large part of the budget consists of the free payment from the BES fund. The funds received by public sector bodies as a free payment from the BES Fund are freely available. Tax revenues on the islands are naturally under pressure as a result of reduced tourism revenues. Because of this loss of income, the cabinet has made extra freely available budget available to the BES. This amounts to USD 4.8 million. In addition, EUR 2.8 million has been added to the BES Fund from SZW for island poverty reduction. You know the whole discussion on ibo and Council of State opinions which Mr Van Dam spoke about and which was also sent to you in the written reply. We will, of course, look at the structural solution there. What should change, how should the relationship between public bodies and RCN be different or better, how can we be more effective? In short: what to do on the islands? But that also applies, and that is no excuse, that we have been really working on other things lately: just getting medical capacity in order, assisting the islands, rolling out the support packages for the Caribbean Netherlands. So unfortunately it has been pushed backwards in the planning. But it's not a set-off. It's a delay. This has also been discussed with the islands. Mr Van Dam asks about the elections on St. Eustatius. I sent a letter about that yesterday. I assume it has been received at least by now. But I thought from Mr Van Dam's question that he might not have been able to read that letter yet. It could be. So I'd like to answer that question. The 21st of October are the elections on St. Eustatius. Every effort is made to ensure that these elections are well conducted. When I say this, we're talking about covid, of course. What's happening on the island? At the moment, it is moving in the right direction with the number of infections, but imagine that there will be an outbreak on the island at once and many people will not be able to vote, or otherwise there will be restrictions that will make voting and voting impossible. Then there is the ultimate, but really endimo, after all kinds of other measures have been taken, the possibility to postpone the elections. The Minister of the Interior has sent you a letter about this and I have informed you about it in the interim report. However, I do not expect that to happen. There are all kinds of scenarios on the front with which you can take measures to allow the vote to take place despite covid restrictions. These are the first elections under the covid regime in the Netherlands, in this case Caribbean Netherlands. Of course there will also be a number in Groningen and Brabant. There is a single line here, both for the Caribbean Netherlands and for the European Netherlands. Once again, we want to do everything we can to ensure that these elections take place in an orderly manner, but I cannot rule out anything at all. That's an answer to your question. Then your question about the Bonaire Board Agreement. I went to Bonaire in September. I have seen that things are really moving in the right direction with regard to the governance agreement and priorities. But I'm not satisfied with the pace at which that happens. All this also has to do with the situation we are in. I believe that politics, including Bonaire, has taken a number of good steps. But when I see how long it takes to deal with certain issues, such as an island council, I think it could be done a little faster. That's what I've been talking to the drivers about. I have also encouraged them to do these things now. Because of course this college has been there for a while, and you also want to achieve results and not just have appointments on paper. What is a little bit avenged here is that the position of island secretary has been vacant for far too long. That makes you see in the device that not everything goes well. At the moment, I think we are in the final phase of the selection of the new candidate. I hope that has a positive impact on Bonaire. The finances remain an issue of attention. The CFT has repeatedly stated in its reports that financial management is not yet in order. So that's what we're working on as a priority. But we need to speed it up. I think that it is also important for the people of Bonaire to see the results. The only thing you're seeing right now... Or well, yeah, the only thing... Of course, we have the social rentals and that runs perfectly. I'd almost say that's what's going on. There is also a lot going on on the roads and around infrastructure. Mr Bosman has already mentioned that initiatives are now being taken on agriculture. And the point of Blue Destination, which Mrs Diertens and Mrs Özütok mentioned, needs to be loaded even more. I have spoken with entrepreneurs and directors on this subject. Steps have been taken, but I think it is a little too much of a concept that you could market much more and that is also unique for Bonaire. Because in terms of its natural beauty and its protection, there are many more opportunities for Bonaire. The whole blue economy and Blue Destination is a beautiful concept. Mrs Özütok asked me if I could encourage my colleague from OCW to achieve high-quality education within the Kingdom and avoid any connection problems. I fully agree with you that we should try to prevent it. I will ask my colleague from OCW to pay particular attention to this. I'm telling you. Mr Van Raak I was waiting for it, although he said goodbye to this Chamber next year: is there the planned commemoration of the First Salute in 2026? You can't look far enough ahead. There has been contact with the U.S. Embassy from BZK and it has been agreed to explore possible activities in advance; what could we do? You know I'm very excited about this. This also seems to me to be something to take back after the elections in the United States to see what the flag would be like. But I find the suggestion you have made a very nice moment to work towards in the coming years, also for Saint Eustatius. Because there too a lot is happening at the moment, also in terms of infrastructure and around the water. Questions have been asked about this before. There's still a lot to do, but there too, you can see the progress. I'm very happy about that. Not everything has been solved, but we have taken a lot of steps forward over the past two and a half years, even with all the efforts of the people of Saint Eustatius. Unfortunately, I haven't been there for too long because of the travel restrictions. I understand you also planned a visit that couldn't go on. But at least I'm pretty positive about how things are going there. I hope that this type of initiative, but also the perspective forward, will be widely supported in the newly elected island council even after the elections in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u122	I must admit that that is a bit of my secret agenda, because if the President of America and the King of the Netherlands are there at Fort Orange in 2026, it must be in order. So it also seemed to me to be a very good stick behind the door.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u123	When I didn't know you were leaving the Chamber, I told you once that it seems to me that you should be on a guest list, if there is one. I'm not going over that, but if there's anything I can do about it, I'm definitely gonna argue for it! I'll get to the other stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u124	There are still questions from Mr Bosman and Mrs Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u125	I did a quick scan through the written answers and have a question about the Growth Fund. The minimum amount is 30 million. That's for Saba, Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius maybe a huge bar. Is it possible to get smaller amounts into the Growth Fund? Or do you have to join something? What opportunities do we have to claim this with Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius? 'Cause this is kind of interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u126	Mr Bosman has been told that there has been a lot of discussion about the Growth Fund. Even before it was a fund, there were a lot of claims on it. You want to prevent it from becoming some kind of grabbelton of all small projects. That's why there's a threshold built in. Of course you can win. We also see more and more examples of this among municipalities in the European Netherlands working with public bodies. So you can tap into a project. This may require a little more coordination at the front, but I would think it an extremely bad idea if the islands did not get access through this threshold because they do not often have such large projects. The three islands could also do something together. For example, such a project around nature or agriculture could be done together with three islands. Maybe you won't have enough to meet that threshold. Then you could enter into a collaboration with a municipality in the Netherlands that has a lot of knowledge and skills in this area and is also working on projects. That kind of thing is possible. But I admit that direct access, really the direct access we had, for example, with the regional envelope, where this cabinet, at the start of the reigning period, set aside for Caribbean Netherlands funds, is not in this. But that's certainly not out of the question. So they can hook up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u127	This is gonna be really complicated. They're small islands, small government devices. We are now asking a lot of them to make an investment that is already difficult, also in relation to a country that is about 8,000 kilometers away and with a project... Agriculture on Bonaire is really something else than Agricultural High School Wageningen. How do we get these people together? Is anyone gonna take the initiative? Or do we think, "Well, it's just natural?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u128	No, the discussion about the Growth Fund was very much driven from a European-Dutch perspective, that we do not have a kind of... That's different from the regional envelope we know. This was a very different amount of money and a very different objective. On the scale of the Netherlands, 30 million is not much for a project that really contributes to structural economic development in itself. That's what you're getting at very quickly. But let me give you an example: the ports on St.Eustatius, on Bonaire and certainly on Saba? If you add those kinds of amounts together, you'll come a long way in that direction. They actually contribute to economic development, you might say. That is without prejudice to... This cabinet period we created that envelope. I don't know what next Cabinets are gonna do. But the need to continue investing on the BES is simply present. This is also reflected in the opinions of the IBO and the Council of State. I think that perhaps we should focus not only on this growth fund, but also on whether additional resources are available, such as this cabinet that has made available, in the area of the regional envelope, in the area of infrastructure, which you could also reserve for the islands. These are, of course, agreements made in formation discussions and negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u129	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u130	Yeah, but I didn't want to wait for the election. I think there is money; there are funds available. How do we tap that in? That's right, 30 million. If we take the 10% rule, it's 3 million. Then make a 10% rule for Bonaire, Saba and Saint Eustatius. If we have to arrange that as a room, I'm fine with it. But how are we gonna do it? Money is available and it is payable, but the islands are not going to do so. They don't have the capacity and the time for that, and they don't know what kind of money we have here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u131	No, but we can help with that from KR and BZK. Of course, we are already doing this, by the way, in another department, around the ports. There are quite a few challenges on Sint-Eustatius and Saba around the ports and also wishes for economic development and because of the fact that the port on Saba has been completely destroyed in the previous hurricane and that there really has to be something else for that. That's about some pretty big projects. We have now largely regulated funding for this on the basis of the regional envelope, so that is not a problem at the moment. The question is: do we want to use the money to look for projects or are there projects and are we going to see how we can finance them? The objectives of the Growth Fund are very different in size from the size of the envelopes we are generally talking about in the Caribbean Netherlands. I am not saying that they should not be allowed access, because they can, especially as a partner of Dutch municipalities or other governments. Then you can also get to such an amount; that is just possible. Directly, that will be more difficult, because you don't easily get to such an amount of investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u132	I am very pleased with the progress we have already made in relation to libraries, especially in terms of content. But the Secretary of State is also always talking about the integrated approach and how we can take things together. We just talked about investments. We invest in nice prisons. We're investing in firehouses. We invest in a beautiful accommodation for the RCN and such. How nice would it be if we could also invest in a community center, in a modern central library that is a center for personal development, if we could also make that happen on those islands? Then it's about an accommodation. Then it's about a building where ordinary people can go, work with a computer and do their training so that they don't have to fly to the Netherlands. There is a real need for that. That would be more beneficial for the community itself. The Secretary of State himself has a weakness for digitisation training and so on. Well, that could be perfect there, too. I would ask this Secretary of State to what extent there is an opportunity to invest in this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u133	What Mrs. Diertens says is absolutely true. It's very important that you have those facilities. Those facilities may also provide an opportunity to accelerate digitalisation around. We have information points Digital Government in the Netherlands. They are often housed in libraries, because there are many people who can get there. I've had that question before. I would like to discuss this with the colleague from OCW, under whose responsibility this is. Library work is really a responsibility of OCW. I am not against this, let me just say, but everything is a matter of weighing up and priorities. I would ask Mrs Diertens to raise this point there too, and I will do so myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u135	Then Mr Van Raak. I was afraid he was going to fly in consultants for that evaluation, but that would be a bit contradictory and I don't know him that way. He is consistent in his views. I would point out that the previous motion of his hand, together with Mr Bosman, is currently under preparation. That was the motion that called for an opportunity to discuss those statutory political relations. The question was, let me say for a moment, whether I was prepared to address the countries and ask them if they would do so. That is what I believe was during the previous budget debate. That took a while. There were very quick reactions from Aruba and Curaçao and those from St.Maarten we received a few months ago. They were all positive. Of course, the whole covid crisis has overcome that. I also understand the question that was asked in the event of interruption whether this is the time to talk about these political relations. As far as I'm concerned, it's okay. I am just a little reluctant to make this very big now, when I just see that the countries at the moment have to make every effort to cope with the crisis they are in. I'm not saying that it's not a good idea, because I think it's always good, and I'm really sorry to say that I agree with you to look back at what you can learn from it. There's a book coming out this week, too. At least that's what I'm offered. That is, of course, not an official evaluation. That's a kind of bundling of views, images and visions, of how people look at the past ten years. That is extremely interesting, but I think that all facets are about to return to the playing field. What you're asking is something else. I think that can be linked to your earlier motion, last year's. I do not know how Mr Van Raak sees it, but I saw a lot of parallels. If you're gonna think about how you want to move on, you're gonna have to look back at how it went. I'm always in favour of that. I'm in favour of that kind of conversation. I'm just a little reluctant when it comes to the fact that we're going to change political relations. That's not my intention, anyway. Those are discussions that take a long time. And let's get back to the people you meet who are now in poverty. The question is, what good is that going to do for them tomorrow? That's what I'd like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u136	I agree with the Secretary of State. We must first combat the crisis, the covid crisis. I am very pleased that all three countries, including Saint Martin, have now responded. I wonder if we can get it. The Secretary of State is right to say that this is an additional thing for that, that you are also going to look independently at what has gone wrong. You don't have to do that tomorrow. It doesn't have to be a whole committee, it has to be a gentleman or a lady who's going to look at it independently. Several people have contributed to the book the Secretary of State talks about. So do I. I can assure you that's very subjective. I need an objective opinion, an objective analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u137	The question is whether this doesn't apply a bit: where you sit is where you stand. The question is whether there is real objectivity here, because it is also about normative views on how governments should function and how countries within the Kingdom should relate to each other. Anyway, that's a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u138	No, the research needs to be much more boring. Just a gentleman or lady watching the trial around 10-10-10, the years before 10-10-10. How did that work? What kind of arrangements were made there? Why were these appointments made? What happened? Is there any way to explain why things went well and why things didn't go well? Are there lessons to be learned for the coming period, if we still have to pull this Kingdom out of the swamp again? Such an objective, clear analysis, not with all political opinions. A gentleman or lady who's going to look at that as objectively as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u139	If you want to do something like that, I think that's the only way to do it, at least if you want to do it right, if you do that with all four countries. At least, with the agreement of all four countries. You can of course order from the Netherlands to do so, but it is the question whether that is already colored in front. I would be happy to discuss this with the countries, in line with the discussions we are about to have on your motion last year. The first talks on this matter have not yet taken place. I think we got that letter from Saint Martin three months ago. I'm gonna take a look at the prison. Hello!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u140	Maybe you'll come back to this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u141	Well, no, we can do that now. Yeah, it's been three months. Then we were in the middle of the covid crisis, so we didn't pick it up anymore. But I would like to try one way or another to include Mr Van Raak's proposal in this process and to discuss it with the countries. I think that's so neat. I'm not against it. Maybe we can think of a form in which this could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u142	Thank you for that, but I don't need it with the countries. I don't need to have a committee with someone from the Netherlands, someone from Aruba, someone from Curaçao and someone from Sint-Maarten who will then join each other. No, I just want this for ourselves. I would like to look back at the process as it has taken place here, with, of course, a look at how things have been in the countries from our perspective. But I don't want a committee, all states and consultants; no, especially not. I just want a gentleman or a lady to look at that decision-making process as objectively as possible. So it must be quite classical historical work, I can say. How did it happen here? That must be done with the equipment that we can deliver for that purpose, for ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u143	I'd like to think again about how that's possible. I would therefore like to inform Mr Van Raak whether he can and, if so, how.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u144	I see Mr Bishop. Would you like to ask a question? No. I suggest the Secretary of State proceed. Don't get close, Mr. Bosman and Mr. Van Dam. Mr. Van Dam has a mouth cap, but you still have to keep your distance. The mouth cap doesn't replace it, does it? All right, continue, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u145	In his contribution, Mr De Graaf asked if I would be prepared to consider a smaller role for the Netherlands within the Kingdom. That's how I took the question a little bit. Can't we make our role a little smaller instead of bigger? That's about what you asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u146	Maybe it's useful to specify something. I didn't ask for a smaller role of the Netherlands. I asked more if the Secretary of State is prepared to ask the other countries to work on their own departure from the Kingdom. This may ultimately reduce the role of the Netherlands in the Kingdom, because then we will have a completely different Kingdom. But my question is more as to whether the Secretary of State is prepared to raise this issue with those countries, so that they themselves will think a little more about their own responsibility. That is why I have thought: I will ask the question this year with a little more kindness and grace. This would indeed reduce the responsibility of the Netherlands for those other countries, and ultimately no longer the responsibility of the Netherlands for those other countries. I think I've asked the question so much more specifically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u147	I would suggest that Mr De Graaf should just make his questions clear next year. Now I understand Mr De Graaf's question too. I am not prepared to ask the countries to leave the Kingdom. That is really up to the countries themselves. I see, however, that in the present state relations, within the legal context, we must in a way relate to each other and, to a certain extent, we are trying to reduce our role by giving the countries more autonomy and giving them autonomy. So you could actually say that the measures we are about to take in the context of the reforms will help to strengthen the countries and give them more perspective, and that there is less need to lean on the Netherlands in many situations. I do not know whether that is a satisfactory answer for Mr De Graaf, but I would not go beyond that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u148	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u149	Mr Bishop asked another question about the general practitioners on St.Maarten. There would be an ageing population and many general practitioners would stop there. What does that mean, then, Mr Bishop asks. This is a subject that, frankly, I am not entirely at home in. I've been trying to figure out what the possibilities might be. If there were real acute problems with certain professions, Saint Martin could apply for assistance. But this is usually something you can provide. This is what you see coming and happening. I would therefore like to pass on this question to Mr Blokhuis to see if he recognizes this problem and what we can possibly do from the Netherlands to help Sint-Maarten. For example, as sometimes happens on the other islands, we could encourage people to work there for a while, which would not cause these problems. Mr Van Dam and Mr Bishop have asked questions about the prison in Saint Martin. A general consultation on the prison system is scheduled for 5 November. I understand that the Minister for Legal Protection was invited to this. I agree with everyone who says that progress in recent years has been far too slow on this point too. I've seen a lot of people come by in the different meetings I've had with the government of Saint Martin. I have spoken with the Minister of Justice, with senior officials who changed over and over again, with new prison directors: there was no continuity. The first signals that I now get from the current government of Saint Martin show that they want to take this seriously and that together with Saint Martin we can also see how we can investigate a business plan for a new prison. Because that's the starting point. The current circumstances are simply not acceptable, even within the Kingdom. We all agree on that. It is a national responsibility, so the Netherlands can help. We have knowledge and skill. But that also applies: it takes two to tango. Sint-Maarten must also show real willingness to reserve room for this in the budget in the long term too. We have a lot of experience in setting up things like this, so we can really help each other out. We will discuss this further in the debate on 5 November. Mrs Diertens reports that a number of refugees would be detained in the foreign detention in Curaçao for more than six months. She's asking what I'm gonna do with that. Every time we get these signals, we come into contact with the authorities, in this case in Curaçao. That's their jurisdiction, too. I also agree with Mr Bosman that it is not for me to judge from a distance whether or not those conditions are met. However, we have indicated that we can provide assistance if requested. We have also made funds available before. But we cannot go beyond that on this point. Mrs Özütok's question was about the reception of Venezuelan refugees. Is human rights the same as we do in the Netherlands for these people? No distinction shall be made in the provision of humanitarian aid on the basis of the residence permit. This aid continues to offer the Netherlands. It is important that foreigners in a country are treated and received in a way that is not contrary to national and international rules. It is not up to me but to the authorities and the judiciary of the countries to assess whether these standards are being complied with in a specific situation. Mrs Diertens asked whether the Netherlands could encourage the said cooperation with NGOs to have sufficient financial resources to enable legal aid to be granted. Is the cabinet prepared to provide financial assistance in this respect, as it itself states in the letter? Last Friday I informed you by letter that the Curaçao authorities indicated that cooperation is currently being sought with some local NGOs in the field of legal aid for foreigners, which could play a role in the provision of legal aid. It is therefore up to Curaçao and not the Netherlands to decide whether these organisations should receive funding. The Netherlands is currently not a party to this exploration and will not finance legal aid in Curaçao in view of the situation in the Kingdom. At the request of Curaçao, the Netherlands is willing to help explore opportunities for third party financing. Mr Van Raak asked about the status of the dispute settlement. Right? I think you said something about that. I see you shaking no. But do you want to know? Yeah? This is currently in the Upper House. Then Mrs. Dierten's question about gay marriage. It is really up to a country itself to look at the possibilities of organising a gay marriage and to translate it into legislation. As a Dutch cabinet, we do not take part in this. Mrs Kuik asked if the cabinet could give the language Papiaments the same status as other minority languages such as Limburg. I also sometimes feel like a minority, I sometimes say in Limburg. But don't worry, I'd like to say, we're just different from others, so that's very special. But I would like to say to Mrs Chicken: señora Chicken, hopi bon ku bo ta pidi atenshon pa idioma Papiamentu. I hope Mrs Kuik is satisfied with this answer. The Dutch translation is: Mrs. Kuik, great that you ask attention for the Papiaments. I would ask you to make this point with my colleague next week in the Home Affairs budget, but I will certainly support it wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u150	Muchu danki.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u151	Well, it turned out okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u152	Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered all the questions. If that's not the case, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u153	Thank you for answering the questions, both in writing and during the debate. Then we'll move on to the second term. No, you want a short suspension. About how many minutes? Ten minutes. Does everyone agree that we're suspending until 7:40? Yeah? Just a little touch, 'cause nobody's looking at me. Ten minutes? Yes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u154	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u155	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That will be brief again. I have one motion. I have just had a very small interrupting debate with the Minister. However, on that point I would like to ask the Chamber for a ruling, precisely because of the kindness and grace I have shown this time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the present time requires each country to take responsibility for dealing with problems on its own;]] [[Whereas the decolonisation process is complete;]] [[Whereas self-sufficiency begins when it comes to responsibilities;]] [[calls on the government to serve the interests of the people of the Netherlands and to call on the other countries to leave our Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IV-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u156	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u157	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u158	Mr. Chairman. When you hear my input in the first term, sometimes the courage comes down on you and you say, "Isn't there anything new under the sun?" Of course, Mr Van Dam speaks to me: is there nothing positive? Of course, there's a lot of positives. The positive thing we actually notice every time we get to the islands is the people. The people on the islands. They are enthusiastic, full of ambition and full of desires to be good for them too: the children to school, good roads, chance of work and all those things more. But then I'm just really frustrated that we're dealing with an administrative elite. Of course that does not apply to everyone; there are also good ones. But the mores there are still "friends and family" and "getting care of yourself before you get to the county board." That frustrates me. Of course I am positive about the islands, about the people, about the opportunities and about the possibilities, but I am and remain critical of the drivers. I'm learning from history, too. Mr. Van Raak sits here much longer than I do and he learns from history every time. This means that sometimes you have to make hard, clear appointments. We also thought ten years ago that we had made those hard deals, but then you come to the conclusion that it didn't turn out to be what you had hoped for. For if the agreements of ten years ago had actually been completed and actually achieved, then the countries would have been better off now. I'm really convinced of that. Mr. Chairman. With regard to Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius, the group for which we are really responsible, it is right that we rename the concerns here. Of course, the Secretary of State also says: how do we proceed with the cost side? 'Cause he sees it, too. Here again, I would like to mention the positive side of the steps that have been taken. Of course many steps have been taken, also on Bonaire, also on Saba and also on Sint-Eustatius. It sounds almost mean, but Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are almost jealous of what is happening on the islands, what support is being given there and to what rest comes there because people still have an income when they lose their jobs and there is still progress in support. I'm proud of that. That is also entirely and absolutely a credit to this Secretary of State. Let me compliment him, too. Mr. Chairman. We had a little discussion about the Growth Fund and the opportunities there are to reduce the cost of living with an investment. The Growth Fund is important for the Netherlands, but it would be nice if Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius could tap out of it as well. I made a motion for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the islands of Bonaire, Saba and Sint-Eustatius there are opportunities for projects that can contribute to R&D and innovation, infrastructure (including energy) or knowledge development;]] [[Whereas the islands themselves are too small to make the necessary investments for such projects;]] [[Whereas the recently established Growth Fund can provide a solution to this problem;]] [[Considering that projects should have a minimum size of 30 million in order to be able to receive support from the Growth Fund;]] [[noting that the relatively small BES islands are therefore unlikely to benefit from this aid;]] [[calls on the government to examine how Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius could claim more and more easily, for example, the National Growth Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bosman, Mr Chicken, Mr Diertens and Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IV-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u159	Finally, I would like to say a word to my good colleague Ronald van Raak: war buddy of the last ten years, fighting corruption. He's been successful: TBO. We wrote an initiative paper together. The special thing was that when there was a Bosman/Van Raak motion in the VVD group, everyone started to move a little nervously: it can't be true that we are going to support the SP? Thank you for your wisdom, your ambition and your drive to do the right thing for the islands, but especially for the people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u160	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering our questions and his commitment that he is willing to look together with the OCW executive at the connection to Dutch higher education for the Caribbean Netherlands. Then I have another motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the COVID-19 pandemic has a major impact on the whole of the Kingdom of the Netherlands and the countries must cooperate closely and monitor each other's circumstances;]] [[whereas a Dutch Zbo is given the direction of providing financial support to the countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but these countries and their representatives are not involved in the decision-making of this Zbo;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how participation, parliamentary control and differences of understanding of the countries can be achieved in the National Caribbean Reform Entity Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IV-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u162	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his answers. There was some discussion about the timeliness of a letter. If you look at it in the Antillean Time Joint, it was actually five and a half hours early! They live there six hours earlier, so everything is relative. I would have liked to have tabled a motion on free media, but I have read the answer and we should not table motions on points that are already provided with an answer. I was supposed to be flying the flag this weekend. I'm gonna do that, but I'm gonna do something else. 'Cause I'm going to the movies. I'm going to Buladó; I don't know if I'm speaking it right. That seems to be a film in which the Curaçao landscape and a Curaçao story are central. And well, let us also mention those positive things here. What I would also like to consider is the following. Mr Van Raak has hinted at a historical investigation by a gentleman or a lady, as he said. I know a historian who will soon be released and available on the market. Let's stop him from going to work as a consultant. I'd like to suggest that he might be a very suitable person to look at that very independently. Finally, Mr President, a slightly more serious point. Last week and the week before, we had contact with the States and the island councils. Yesterday, a letter came in from Saba's island council. It may be a bit of a procedural point that I am putting forward, but I also find it respectful to the island council and the authority on Saba, because they have sent a letter with all the points that concern them. I was wondering if the Secretary of State might be prepared to respond in writing to that letter. Once again, it may be more of a matter for the procedural meeting, but that letter was written specifically for the budget debate. So maybe he can respond to that. If necessary, I would be happy to put that letter to the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u163	Thank you. The clerk tells me that movie's beautiful. So it's highly recommended. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u164	Mr. Chairman. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation into the decision-making process surrounding the new political relations ("10-10-10") and on the lessons to be learned to improve relations between them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raak and Bosman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u165	Friendship and respect: you don't do that by looking away and talking it right. Friendship and respect, also in the Kingdom, you do by looking at each other and telling each other the truth. I would like to thank Mr Bosman. I thank him for the battle we have fought, but I would also like to thank the Secretary of State. Looking straight at each other and telling the truth. I've been through a lot of rulers, but I have to say that I had a feeling with this regiment that it's the right man in the right place. Keep looking at them; keep telling them the truth, not because we have a finger and know better, but out of friendship and respect. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u166	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u167	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm still an optimist. I am also because there has been contact with a number of young people on Bonaire who have launched a citizens' initiative. With their knowledge and experience, they would like to contribute to economic development and growth on the islands, from the Netherlands, because they study here, or from there. These young people want to take the lead themselves. I'd like to support that. I am very grateful to the Secretary of State for his commitment to a broad, beautiful representation in that entity, or whatever name it will get. I think we need to act in particular. There's no need to speak alone. Good plans that are already in place need to be continued. I'm happy about that. I also like to hear how Invest-NL can get a real place in that. I'm glad the Secretary of State wants to investigate. I am also pleased that the free distribution and finance of the BES islands are being reviewed. We can come back to that. I'm still worried about social benefits. They were then set at 70% of the benchmark. I think she might... Or maybe, I actually think they should go up, because covid stays between us for a while. I do not believe that the economy there will now be a very strong development. Of course, I will continue to talk about the content of the library, because I think there should be a decent building, not some cool part of an old supermarket with some books left. There needs to be a really nice community centre, where ordinary people can meet, where people can study, where people can enrich themselves with culture, reading and digital development. One question has not yet been answered, about the supply of drinking water on Sint-Eustatius. There's trouble. Finally, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer to the question about the refugees in Curaçao. I understand that Curaçao is partly responsible for this, but I am very sorry that 43 refugees, of which two minors, have been in a barracks since 8 September, are in block 1-15 Venezuelans, of which five are longer than six months and one is longer than fifteen months. He was in custody at first, but has now been acquitted. For 58 Venezuelans there is still no social assistance or legal aid. I would like to call on Curaçao to do so, because this goes against universal human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u168	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u169	Mr. Chairman. The last budget debate with Mr Van Raak. I used to call them the Statler and Waldorf of the committee. I'm more of a Miss Piggy myself. Despite all the differences of opinion, we have always worked very well together, so you are going to miss this committee very much. Those who are still in it after the elections must of course wait, but it does show that a little knowledge helps to understand what is going on and that it is also a long-term issue; you do not always have to hang out, but it is good to always stay in touch with each other. All right, here's what I'm gonna do. Covid, Wgp, a growth fund. Whether or not I agree with the proposals, let us please bear in mind that we have three municipalities that are not linked to Delfzijl but are simply part of our Kingdom, because I always catch us not taking that into account. That was a general notion. I have another question about the mortgage. When does the pilot start? I think the Charles Doorman is a missed opportunity. The point about the Papiaments is for your colleague. Masha danki!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u170	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u171	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Secretary of State for answering the questions and the warmth with which that happened. I do recognize a huge commitment to the job that can be done there. I have always had some doubts about the position of a coordinating govern ment, but those doubts do disappear a little when I see the enthusiasm with which this Secretary of State fulfils that task. I would like to table a motion for a resolution which concerns the general practitioners of Saint Martin. I understand the Secretary of State says he should leave that to his colleague Blokhuis. My question to the Secretary of State is whether this motion can be taken on board, so that, hopefully, for the budgetary treatment of VWS, the person in charge has responded to that motion in substance. I'm doing this because this Secretary of State is coordinating government for the Caribbean. I'll file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the availability of general practitioner care is an essential basic provision, particularly in the current circumstances;]] [[noting that approximately half of the general practitioners on St.Maarten seem to retire within three years;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the National General Medical Association, to consider the possibilities for contributing to the availability of sufficient general practitioners on St.Maarten,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IV-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u172	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u173	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. Five motions have been tabled. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u174	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to Members for their contribution in second term. A number of motions have been tabled and a number of further questions put. I'll start with the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u176	I would like to withdraw my motion in order to avoid an explanation that would later prove that the motion is being withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u177	Since the motion-Bosman c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u178	Then the motion to part No. 8 by Mr De Graaf. It calls on the government to serve the interests of the people of the Netherlands, as it does every day, and I can tell him, but then also to call on the other countries to leave our Kingdom. Well, I indicated earlier in the debate that this cannot be done on the basis of political relations. That is therefore a free choice, which is up to the countries themselves. This is part of the self-determination that one has. I'm not going to ask the countries to make that choice either, so I have to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 10 by Mrs Özütok. This is about the governing body: how participation, parliamentary control and differences of understanding for the countries can be achieved in the National Caribbean Reform Entity... I'm just checking. That motion calls for consideration to be given to how this participation and parliamentary control can be achieved, I have to say. I have just indicated that the roles assigned to the various bodies, such as parliaments and the States, are so in the legislation that, in a formal sense, there is that involvement but not at this stage. In view of the fact that the draft legislative proposal for the Consensus Act is still pending, I would therefore like to ask Mrs Özütok to hold this motion until that parliamentary debate. It will then be possible to deal with all these issues. Then Mrs Özütok will also be able to assess whether the concerns that are actually a little echoed in that motion are sufficiently taken up and addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u179	I'm willing to do that. I'm holding my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u180	At the request of Mrs Özütok, I propose her motion (35570-IV, No. 10), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u181	Then the motion to part No. 11 by Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman. It calls on the government to conduct an independent investigation into the decision-making process surrounding the new state relations and on the lessons to be learned to improve relations between them. I think it's always good to look back, too, to learn lessons. Of course, a study by Gert Oostindie c.a. has already been published in 2012. It was called "Shared Kingdom, the dismantling of the Netherlands Antilles." I think you know that book. A lot of research has been done on it. I am a little less optimistic about this than Mr Van Raak, because I think that will require a little effort. I'd like to think about that. If Mr Van Raak is prepared to hold his motion, I would like to assure him that I will inform him of how that could be done. And as I pointed out in the first term, I would also like to include that in his earlier motion. The start of the implementation has been taken up, but it is far from being carried out and it is touching on this very strongly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u182	With that deal, I'm gonna hold her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u183	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u184	At the request of Mr Van Raak, I propose his motion (35570-IV, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u185	Then there is Mr Bishop's motion on item No. 12, in which the government is invited, in consultation with the LHV, the National Family Doctors Association, to consider the possibilities for contributing to the availability of sufficient general practitioners on St.Maarten. I'd like to ask you to hold that motion. I will then promise him to ask my colleague from VWS to send a letter to the Chamber before the budget is discussed so that Mr Bisschop could then submit that motion to the VWS budget. Of course, I cannot entirely anticipate the substantive answer, but that would be my proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u186	That seems to me to be a very workable route. So hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u187	At the request of Mr Bishop, I propose his motion (35570-IV, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u188	What exactly are we going to vote on? Do we have another motion? One motion. Well, then it's settled. I see the Secretary of State has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u189	Well, I have a few more questions that I've been asked, which I'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u190	Yeah, that'd be fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u191	These include the supply of drinking water and its availability on Sint-Eustatius. That was a question from Mrs. Diertens. Based on information I have received, I am assured that this year, 2020, the main water supply will be replaced and the production capacity of the drinking water plant doubled by the end of the year. Storage capacity has been increased, with which there is also a structural solution. That should therefore be settled by the end of the year. Mr Van Dam asks if I can respond to the Saba Island Council letter. I am happy to do so, but since the content of that letter is largely about policy areas outside my direct responsibility, I will at least take that letter with my fellow Members, in this case the State Secretary for Finance. I think I will combine that with the further letter on the aid package 3.0 for the Caribbean Netherlands, if he agrees. Mrs Diertens asked about Invest-NL and what we can do with it. It seems to me that investment is incredibly important and that we are going to see which vehicle is best suited to it. I will also discuss this with colleagues in the cabinet. I think it should be about the purpose and the instrument is always subordinate to it, but I am going to look at it. With regard to the issue of benefits that you made, I refer to the debate on 5 November. That debate seems to me to be the perfect reference point for this to be discussed. With regard to Mrs Kuik's question on mortgage pilots, I would like to make an extreme effort, and I am doing my best; that is an effort because next week the budget of BZK is already ready to send you a letter with the information on the NHG and the banks involved in this process. I do not have that information at the moment; it is with my colleague in the Interior, among others. But I am doing my best to send it to you for next week's budget debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u192	I'd love to. We can do that together with the request about the Papiaments. Then we can tap that next week and get some results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the end of my term and I thank the Chamber for its cooperation over the past year. I look forward to the coming year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u194	Thank you. Also thank you for the way in which the questions were answered: very briefly and also to the point. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-tweedekamer-14.u195	We shall vote on the motion tabled later. For now, I'm suspending the meeting until, I think, 8.30 p.m. But it may also take a little longer, because we still have a VAO and the general consultation is still ongoing. Before you leave the room, I'd like you to join me. I shall now suspend the sitting until approximately 8.35 p.m.
