ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	The issue now is the amendment of the Embryo Act in relation to the adaptation of the ban on sex selection and use of sex cells and embryos for quality control (35173). I would like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	By way of derogation from the list of speakers, I shall first give the floor to Mr Jansen on behalf of the PVV. Mr. Jansen is making his maiden speech. As you know, it's common in this house not to interrupt a maiden speech. I call Mr Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to my colleagues for allowing me to start as the first speaker. I'm a kid from the sixties, but my parents weren't hippies. That's a good thing. Otherwise, perhaps I would have made a plea on behalf of another party to get the whole of the Netherlands legally on hard drugs. Doesn't make anyone happy. My parents worked hard to move forward in life and give their children a beautiful, educational childhood. They weren't happiness seekers who came here to digest our pot, they were ordinary people. Islam didn't bother us at all in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. In my youth, everything was much simpler. Internet, games and social media: no one had heard of it. We played outside with a ball, played tag or pigeon rings or marbles. We had a black and white TV with a limited number of channels and few programs that were fun for children. Slowly this got a little better. We got a color television and there were more fun shows. And suddenly there was a television show called The Man of Six Million. The recipe was simple and afterwards all super fake, but before that it was really cool. He was a human being with robotic technology, bionic, cybernetics, which made him some kind of superhuman, a hero who fought evil and helped people in need with his special robotic powers. The story was based on the novelle Cyborg. Mr. Chairman. That brings us to the heart of this debate. The six million-dollar man became half a robot because he would die otherwise. It was to allow him to live on in a human way. It was an ethical consideration to save him. Components that no longer functioned were replaced by bionic implants. The question before us today is whether we want to save children serious suffering in advance and whether we want to give them a decent life, because this is possible through a medical procedure. The previous cabinet's bill on allowing embryos for research under strict conditions has been withdrawn by this cabinet. Opponents are afraid of the emergence of wish medicine: a baby on order, with the characteristics you wish for. Proponents point to the elimination of hereditary diseases and more insight into fertility aspects. The balance between opponents and opponents is shaky. That is why social dialogues have been decided. The PVV Group fully agrees with that. In medical-ethical matters, we prefer care rather than being carried away by the fascinating vision of the future of scientists. For this reason, I say 'fascinating', because if we can prevent serious diseases through embryo research, then we have to go in that direction. But as far as our group is concerned, it has to be done with small steps. The present bill is such a small step. The choice of sex is allowed if it reduces the risk of serious medical suffering of the future child. The motive is not the parents' preference for a boy or a girl, but the desire to spare their child serious suffering. As far as the PVV Group is concerned, that is a small but good step. We have also advocated the extension of carrier tests before. As far as we are concerned, greater steps should be taken. The other amendment that makes this bill possible is the use of residual embryos for quality control. An example is the calibration of equipment, the testing of culture media, the optimisation of genetic testing and the training of new employees. The quality assurance is defined, I wonder. Or are these a few examples and are there much more to quality assurance? And how did this quality assurance take place so far? I'd like a response from the Minister to that. But this small step can also count on the consent of the PVV group. Then we respond to Mrs Ploumen's amendment to introduce a 'no, unless' with regard to the cultivation of embryos for research. It seems that it meets the wishes of the scientists more than the wishes of the Dutch citizens. She cites a recital from the previous cabinet: if it is possible to do so abroad, Dutch parents want it too. But isn't that what is now being investigated through social dialogues? I wonder what the Minister thinks of this. The PVV Group prefers to wait for the outcome of the dialogues. We take the consultation of our citizens seriously. Finally, Mr Hijink's amendment on the special cultivation of embryos for research into culture fluids. That makes sense, but in our opinion, put the door open to other research with farmed embryos. Because why should we allow this and not investigate other things? Who's gonna decide that? We believe that we must wait for the social dialogue before we take a decision on it. But we'd like to hear the Minister's response. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you for your maiden speech, Mr. Jansen. It is always special to make a maiden speech, because there is always a personal... Don't run away! You're gonna stay right here. There's always a personal aspect to it. I would like to congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	Let's move on to the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks. I say to Mr Jansen: enjoy the moment, because it is not always a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I remember very well that I gave my maiden speech and that Mr Van der Staaij was the first speaker to respond to it, because that is good practice in this Chamber. So that's what I'd really like to do. It was a nice speech by Mr Jansen. I think his speech clearly shows that we have so many different voices in this house and that we all bring our own personal history. Mr Jansen spoke about the TV show The man of six million. From my time as a little girl, I remember Maja de Bij and other characters with magic wands that showed me that you can achieve so much and that magic and beautiful new things are sometimes closer than you think. Thank you so much for your lovely speech. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to my own speech. I remember very well that I visited Mr Sjoerd Repping, who was then still head of reproductive medicine in the then AMC, the current UMC Amsterdam. I think that was about two years ago. He's a clinical embryologist. We know him now, of course, mostly from the new assignments he has received to look at sensible care, but then he was passionate and involved with a lot of expertise in reproductive medicine. I was really impressed with everything they were doing at the AMC. There's a private egg bank there. He could also show how he and his colleagues were able to translate the fundamental research they did very nicely and sometimes quickly into concrete treatment options for wishing parents, couples who would like to have a child. The difference between basic research on the one hand and increasing treatment options on the other hand is therefore sometimes smaller than we think. I also remember that it impressed me how he was doing research to ensure the fertility of young boys who had to undergo chemotherapy at a young age, with the risk of fertility. So that's about making it possible for them to be fertile even later. These are examples of research that is very close to people's practice, lives and fertility. That's really impressed me. These researchers, these Dutch top researchers, can mean an enormous amount to people with a wish for children. I have also kept up with how carefully they work. For all these researchers, care is at one. Mr. Chairman. We're talking about a change to the Embryo Act. This is actually very much in line with the stories and practice of Sjoerd Repping and other researchers, namely how we can prevent the transferability of a serious hereditary disease related to gender. Besides, there's a difference between boys and girls. In some diseases we know that there is a greater chance that boys transmit those diseases and in other diseases that girls transfer them. That's what we call "embryo selection." Honesty commands me to say that I hadn't heard from LHON myself. It's also called "Leber's disease." What do we want to prevent now? I've been looking up what that is. As I understand it, this disease actually creates an error in the genetic material, in which it is explained that the energy factories that make our bodies do not function properly, which does not produce proteins properly. That's why cells can't function properly. That works through in a number of areas for people, especially for boys. It may mean that they can't see properly or see less and less clearly, but it may also mean that their brains can function less well or that their heart functions less well. So it's a big deal when you're burdened with this disease. We know that the odds of boys getting this disease are much greater than girls. So I think it is extremely important that we prevent this disease from being transmitted. In the end, of course, it remains a personal choice, but I think we certainly want to make it possible as parents to prevent this. The other diseases in which we want to prevent transferability, if parents so wish, are hereditary breast cancer and ovarian cancer. Unfortunately, like many of us, they are known to me. It's even getting really close to me. It's a disease that's been common in my family for three generations. Just because it's common doesn't mean it's hereditaryly transferable, but you may have an increased chance. What I'm taking is that I can imagine the stress and the worries it gives if you know that you're more likely to get this disease or that it's hereditaryly transmitted. You spend your life walking around making sure you possibly get this disease. We also know how profound this disease is. I think this is an example of a disease in which it is extremely important that we prevent it from being transmitted, if it is possible and desirable from the parents. The good thing about the proposal we are discussing is that a very careful process has been created. There are multidisciplinary teams and there is the National Indicative Committee PGD. I have to say that with this legal treatment, sometimes it's like I'm questioning my son with all those abbreviations, definitions and terms like "what was it again?" Penetration? Oh, incidence, says the Minister; thank you very much. Anyway, you also have PGD and that stands for preimplantation genetic diagnostics. So there's a national guidance committee for that. The whole process is very careful. Of course, my group believes that this is very important. I do have a few more questions for the Minister. When does a hereditary disease in which there is a difference between boys and girls in the probability of transfer qualify for embryo selection? Many questions have been asked and answers have been given, but could the Minister explain this clearly once again? When do you qualify for this? What diseases are eligible for this? The Council of State has asked how big the difference must be between boys and girls. That question has not been sufficiently answered for me either. There are several weighting criteria, but I am not sure how big the difference should be. In reply to a number of questions, the Minister also states that parents are not eligible for embryo selection in all cases of Leber's disease and breast cancer. That can also cause a lot of unrest. That is not clear to me either. When are parents not eligible for embryo selection in these two diseases? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I shall now turn to my next point. This careful process has one purpose, namely to prevent these serious diseases from being passed on to future generations, if that desire of parents is there. When we say that we want to prevent it, it is very much in line to say that we also want to prevent the situation of carriers of such a hereditary disease. Otherwise, it may not be the next generation that we are burdened with, but a subsequent generation. If this is the goal and the principle, and we have created a very careful process, then it is only logical, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, that the carriers of these sex-related serious hereditary diseases should be included. It's based on exactly the same principle. We don't want to burden future generations with it. We've rigged a careful process and make a careful weighing. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this is just part of the plan. I understand that this cabinet says we have to do it carefully, but there is a difference between carefully weighing up what we have done on this issue and this principle............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... As far as I am concerned, the exclusion of the carrier belongs to the category unnecessarily slowing down. We've had the discussion, and we've examined it carefully. We stand for the principle of not handing over these serious sexual diseases. The cabinet stands for that, too. That would include carriers. That is why I will be tabling an amendment to make this possible. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to quality control. I just want to make sure I got it right. The Minister says that there is no need for explicit consent for the use of residual material. This could mean that in theory we will find ourselves in a situation where we cannot meet the European and national requirements regarding our research and quality control around, for example, equipment or training other people. My question to the Minister is whether I understood that so well, because then I support the choice that has been made. Mr. Chairman. I come to my final point. It's about breeding embryos for research. I shall come back to my visit to Mr Repping. I think we have fantastic researchers who work very carefully. They have due care in front of them. But they also say that they make it possible for Mr Repping to literally tell me to make parents fertile, to pass fertility on to ivf. Surely it cannot be that we cannot do part of the research we have to do to create the optimal quality for IVF treatment, because we do not have access to embryos in the first three days? 'Cause they're so crucial. We know that. Those are exactly the days when these embryos are in the hospital environment before they are placed back. I find it incomprehensible that we can make people fruitful, fortunately, but that we do not allow the research to do so in the best possible way. Mrs Ploumen is tabling an amendment to that effect, and I am very pleased that my name is also underneath it. Then I come to my conclusion, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Before that, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	I heard a lot of praise for science. I understand that, also in the light of how to combat disease. Who won't feel sorry for that? It was all the more striking that GroenLinks actually had a very different tone when dealing with the Embryowet at the time. GroenLinks said the following. Science is one thing, but do we really see what we're doing and do we not deal with human life too easily? That even led GroenLinks to say that the law needed to be put in place permanently: "the creation of embryos for any purpose is not a viable way for us." How am I supposed to describe this change of position from a little more conservative to much more liberal at GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	What I think I have tried to do in my speech is to say that care is extremely important. That was and is the case for my group. It must never be the case that we take great risks and break standards with giant steps and say: we are going to do something completely different, especially when it comes to something as precarious as dealing with and treating embryos properly. That does not change, of course, because I have just argued that research and good treatment for men and women go hand in hand. Research serves the practice and also serves the wishes of our citizens. And that's what I'm standing here for. There are a lot of couples who would love to have a child. That is something we can do in this country, but we must do it as carefully as possible. That's exactly what we need this investigation for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	Please continue. You were in the middle of a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yes, I had come to my conclusion. It says: good, small steps are being taken, but as far as I am concerned, the motto of this cabinet here is too much 'delay, delay, delay'. Carefulness is very important, but let us take the steps that go with it where we have spoken out for certain principles. These are part of the principles of this cabinet. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Today we're discussing the Embryo Act. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, we have an important and urgent debate on this today. It is important and urgent for those who would like to have children; important and urgent also for the science that sees opportunities to help people when needed. The scientific search for better and safer techniques is therefore very relevant in this light for people who want to have children and for science. Infertility is a burdened and difficult subject for people with a child's desire, which involves a great deal of grief. It requires people to go through long-term medical pathways. Improving the treatment of infertility and the use of science should be supported by all of us. That's what I keep tasting in this room. It is important that science takes steps forward, but it is also important that we sympathise with the people involved. That's one side of the story. At the same time, the debate also calls for care and perhaps some restraint, because not everything that can be done must also be done. This is a careful balance, in which human dignity, the right to self-determination and the protection of life are paramount. These things have to relate to each other. I told you, there's a scientific perspective. We all feel the desire to help people who are unwantedly childless, or who suffer from hereditary diseases in the family. Both perspectives must be balanced. That is why I am looking forward to a debate in which we address these various aspects, and I would also like to stress that I would like to draw attention to the importance of the doctor-patient dialogue and to the importance of discussing this, not only the indiscretions but also the opportunities and wishes and the great importance that it is for the people themselves to be able to take a decision on this. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the adjustment proposed by the cabinet is a desirable adjustment. We know by now that some diseases do not only occur in one sex or another, but we also know that there may be a difference between each sex in the extent to which a genetic condition more often leads to an actual disease. Mrs Ellemeet asked for a clarification of this and I agree with her. With the adjustment proposed by the Cabinet, a careful balance is made between human dignity, the well-being of the future child and the desire of people to have a healthy child. That's what we all want. I understand that as a future parent you want to be able to make up for that choice, because the health of a future child is of course the most important thing for you. At the same time, with this amendment in this law, there remains the possibility, the option, not to make that choice. I would like to stress once again that it is up to the parents themselves to follow the path that best suits themselves, their beliefs. In this way, we strengthen people's right to self-determination. Mr. Chairman. It's not easy choices to make. I can't actually imagine that myself, but of course I'll try. Think of the dilemmas that people face when they hear that there is a chance of Leber's disease, as Mrs Ellemeet pointed out. This rare disease leads, among other things, to blindness, but also to other conditions. Think of hereditary breast cancer, too. The dilemmas in this respect should not be underestimated. It is very important that sufficient information is available and that people can contact their doctor for information, but also for guidance throughout the course. Mr. Chairman. We support the bill, but as far as the Labour Party is concerned, the step taken is too small in relation to what is possible, weighted against people's desire to do good and put health first. I shall go back briefly in time, because we have been discussing this subject for a long time. The fact that research can now only be done with so-called residual embryos means that science remains deprived of insights and knowledge that could be available if the legal possibilities were to be extended a little bit. Evaluations of the Embryo Act of 2006 and 2012 already indicate that the ban on breeding embryos is an obstacle in that respect. Of course, that has not changed now, in 2020. In the previous cabinet, then Minister Schippers put forward the proposal to allow the cultivation of embryos under very strict conditions in people with congenital infertility, people who are infertile due to cancer treatment and serious hereditary diseases, in order to prevent children from being born with this inherited disease. Mr. Chairman. The so-called residual embryos that are now being investigated, which may be used for scientific research, are a number of days old, which in fact lacks knowledge of what is happening in those first days. It is precisely this lack of knowledge that could be used for the better. We also see this in the countries around us, for example in Belgium. Of course, the idea of growing embryos can evoke very nasty associations, nightmare-like images. I read in an earlier interview that Mrs Tellegen gave me about this. I hope I reject her words well: 'no one wants designer babies'. But that's not the point at all. It is a matter of making progress for a limited group of people, under very strict conditions, under very clearly defined control. The Labour Party Group would like to offer this opportunity to people. Being able to help people with innate infertility or those who have become infertile after a severe fight against cancer, people with severe hereditary illness in the family, is a decisive reason for us, weighing everything, to make a plea for enabling embryos to grow, so that they too can fulfill their wish for children and avoid grief. We are therefore tabling an amendment, also signed by Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks, in which we are actually proposing what Mrs Schippers, then Minister in the previous cabinet, proposed. I know that D66 and the VVD also have this in their election programme, and I would like to hear from them whether they see opportunities to support that amendment. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet introduces a new review framework into the government agreement. That review framework states that there must be discussion and reflection before a decision can be taken in the field of medical ethics. I think we can all agree with that. But in this case it looks like a delay technique. I already cited evaluation studies from 2006 and 2012. There's been a lot of talk about this. Each official evaluation concluded that the ban on the cultivation of embryos is an obstacle to the development of important scientific insights. That is why there are a number of questions to the Minister. What exactly does he think is the added value of this DNA dialogue over and above the discussion and reflection that has already taken place? How does he weigh the thorough investigation and advice of the Health Council? How broad is this social debate going? Who can take part in it? What does the Minister expect to change in the decision-making of the cabinet by organising a number of meetings? And why do we hear the Minister when it comes to his policy area on all issues, as it should be, but never about this? Does he not think it is a responsibility of a minister to speak on this subject, to give background, to indicate what it is and what it is not about? For the sake of clarity, the question is: why is the Minister himself so silent about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	I hear Mrs Ploumen now talking about a social debate, but the dialogues are still ongoing. Of course there are a lot of people who can be helped with this, but we do not know at all how the vast majority of Dutch people feel about this. So do you not anticipate your amendment and your appeal to the Minister for the results of these dialogues? For without that outcome, it is only the information we have at the moment, the information of the people we have spoken to at the moment, but you do not know how broad the idea is in society at all. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yeah, I'd love to. I give three brief answers to that. One. Apart from what we believe is being conducted, the Rathenau Institute has serious objections to the way in which this dialogue is conducted, with objections which are actually Mr Jansen's objections. I read his objections as: there is a small group there, these people do not know about it and, moreover, they are not clearly told what this is about. The cultivation of embryos in itself, of course, has a function, for example, to help people with infertility. And we also need to talk about the opportunities that science sees to help people and whether there are alternatives. So the dialogues are flawed. That's one. Two. I have already indicated that there has been a temporary ban on the cultivation of embryos since 2002. Law reviews have been carried out. That has been widely discussed. It came out that it would be good to allow it. As far as I'm concerned, that's a way to have the conversation. Thirdly, I have called on the Minister to express his own opinion on this, as he does in other policy areas. In addition, very briefly, I think Mr Jansen is right in saying that we should all deal with these issues. At the same time, I think it is very important that we listen very carefully to the people involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	Careful listening is of course always the most important thing, because you have to be able to make a well weighted decision with each other. There is still a point that remains, the point you were the first to address: we do not know at all what a large majority of the population thinks about this. It's guessing. We assume the information of the people we have spoken to, without knowing how the Dutch feel about this in a majority. For example, this would have been an ideal subject for a referendum, provided you can explain it to the people. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Well, I agree with Mr Jansen that the dialogues such as the Minister who has now designed are not going to answer that question. Is it a subject for a referendum? If a referendum is about a simple yes-no question, then I think that we would really wrong the people who are involved in this and who are barren. Would it be a broader question... Well, anything's possible, of course. At the same time, I believe that we also have a responsibility to take a position here, heard the people involved and science. What people think of that, they can show if they go to the ballot box later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I agree with you on that last point. I assume that a lot of people will then use their senses, even when it comes to very different areas from this subject. Only then will you say: we must take responsibility. I agree with you, but you do rely on flawed information. That's a bridge too far for us. Our call would therefore be to wait with this amendment. Two steps are being taken, in the right direction. Why not wait for the outcome of the dialogues and perhaps more information on how part of the population thinks about it before you come forward with an amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	I have heard Mr Jansen say that he, like us, supports the legislative amendment proposed. I did not hear him explicitly say that he did extensive research into it either. I just want to say that we have a responsibility to weigh up the interests and listen carefully. My group believes that over the past ten or fifteen years she has done so in a variety of different ways, with experts, scientists, the people involved and people who may be looking at it a little more from the outside. That is why we believe that we can come to this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	Please continue, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	Mr. Chairman. In addition to Mrs Ellemeet, I also have the question of how many people are going to make up for this change in the law. Is it also the Minister's observation that this would be a very limited number of people per year? That does not mean that it would not be necessary; I think we can find each other in that. It would be good if the Minister reflected on this and also indicated how many people would have been helped if the proposal as set out in the amendment we are tabling were adopted. Mr. Chairman. What responsibility does the Minister feel towards the people who need this kind of investigation? It's a well-considered proposal. It was ready. We've been two years and not enough has actually happened. As far as we are concerned, the change is too limited. Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are having this debate. From everything I hear from everyone, it turns out that we do it nuanced and with empathy and knowledge. We want to strike a good balance between human dignity, the right of people to self-determination and the protection of life. I very much hope that the cabinet will take this as a starting point and agree with me that if you do that, a step more is needed than is currently proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Tellegen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Embryo Act, the law that determines what acts involving sex cells and embryos are prohibited and under what conditions those acts are allowed. It's an important law for all parents with a child's wish. After all, every parent wants to give birth to a healthy child, but, as we all know, that is far from self-evident for all future parents. Some parents have a hereditaryly transmitted and/or sex-related disease in their gene pack that they can pass on to their child. These parents would very much like to be able to determine the sex of their child, in order to increase the chance of having a healthy child. The law is also important for parents with fertility problems. These parents depend on fertility care in our country. Now fertility treatments in the Netherlands are of very high quality, but if we want to keep them that way, we must continue to stimulate innovation and maintain quality guarantees. In the creation of the Embryo Act in 2002, a balance was struck between human dignity, respect for human life, and, on the other hand, important values such as the well-being of the future child, the healing of diseases and the promotion of health and well-being of barren couples. That balance is also on the agenda today. It is no secret that some parties stress the need to exercise restraint in the use of embryos for research purposes out of respect for human life. Other parties attach added value to stimulating innovation and further helping medical science to increase people's well-being and health. Let this balance be reflected in the current coalition, and thus in the two amendments to the Embryo Act that we are discussing today. For some parties, it is a major step forward. For other parties, to which my party belongs the VVD, they do not go far enough. But, as I say in the direction of the cabinet, they are steps, albeit small ones, but they are steps forward, and that is particularly important for a coalition of this signature. What are the two changes proposed by the cabinet today? First of all, it will be possible for parents who have one of the two hereditaryly transmitted sex-related diseases in the gene pack to determine the sex of their child. This sex choice is therefore expressly motivated by a medical necessity and not motivated by personal preferences and/or desires. It is purely and simply intended to spare the child serious suffering and to give birth to a healthy child. You will not be surprised, Mr President, that the VVD wholeheartedly supports this extension of the law. My party strongly supports the fact that sex choice will soon be allowed if scientifically sound medical research has shown that there is a high risk that the child would have a serious hereditary condition, such as hereditary breast cancer or forms of vision impairment, it has all been mentioned already, and it is very likely that the disease will manifest itself in either sex. As far as the scope is concerned, I agree with the questions raised by colleagues Ellemeet and Ploumen. Who are we going to achieve with this, and who are we going to be and who are not going to be eligible for this? That is not entirely clear to me either. But the VVD would have liked to go one step further; that is no secret either. We would have liked to have seen that it had also become possible to include carriership of serious sex-related hereditary diseases in the extension of the law. The last debate on this was also about the carriership. In that debate, too, I have been evaluating this. Carriership means that someone has a disease in his gene pack that is not necessarily first-lined in the offspring but may manifest itself in later generations. It is a fervent wish of my party to realize that, but that is a bridge too far at the moment. The cabinet has announced its intention to carry out a further ethical analysis of this carriership. My question is, how's that analysis coming? Is the Minister also aware that this also plays a role in the NIP test, and is it also involved in that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	I know that Mrs Tellegen and the VVD are in favour of this. The previous cabinet has already prepared this proposal. What I have argued is that this is very close to the principle of the change we are talking about. What this cabinet wants is very clear, and I am pleased to see that we are preventing undesirable, very serious sex-related hereditary diseases. So it's the same principle. Does Mrs Tellegen think it is logical that there should be a separate ethical social debate about this carriership, or does she agree with GroenLinks that it is so in line with the proposal that I might be able to move her in my direction with the necessary arguments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	My answer is brief: I agree with Mrs Ellemeet 100%. That's no secret either. I do not need any additional arguments to convince myself of the fact that I would have liked to add the carriership to this law here today, because that indeed completes the entire palette. It is almost a form of illogical not to include that in it. But as I have said, we have made agreements in the coalition agreement. I have the feeling that I will be able to repeat them a few times in the event of interruptions, and I will stick to that, however frustrating. But we are taking steps in the right direction, and I sincerely hope that in the near future we will be able to achieve that carriership.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Those agreements in the coalition agreement are about really new developments, other developments, which come on top of the existing ones, and therefore require a separate study of the medical-ethical need and on which a separate social debate is to be held; you know the sadder better than I do. But my point is that this is not the case. I believe that Mrs Tellegen should not underestimate that argument, even towards the coalition parties. It's not going to happen here. This carriership is so close to the proposal that we are now discussing that all those arguments, which are all the sadder in the coalition agreement, are not on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mrs Ellemeet is right. I simply agree with you; I cannot say otherwise. Those arguments have indeed played a role in achieving the coalition agreement. Every word has been carefully weighed, and this was its outcome. I am also curious to see what the Minister will say in response to that later. But this is the line we keep it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	Please continue, Mrs. Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	The second amendment proposed by the Cabinet concerns the rules on embryos remaining after medical or fertility treatment, the so-called residual embryos. There are both European directives and national legislation to ensure the quality of medical treatment with body material. Fertility clinics also have a legal obligation to comply with these standards. But in order to guarantee these standards, research with embryonal residual material is necessary. However, according to the current law, this is not possible and therefore the quality requirements cannot be sufficiently maintained. It is therefore a good thing that research with residual embryos is now finally given a legal basis, which formalises the already existing practice in the law. On this point, too, the cabinet does not go far enough if it is up to the VVD. The VVD would have liked to see the ban on the cultivation of embryos, especially for scientific research under strict conditions and guarantees, lifted. Why? Because the VVD believes that there are very valuable interests of health gain and well-being to be achieved, if embryo cultivation is allowed. Those interests are so great that, in my party's opinion, they justify the release of the ban. I am pleased to be able to quote my former colleague, Minister Edith Schippers, again here today. She said it strikingly, like so many things at the time: "A general ban does not take into account real opportunities to achieve health benefits for patients or to offer people a perspective on getting healthy children. I attach great importance to the promised developments that offer prospects for infertile couples and for couples who are at risk of passing on a serious disease to their offspring. My wish is therefore to offer perspective on having healthy children to people who have often had a lot of suffering due to their own disease history or unwanted childlessness. They want to spare their children this suffering. The current law does not allow that, while I think there should be more room for that." Mr. Chairman. I couldn't have said it better. The quotation is from 2016 and today we are at the beginning of the year 2020. The VVD found this at the time and still is. But, as I have said, the two legislative changes we are discussing here today are the result of a compromise between respect for human life and the value I mentioned earlier. Mr. Chairman. Deal's a deal. For this reason, the VVD can now support the two amendments, which are no longer two but three, and the third does not support the same amendment that has been tabled to the law today. I'm not kidding. The VVD would have liked to support those amendments, but we are also in favour of the agreements made within the current coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	I can understand "a deal is a deal." Only, as a SP, we have been looking for the right thing: how can we make such a proposal that we can vote both parts of the coalition happy, namely that we keep an eye on the story that is told from the Christian Union, the protection of life on the one hand and on the other hand improving the IVF treatments? As in the round table, a lot of embryos are lost in the process, because, for example, the culture media, the fluid in which the embryos are grown can be improved. In the long run, we can have a lot less leftover embryos, we need to throw away much less of them, and that sounds a little flat when we talk about this kind of thing, but that's what it comes down to if we could do careful research, limited research, by growing embryos. I would still like to hear Mrs Tellegen's response to that proposal. In my view, this proposal serves both sides very well, namely Mrs Dik, who wants there to be fewer residual embryos. I understand that, but also the VVD, which says: let's do more and better research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	I must congratulate Mr Hijink, because it is indeed a very nuanced, very sharp and totally correct amendment. Here's my compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	The nuance man. They call me the nuance man. Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	The S.P.'s nuance man. Well, that is reflected in your amendment. As I have read and assessed it now, I have at this moment considered that we cannot support the amendment simply because we embrace the reason 100%, but it is still the cultivation of embryos, which we agreed we will not agree to. Your argument for doing so is moving in the direction of those parties who say: we also want less work to be done with residual embryos and not to be thrown away. Much more is being made of this at the moment, so I fully understand your argument. So if the Minister says he understands the argument and thinks it is a sympathetic amendment, then I will raise my finger straight away. But right now, I've made the point that this isn't the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	Scientists say that 95% of the embryos used for IVF are eventually lost. Of course, that's awfully much. This is bad for the parents, who therefore need to do more treatment than might be strictly necessary. Then you also have the question of when the beginning of life is worthy of protection. One person attaches more to that than the other. That is growing in our eyes, but the Christian Union says this is from the very beginning. Then you have to find out how to prevent massive embryo loss in the long term by allowing limited breeding? I do not see why that would be contrary to the philosophy or ideology of either party within the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	For the reason I mentioned. You're de facto gonna grow embryos anyway. The cultivation of embryos is what my party is very much in favour of, but what other parties in the coalition think differently. We made a deal about that. I would simply ask you to stop arguing why you have written such a good amendment, because you have. I also fully agree with it. I just can't support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	That brings me to the final issue. That's been on the table for a while. That is the social dialogue that the cabinet has started on all kinds of issues related to scientific research with embryos. Now the cabinet has moved into the country on numerous medical-ethical topics. So soon a series of living room meetings about completed life will begin. The VVD welcomes the initiation of social dialogues. For many medical-ethical subjects, it is wise to take the time and check whether there is sufficient support in society to take a certain path. Mr Jansen has just referred to it. But completed life is just another subject than scientific research with embryos. In completed life, many more people have a concrete and clear picture of what that is all about and what the underlying dilemmas are. It is now easier and faster to have a wide-ranging social debate on this issue. Hopefully that will come as a result of the report that we are about to receive, and it is also appropriate to do so. But in the case of germ-track modification or the cultivation of human organs in animals, more factual information and more context is needed in order to have a social discussion at all. For these complex subjects, facts and fiction often get mixed up and people have all kinds of fears and delusions because of the lack of the right information. That's a shame and a shame. Many people think, when they hear a debate on the cultivation of embryos, that we are going to allow ourselves to create our own babies here in this house from one day to the next. That was just what my colleague Ploumen referred to and I also meant it in the interview at the time. There are all kinds of delusions in society because the facts are not clear at all. There's just a complete lack of information. I agree with Mr Ploumen's appeal to the cabinet. Because such a small article in Trouw today already leads to more discussion, I dare say, and especially if this minister in a thorough interview in a newspaper, on television or anywhere else says how he looks at it. I am right to say that, because I have taken the trouble to look at one of those dialogue evenings on the cultivation of embryos in Utrecht. That was an incredibly good and high-quality dialogue, but only with people who know a lot about it and not with someone who had just bought candles from the Blokker in Hoog Catharijne or with the market merchant. I am not saying that we have to wait one thing for another, but that we should always try, in particular, on this type of subject, which is so much non-information, to conduct this social dialogue as well as possible. I think we can do better on this point. I would therefore ask the Minister whether it is possible for the initiatives relating to the cultivation of embryos to be taken in a different way at the present time, so that a broader, clearer debate can be launched than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	Does Mrs Tellegen agree with me that it is important that the Minister should also speak out, with all the dilemmas he undoubtedly experiences in his role as a ruler? As she herself pointed out, one of the problems is that the cabinet does not itself move into the country. It doesn't. It's completely aloof. Could we perhaps make that appeal to the Minister together? You just said words of this kind, I thought I heard them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	Sure. I totally agree. And if I were on this minister's campaign team, which I'm not, this could be a suggestion. He looks a little frowny, but I'm serious. These are subjects that the whole society feels about, but then the facts must be clear. Then we must also be clear about what we are talking about, where the boundaries lie, where the dilemmas lie. Having a social dialogue at the moment is a dialogue but not a social dialogue. I'd like to know how we can do that better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	Thank you, Mrs Tellegen. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is clear that today we are discussing the amendment of the Embryo Act. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Jansen on behalf of D66 on his maiden speech and then continue. We're discussing the amendment of the Embryo Act today. It entered into force in 2002. The name Embryowet may not immediately evoke the association: that has something to do with me. But it has already been mentioned by others: the Embryowet is very important. It makes a big contribution to many things that are important for everyone. I am thinking of the cure of diseases, the promotion of the health of people who cannot have children and, of course, the well-being of future children. The change we are discussing deals with two important issues. D66 is very happy about that. We shall therefore vote in favour of this amendment. But I'm going to throw it right into the group. We would have liked to move on as D66. I have mentioned this many times in previous debates, but on medical-ethical matters and specifically the Embryo Act, agreements have been made in the coalition agreement. These are agreements on not lifting the ban on the cultivation of embryos for scientific research. That is what Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Ellemeet want to do. I understand that, but unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of it at the moment, as much as we would like to do and as important as we think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	Thank you, Mrs Dijkstra. She would like to see it differently, so would I, but I appreciate that Mrs Tellegen and they are clear about the reasons why they cannot support the amendment. Could Mrs Dijkstra agree with Mrs Tellegen and I that we should call on the Minister to involve herself much more actively in this debate and to better explain to people what this is about, where the boundaries lie and what the dilemmas are, because he has so far been so silent about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	I very much welcome that, so I am happy to join in that appeal to the Minister. And why do I warmly welcome it? I have already indicated in previous debates that I believe that these social dialogues should be conducted much more intensively. I've also made suggestions for how you could shape that. And I've always said, "You can have a tooth." I would also find it extremely helpful if the Minister himself played a role in this, regardless of whether he expressed his own opinion or expressed the opinion of the cabinet. For the Minister, too, of course, has to do with a coalition agreement, but I do think he is quite capable of doing so, and I shall immediately look at the Minister to explain this in a very understandable way and to tell him what the importance is and what it is really about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	I now hear Mrs Dijkstra expressing allegiance to the coalition agreement. The VVD just did. But don't you have any loyalty to your constituents? Because you have a very different view, and people may have voted for your party for that reason. But you are taking a completely different view now. So don't you feel like you're actually slandering your constituents with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	Well, I guess it's something else. In this area, in particular, the differences are very wide. If there is one subject on which we differ very much, then it is on medical-ethical ground. In which self-determination and freedom of choice are very important for D66. Of course, we did not put that aside. It's not going as fast as we'd like. However, the dialogue on this subject is under way. And yes, I'm sorry we can't settle it now. But it is important to point out that we did not surrender our principles, but that in a coalition, you have to make some things worth the effort. There are other things on the other side that we can go through and which are very special for a coalition that is half Christian parties and half liberal parties. I can submit my completed life-law proposal. That is not small in this constellation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	I understand Mrs Dijkstra's dilemma. But there are other examples where at some point D66 did indeed sail her own course. Wherever a minister or secretary of state occasionally gets into trouble. Then why not in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	D66 has in no way broken the coalition agreement. No agreements have been made that we have not complied with. Sometimes there have been developments that have led the coalition to discuss this with each other. I would appreciate it if we could do something in this area, as I see Mrs Ellemeet coming in. But I know that this is about one of the most difficult issues to change, because, of course, we have talked about this paragraph in the coalition agreement for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	I can reassure Mrs Dijkstra: I first came forward to sincerely compliment her. Because I know few colleagues who fight for their own progressive ideals with such integrity and passion, even in a complicated coalition. So I understand the complexity, and I think it is very nice that Mrs Dijkstra is looking for these limits and putting forward substantive arguments. Well, I would of course...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	Of course there's something coming, you're not just saying that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	It's serious, but I want to see if there's any room at the point of carriership. I have tried to argue that this coalition identifies a number of principles as the starting points for consideration that it makes. When it comes to gender-related serious diseases, this cabinet says, this coalition says: we want to avoid this in extreme cases. I think that's a very important statement. I think D66 helped make that statement. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the carriership of these sex associations is very serious. This can therefore be taken into account with the same arguments. Would Mrs Dijkstra make an attempt to see, on behalf of my party, whether there is room within the coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	Mrs Ellemeet, of course this has been discussed at length. This was a bridge too far for "Let's just name it "Christ Union" and "CDA." At some point, you'll have to count your blessings. The fact that we are able to take steps with this coalition, even though we do not think it is big enough, is worth a lot to me. Because there have also been coalitions in which these parties sat with other parties where there really was only a standstill. I also said it in the very first debate on medical ethics: we have been able to make progress, even if it is not enough in our opinion, I think it is a merit. Sometimes I think: don't push your luck. To put it in good Dutch, don't defy your happiness. How do we say that? Count your blessings; I just said that. Of course it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	That also sounds very nice in Dutch: count your blessings. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u53	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u54	Do not tarry your happiness, but do use all possible arguments to see how we can make that happiness as great as possible. I would like to ask Mrs Dijkstra if she can see if there are any possibilities, because I think the arguments are extremely strong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u55	Thank you. I'll get to work on that. That's an encouraging interruption. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we'll take care of two things today. We were just talking about what's not being arranged. First of all, the so-called sex choice. This law allows sex choice to be applied if there is a risk of non-Mendelian inherited diseases with an uneven gender incidence. Let me say what that means in normal Dutch: if the risk of a particular disease is different for men or women, it becomes possible to apply sex choice. We have all used that word, but frankly, I do not think the word "sex choice" is very appropriate. Because it's not about choosing a gender at all, as Professor Inez de Beaufort said in her essay. It's called M/V PGD Yes/No. The wishing parents do not ask for a particular gender, but to reduce the risk of disease in the child. It is a pity that this is a bit of a misconception. Now that I've talked about that essay, I'd like to express my gratitude for that. I think it is very good that we are discussing this important legislative amendment today, partly because of this essay. The explanatory memorandum gives two examples of diseases in which sex choice, also known as pgd, stands for pre-implantation genetic diagnostics; we cannot explain it often enough after adoption of this legislative amendment. Of course, the other speakers have already mentioned this. On the one hand, we have forms of hereditary breast cancer caused by a mutation of the BRCA1 gene and the BRCA2 gene. Research shows that more than one in every ten women in her life are affected by breast cancer. Of the women involved, one in ten again has to deal with an inherited form. If, through this amendment of the law, we can contribute to the prevention of this terrible disease, I actually see it as a moral duty. The second example given is Leber's disease. That is a rare and difficult to treat eye disease. Mrs Ellemeet has already given more background. To imagine what it means when you have it: it starts with a blurry stain in the middle of your eye, caused by damage to the optic nerve. It occurs quite suddenly and can grow very quickly. In one year, both eyes could have gotten very worse. So it is very good that pgd will soon become possible for these two diseases. But I do have a few questions for the Minister. Can he confirm that this is not an exhaustive list and that the law is formulated in such a way that if other diseases or diseases with such an uneven gender incidence are detected in the future, pgd could also be a possibility in those diseases? I ask the Minister to allow new scientific insights to guide this. I also ask whether the multidisciplinary team will look at the possibilities on a case-by-case basis in the future and whether it can be advised on request by the National Indicative Committee for Public Health. I'd like a response from the Minister. By the way, this also raises the question of what are the latest scientific insights. Can the Minister confirm that this is up to the professionals, of course with due regard to the PGD scheme? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the second point that this law regulates, namely quality assurance. On the basis of European legislation, institutions must do so. That may sound a bit technical, but it is very important for the quality of the care provided. Quality assurance should include institutions that use residual material that remains after embryo treatment, for example, to check their equipment or optimize genetic testing. This is not just about complying with an EU directive, but it is important for anyone who uses or wishes to do so. Of course, wishing parents should always be able to refuse the use for quality control of residual material that remains after their treatment. That is clear, but D66 does share the Minister's view on a legally explicit consent requirement. It is not appropriate and is not considered appropriate to make the extent to which institutions can comply with their legal obligation legally dependent on the consent of third parties. I do have a single question about quality assurance, because the EU directive, where it comes from, defines it as "the coordinated activities to guide and control an organisation in terms of quality." I'm quite technical now; I realize that. I think this is equally important, since the new Article 9a, second paragraph, of this amendment states: "Rest material may be used for the purposes of quality control which is directly related to the diagnostic processes or treatment processes in fertility care." In short, it now seems as if there is an additional requirement for quality assurance. The Minister writes in his written reply that precisely because of the new Article 9a, the existing bottleneck in the Embryote Act is resolved by establishing a basis, but my question is why this additional requirement was chosen. Can the Minister confirm that, for example, the training of new embryologists is also covered by that diagnostic process or treatment process? Mr. Chairman. Following the adoption of this amendment of the law, two things are changing about the Embryo Act and that of course has consequences for the practice in fertility care. For example, in view of the new article on quality assurance, how will embryologists deal with the obligation to provide information in the Embryo Act? I could therefore imagine that the Model Regulations Embryowet will be looked at. That is why I ask the Minister if he is prepared to ask the Dutch Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology, NROG, and the Association for Clinical Embryology, CLEM, if this model regulation is still sufficiently up-to-date after the adoption of this legislative amendment. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Legislation linked to medical-ethical themes is never easy, but I agree with Mrs De Beaufort that parents' motives regarding sex choice in the risk of serious hereditary illness with unequal gender incidence are morally sound. A choice that parents make is not made lightly. I have every confidence in the careful decision-making in the office, between doctors and patients. This law will make it possible to make that choice. That is certainly a step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u56	Thank you, Mrs Pia Dijkstra. Before I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, I would like to suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u57	We will proceed with the examination of the amendment of the Embryo Act. I give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill we're discussing today is about a sensitive subject. On the one hand, it is about parents' senseable desire for a healthy child. Then it's good to see that medical science has a lot to offer us. On the other hand, it is the beginning of human life. I believe God is the creator of all life. For the Christian Union, this means that life from the very beginning is worthy of protection. It is no secret that there is a field of tension here for the Christian Union. Therefore, I think it is very sensible that the cabinet should exercise caution in the question of whether research and application possibilities should be extended in the Embryowet. First, the question is asked of the medical and scientific necessity. Are there sufficient alternatives that do not require or do not require a less extensive extension of the policy area? Secondly, ethical reflection is taking place. Thirdly, there is also a social debate. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to ethical reflection among scientists, I often find it difficult for them to look beyond the technical possibilities offered by embryos. How is it ensured that sufficient ethical reflection takes place in scientific circles of researchers themselves? This issue is too important to leave it to the Health Council or the Rathenau Institute, however valuable it may be. For example, there is a lot of pressure from science on creating embryos for scientific research. However good the objective may be, embryos are created specifically for research, i.e. human life, to destroy it afterwards. For the Christian Union, this instrumental use of an embryo runs counter to human dignity. Today, that's not the bill before us. Mr President, I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u59	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u60	I very much agree with Mrs Dik-Faber that scientific opportunities in this area must always be accompanied by ethical considerations. In fact, she says that the scientists involved in this issue in the Netherlands are failing to take account of these ethical considerations. What's she basing that on? That's what I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u61	We held a round table in the Lower House, in which many scientists were present. Ethicians were also present. I noticed that in that conversation, which was conducted with the utmost care, the ethical reflection was still difficult. I think we've both tasted that, I think, from different perspectives. A number of ethical questions could not be answered adequately. I'm worried about that. I think it is important that this ethical reflection should take place in a wide range of areas and also in science. That is why I put my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u62	I think it's important that we're right about this. I do remember that, as Mrs Dik-Faber says, we agreed on this, but my point was that the ethicists who joined that round table did not really go much further than the morality that you and I have, perhaps in a different way. They always referred to scientific research. My point is actually very simple. Mrs Dik-Faber, like all of us, has every right to share her own perception with us, but that is different from finding that scientists would find it difficult to make ethical assessments. That was what she said in her first contribution. So I would like to put a nuance to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u63	My group considers it very important that ethical reflection also takes place within science. What I see is that science from a very justified question from wishing parents is looking for opportunities to be of service to wish parents. I understand that very well. At the same time, technical progress cannot take place without ethical reflection. I think it's important that it takes place in that place, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u64	The position of the Christian Union, for example on the use of breeding embryos, depends entirely on that one point of the protection of life, and then from the very beginning. Mrs Dik has also opposed the instrumental use of embryos, which is why she does not want to breed embryos. I have a question about that. This minister has only recently made it possible to put the spiral into abortion clinics. That will also be reimbursed. This is a method that ensures that a possible embryo is destroyed by placing it in the womb. This is in fact contrary to the Christian Union's premise that, in relation to the protection of life, any embryo that develops is of protection? Why did it not oppose such proposals? If she is so committed to this, she must be consistent. If it is not, it can also take the other step, namely to prevent as many remaining embryos as possible by enabling research under embryos on a limited scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u65	I can keep a very technical story about preventing an unintentional pregnancy, but as far as my knowledge is concerned, it is currently possible to implement or offer a form of contraception to women who are unintentionally pregnant, in order to prevent them from getting pregnant again. Hormones also play a role in this process, which prevents an egg from being fertilized. Forgive me for not being able to name the exact names, because I was not fully prepared for this question. But this is what's going on. So, here too, science is progressing. Not only the implantation is thus prevented; even the fertilization of an egg is prevented. That is what has become possible with the latest forms of contraception.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u66	Then we should hear from the Minister whether what he has proposed is also limited to this category of spirals, because there are, of course, simply spirals that make sure that the egg is removed, even if it is already fertilized. So you are talking about destroying an embryo, which was not created for the purpose of achieving pregnancy. That is another argument that Mrs Dik made at the round table: you should only develop embryos if it is intended to bring about a pregnancy, to create a child. That is, of course, absolutely not the case in the case of contraception. So there's just a very big inconsistency in the story of the Christian Union. I would like to repeat once again the question that I have also asked Mrs Tellegen. If, in the long term, we are able to avoid having leftover embryos, so with limited research on breeding embryos, we can prevent thousands of embryos that are now unusable from being needed, then surely there must be an ethical consideration for the Christian Union as to how to prevent the unnecessary disposal of such embryos? I don't really understand why she's holding on to that prowess at the very beginning, when, in the long term, you can avoid a lot more waste. That's the wrong term. I would like to say that we have leftover embryos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u67	I understand the dilemma put forward by the SP very well. I also like to see that it is both our commitment to reducing the number of remaining embryos. I support that commitment. Only the SP's proposal is to reduce the number of remaining embryos by first creating embryos to see if we can improve them in quality assurance and so on. That just means a whole new step. It would then be the first time that we are going to create embryos with the aim of using them for scientific research and then destroying them. If we take that step, it will not end there. I think Mr Hijink knows that too. Then other scientific research that needs embryos, for example, will require the CRISPR-Cas technique, for example, to create many, many embryos. Apart from the argument that it is contrary to the protection of the embryo and that we do not want an embryo to be created for instrumental use, I also foresee that it will not end here and that we will therefore also create embryos in other areas. My group is certainly not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u68	How far we go in the development of technology, of course, we still determine ourselves. It is not for nothing that I have made an amendment which goes much further than Mrs Ploumen's and Mrs Ellemeet's amendments. I will support that, by the way, but I have chosen to opt for that more limited variant as well. We're always on our own about how far we go. I would like to tell Mrs Dik what the consequence of her reasoning is. Now it is so that those researchers have also said in the round table discussion that you are allowed to experiment, for example with culture fluids, the liquids used to grow embryos. This allows you to do tests, but only on embryos that are actually meant to be placed back. So we are currently using women and children as guinea pigs to see what the effect of the culture fluid used was. Mrs Dik believes that this is ethically justified. But Mrs Dik doesn't think it's ethical to do research on a much smaller scale to make those growing fluids even more successful, so you don't need those guinea pigs anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u69	I believe that Mr Hijink is making a caricature of the Christian Union's position. If people want to become pregnant and if they are then helped by the IVF technique, then there is always residual embryos because more embryos are created than will eventually be placed back. We are talking about many more embryos: 95%, as we have just heard. Those embryos are created as part of a pregnancy wish. If embryos are left, then they will be used even now for quality control purposes. This bill provides a legal basis for this. That is not what the Christian Union is making a point of. The Christian Union makes it a point that we are going to create special embryos for scientific research and then destroy them again. That is a bridge too far for my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u70	I would like to come back to the previous point on science. Perhaps Mrs Dik didn't mean it that way, but the way she spoke it, science has too little regard for the ethical dimension of everything that has to do with fertility, so she put it, I really find it a disgrace of science. I do not think that does justice to the way in which our scientists deal with this precarious subject, in practice and in theory. So did Mrs. Fat mean something else, or did she really mean this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u71	I mean to say that I think it is important that this ethical reflection also takes place within science, that it is organized not only outside science but also within science. On the basis of the round table we have had here in the Chamber, I do not have sufficient confidence in that at the moment. That is why I ask the Minister how he sees it, whether he wants to reflect on it or whether the ethical balance is sufficient within science. Again, based on the round table, I don't have that certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u72	Firstly, a round table is short, so there is not a lot of time for ethical considerations. I would remind Mrs Dik of the contribution made by Mrs Van Beers, Professor of Medical Ethics at Vrije Universiteit, someone who clearly shows a different sound than some other ethicists. I think it goes a long way to throw them all off the table on the basis of one round table as insufficient in terms of this dimension in science. And of course we have all read pieces by these ethicists, who play a role in science and are also close to medical-ethical practice. I really think that's going too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u73	I note in science a huge drive, in good Dutch, to do further research, because it is seen that there are techniques to help people who, for example, cannot get pregnant or have a healthy baby. And I appreciate that. I appreciate that those researchers who have curiosity and say: we want to look beyond what we can now; we want to take further steps to help these wishing parents too. At the same time, this curiosity must always be accompanied by ethical reflection. Are the proper considerations made at every step we make? This step benefits these parents, but what does it mean for humanity, for our society? If we take this step, how do we look at illness and suffering? These are all issues that need to be addressed about the scientific progress that is taking place. Again, the round table was a moment for me, and there have been more moments. Mrs Ellemeet now mentions a person I have very high regard for. So I do not want to detract from the individual commitment of people, but in general I wonder whether this ethical reflection, with all the issues surrounding progress in science, is sufficient, precisely within that scientific circuit. I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u74	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u75	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I come to the bill that is before us today, to amend Embryowet on two parts. The first change is to allow sex choice in severe hereditary diseases with unequal gender incidence. The second amendment is to allow the use of embryo sex cells for the purposes of quality control in fertility care. My group has a number of questions about this. It is forbidden to select by sex in our country, and that is right, given the equal value of people. Article 26 of the Embryowet makes an exception for serious sex-related hereditary diseases. The present legislative proposal adds that gender may be a selection criterion in cases of unequal gender incidence in serious hereditary diseases. The eye disease LHON and hereditary breast cancer are currently eligible for this. This does not mean, however, that a right to pgd is automatically created for carriers of the relevant conditions, because in the end each individual case is examined separately. That is the kind of care that appeals to my group. For LHON, boys have a 50% chance of this condition and girls have a 10% chance. In the case of hereditary breast cancer, women have a 60% to 80% chance of getting breast cancer, with a maximum of 7% in men. The inequality of gender incidence in these two hereditary diseases is obvious, but what will it be like in other conditions, which may be discovered in the near future? To what extent should the gender incidence be uneven in order to justify gender selection? The Council of State also has these questions and points out them. I would also like a response from the Minister on this point. In the coalition agreement and in the explanatory memorandum, the two diseases are mentioned by name. However, the law does not mention the two diseases. According to the government, this is to prevent the emergence of a rigid framework that is unable to respond to new scientific insights. Can the Minister, step by step, outline the process followed when new serious hereditary diseases with an uneven gender incidence are detected and pre-implantar genetic diagnostics can be applied? In what way will the Chamber be kept informed? Frankly, my group is concerned about possible diseases based on gender selection. My group also has questions about this. For example, we know that a disorder in the autistic spectrum is more common in boys than in girls. I also know that there are very serious autisms, and we certainly should not talk about them lightly, but in some autism it seems more appropriate to speak of a personality characteristic than of a disease. That is why my question is: when is there actually a serious condition? Can the Minister reflect on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u76	I always find it so difficult when we are going to talk about subjects that are really not at all covered by this legislative amendment. We are talking about diseases, and two are mentioned in this amendment, which clearly shows where that problem is, where you can find it. But a disorder in the autism spectrum is not at all the issue here. I do not understand why we are talking about issues that are very far removed from what we are dealing with in this law. My question is, why are you bringing this up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u77	I bring this up because there were questions about it within my group. If I remember correctly, it has been explicitly stated that autism is more common in boys than in girls. I do not think it is considered a genetic condition at the moment, so it is indeed not covered by this law. However, I believe that the note on the report also points out by other groups that, although it is not at the moment, further research is being carried out and that we cannot exclude it for the future. My group is putting forward this case to ask the Minister what exactly is going to happen if we discover new diseases in the future. How does this process end when a decision is made to preimplant genetic diagnostics? How is the Chamber kept informed of this? I believe that these are almost the same questions as Mrs Dijkstra herself asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u78	In any case, I have said that I welcome the fact that it is not a exhaustive list limited to the two diseases that are now mentioned. I ask Mrs Dik because we have also talked about the social dialogues and the information that people often do not have. People don't always know what we're talking about. What I find so regrettable is that you immediately cause a great deal of confusion when you involve these kinds of diseases in the Chamber in the debate when they are not at all on the agenda. I would very much like to limit it to the core of what we are talking about. Soon the discussion in the newspaper between the letter writers will be about whether you can do embryo selection if there is autism in your family. I am very sorry about that. That's actually the only reason I'm asking for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u79	You made that clear, Mrs Pia Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u80	Just to avoid misunderstandings, I try to choose my words as carefully as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u81	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u82	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the use of sex cells and embryos for quality control. My group understands the thinking behind the proposal to allow sex cells and embryos remaining after fertility treatment to be used for quality control. This will improve fertility treatment. In this sense, quality assurance is in the interests of the wishing parents. The way in which wishing parents are involved in decision-making on the use of sex cells or residual embryos raises many questions. Institutions must at least inform parents, but the documents accompanying the legislative proposal do not make it clear exactly when, how and how active that should be. According to the explanatory memorandum, this is prior to the actual use of residual material for quality assurance purposes. However, according to the report's note, it is better to inform parents prior to the entire treatment course. It's a step further if parents have to give permission. The Minister does not want to lay this down by law because quality assurance is a European obligation and institutions should not be dependent on the consent of third parties to carry out their legal tasks. Institutions may specify their consent or retention on a voluntary basis. My group finds this a little confusing. Frankly, it says in my text that we find this very confusing. There are three ways to inform or ask for permission. In addition, the Council of State points out that an agreement with parents is in principle subordinate to the law. Does it therefore not deserve a recommendation that the sector should come forward with a clear directive on this issue, so that it is clear that parents will be actively informed in the personal conversation that is already taking place at least prior to treatment? Why not ask for explicit permission? Can the Minister justify why he thinks that insufficient wish-parents will give permission? Mr. Chairman. In IVF treatment, more embryos are often produced than are necessary for treatment. Remaining embryos can then be used for quality control, as provided for in this legislative proposal. But should we not seek to limit the number of embryos that remain at all times? Can the Minister state what progress has been made on this issue with regard to scientific progress? Can the use of residual material for quality control also lead to a lower number of residual embryos? Finally, Mr President. In the coalition agreement, it was agreed that there should be more public debate on embryo research. Dialogues are currently taking place on the special cultivation of embryos for research and on embryo selection in the event of the risk of carrier of a hereditary disease. The Christian Union is a warm advocate of this social debate. Can the Minister tell us what insights have been gained from these dialogues so far? Have we managed to have a broad dialogue, not only with researchers and healthcare professionals, but also with a cross-section of Dutch society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u83	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u84	Madam President. The coalition agreement states that great care is needed in the event of changes in medical-ethical policy. Indeed, precisely the differences of insights have led to a very clear review framework, where caution is paramount. That caution appeals to us. At the same time, we saw in the coalition agreement that there will be an extension of the Embryo Act. That is the proposal we are discussing today. Because it is an amendment to an existing law that is not yet very old.... at least, which was discussed at the beginning of the 21st century................................................................................................................................................ I noticed how valuable the exchange of views was and how fundamental and sincere that debate was. There was curiosity about the different points of view. Moreover, the fundamental question was very clearly raised as to how to see the prowess of beginning human life. There were indeed different perspectives in the picture. On the one hand, there were parties who, in different words, stressed the prowess of human life from the beginning. These were not just Christian parties such as the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP. With the reference to Psalm 139 the SGP presented human life in poetic terms as a miracle. The SGP sees it as a task of the government, and I still fully support it in order to protect it. But it was also wider. You saw that coming back to GroenLinks. I have just mentioned this in the debate on the interruption. Also, in some of the notes of the Socialist Party, a more critical approach was chosen: are we not too much involved in dealing with human life from very sensitive purposes, such as the question of how to prevent suffering and illness? That actually came out more broadly then and led to a much more critical approach among parties who emphasize the intrinsic value from the beginning of human life. The differences that emerged then, of course, are still there. Against that background, the SGP Group was against the Embryo Act. We felt that the protection in that law did not come out sufficiently well. It is important that protection and equality of human life are enshrined in laws and regulations so that embryos are protected from fertilization. That's intrinsically valuable. It's about God-given human life in development, life that deserves protection. Like I said, we were against the Embryo Act from that perspective. That is why we, for ourselves, have the review framework for new proposals that are being submitted, or give more protection to embryos or less. Let me start with my conclusion: I actually see this law as a negative step. From the point of view of increased protection, but not absolute protection from the beginning, there are in fact a number of steps taken with understandable arguments. I understand that from that point of view, but from the point of view we are in favour of, I cannot be positive about the scope of this proposal. We see it as a deterioration. Firstly, the cabinet proposes that the use of embryos and sex cells for quality control should be legally anchored. I noticed that a new term, an understanding clause, was introduced for this purpose, namely'rest material'. I've been looking into it. That term doesn't come up in the Embryo Act. My question is therefore: why was this concept chosen? I can say that I think this fits in with a vision of human life in which you see it mostly as just biological material. "Rest material." Why was it not chosen for what it is, and where in fact there was agreement in the Embryo Act, namely: sex cells and embryos? Then you're not going to unintentionally set the tone that you can actually take further steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u85	Thank you to Mr Van der Staaij for the look-back. It is absolutely relevant in a debate like this. We undoubtedly have our differences, but each one makes an honest assessment. Mr Van der Staaij remarked, if I understand him correctly, that the outcome of the weighting you are making may be somewhat different now than in 2002. Everyone has reasons for that. How does Mr Van der Staaij view the position of the SGP? Does Mr Van der Staaij, along with his group, keep weighing up? Or is there an absolute framework that determines what that position is? I am very curious how he sees his own position and that of his group in 2002 and how he sees it today. Are there any things that Mr Van der Staaij and his group have been thinking differently about, and have they led to a different weighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u86	It's a fair question. I believe that there is no change in the ethical framework that we have, the vision of when human life is protective. That also makes sense to me, because this ethical assessment does not depend so much on actual developments. That is a rather timeless question, which was considered in ancient times and later. You can get all the philosophers and ethicists together. So that hasn't really changed that much. But we were more negative about test tube fertilization, for example, because it was inherent in the initial phase that this led to the destruction of residual embryos. That clashed with our ethical framework. It may be that this technique, which was also shown later in the debate, is developing in such a way that it does not lead to the destruction of residual embryos. It can now take place in a different way. We do have that openness. That is why we have adjusted our initial negative attitude. We'll be a little more careful in there. We still have our objections to the technization of reproduction, but the most fundamental objection is due to the progress of the technique.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u87	Thank you for that. Does Mr Van der Staaij foresee that there might be a moment for a slightly different weighting, now that we know that hereditary diseases that have very, very serious consequences for children from a scientific point of view may be relatively easy to remedy, I would like to say in relation to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Is it also conceivable that Mr Van der Staaij and his group will look at this differently? Without denying their ethical framework, I'll just say in biblical terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u88	There are certainly possibilities, but assuming the prowess of intrinsic values from the beginning, there will not be much change, or no change. We will not suddenly say: now we are in favour of it. But in hereditary diseases there are also possibilities to use stem cells that are not embryonal. So there is no destruction of human life, but you can have further progress in science. I saw that comments were also made in the coalition agreement. The point is that you are making even more use of these research avenues and are open to them. So yes, in another way, within that ethical framework, it is certainly progress in science if you can combat certain diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u90	Mr. Chairman. What is meant by quality assurance? In the explanatory statement, I read that this concerns, for example, the calibration of equipment, the testing of culture media, the optimization of genetic testing for those pre-implantation genetic diagnostics (PGD) and the training of new employees. Use of sex cells and embryos is necessary for this purpose. If I then again test the prowess of that beginning human life, then I see it as an instrumental use and therefore we cannot go along with this choice either. The second point is gender selection. There the government proposes to extend the possibility of selecting embryos on the basis of sex. If there is a risk of serious hereditary disease with an unequal sex indication in the child, embryos may be selected. In principle, the Embryowet prohibits gender-based selection. Children should not be reduced to the sole object of wish and desire of their parents. According to the Cabinet, the fact that this change of law does not lead to this is because the motive for the choice of sex has nothing to do with a preference for a particular sex. I understand. The motive lies, then continues the explanatory statement, in the desire of parents to spare a child serious suffering, and is therefore out of respect for the protection of the life to be created. I thought that was getting a little slippery, that this is out of respect for the protection of the life to be created. Isn't it about making a choice here from a vision of the quality of that life?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u91	Even if Mr Van der Staaij's last remark does give rise to further discussion, I actually had a question about what he said before. That was that the SGP is against the fact that embryos that are no longer used are not further developed, according to this legislative amendment, used for quality control. Do I understand from that that Mr Van der Staaij says: 'prefer to put them away, destroy them rather than yield anything for the quality of the whole process'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u92	No, my position is "prevent destruction."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yes, I understand. Thus, the SGP rejects this whole Embryo Act as it now stands, and certainly the amendment. Yeah, I got that, too. But then I do not understand why Mr Van der Staaij is still so concerned about the possibility of using embryos, because then you actually prefer to destroy them. I understand that you want to avoid that, but then further elaboration in detail is actually curious. Because this evokes the image of "destroying rather than using it for quality control."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u94	I have mentioned what is meant by quality assurance, to make it clear to the listener what this is about, with a quote from the explanatory statement which is understood by it. That's why. If I do so, I would like to thank Mrs Dijkstra for the opportunity to correct that. So it's not about the quality of life anymore. Isn't that at the same time the dilemma of measuring what is also severe suffering, which is serious enough to justify this particular choice? In that sense, I think, quite rightly, Mrs Dik-Faber's question, for example, how to weigh autism in that context. The law has been formulated very openly about a serious hereditary disorder with an uneven gender incidence. So it certainly isn't obvious in advance. You can say in the explanatory statement "we are thinking about these two diseases," but why couldn't they be others? That is the question that we, as the SGP Group, also have to ask for a proper understanding of the law. How exactly is that weighed? What does the decision-making process look like? How do you weigh the following? You can, as it were, objectively see how profound a particular condition is. But at the same time, if you look more personally, subjectively at how life is experienced with such a condition, then sometimes great differences are encountered there. There are also people in Mrs De Beaufort's essay who say about having a disease: no matter how difficult it was, we have experienced it as a blessing. I think it is quite something to say about a serious condition, but it is also the reality in the Netherlands. People say, "Can we still resist adversity?" Are we not trying to organize everything in our society in such a way that we are trying to eradicate any kind of suffering?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u95	No one is required to conduct research into genetic disorders in the family, or to choose a pathway for that. Of course, people who have serious conditions in their families do not need to use them. I always find that complicated when we talk about these issues. It is suggested that it should apply to everyone. Of course it isn't. You can make that choice in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u96	I understand the reasoning of D66, but it is a very rational, theoretical approach that everyone can choose for themselves. What does social reality look like? It was not the SGP, but for example Mrs Kant of the SP who said twenty years ago: how free are you in the end? If there are certain techniques to prevent diseases, a pressure may arise that it is justified to use you to combat certain serious diseases, including diseases we now name. What does that reflective even mean for the acceptance of life with such a condition? Couldn't it happen unintentionally to have its own effect? I think that's real questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u97	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that you should ask those questions and discuss them with each other, but you cannot assume that it works that way by definition. At least I don't see it in practice. I've spoken to parents who have something to do with that. One has made the choice to try through this route to prevent such a disease from continuing in the family, while others make a different choice. It is precisely about the quality of the conversation of professionals with the people who are dealing with these topics. I always think there's so little confidence in those professionals when you notice that this puts a lot of pressure on people. I think it is a good thing that the question is being asked, but I would not always like to call it one-sidedly: the pressure is growing and so we should not do it. There is, of course, a group that would like to make use of it. We shouldn't take that opportunity away from people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u98	That's the vision of D66. I understand the weighting. Nor was it my view that it is an automatism that it is always and for everyone who produces great pressure. That's true. At the same time, I also see a social reality. We have also discussed this issue about the abortion debate. If you can prenatally screen or prevent certain diseases with good techniques and methods nowadays, why do you let it happen? It's just that social pressure is on the table. People are wondering, why do you still choose that? The next step is that I have sometimes asked written questions about'moral duty'. I heard Mrs Dijkstra, in a different context, I say, use those words as well. When you say that it is a very serious condition and that it is a blessing if you can prevent it, can you not easily, not only socially but also simply ethically, get the vision that it is actually a moral duty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u99	Let's get this straight. I'm not putting that moral duty on the future parents who have such a wish. I said: I think it is a moral duty for us as a government to arrange for people to be helped if they want to. That is different from what Mr Van der Staaij is now suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u100	Then you've made this right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u101	I told you, in a different context. As I said specifically, what Mrs Dijkstra said in a different context. It's also about serious things. It's about serious diseases. That's why it's putting a lot of pressure on you. That's understandable and understandable. If you have opportunities to prevent it, then you wonder how to deal with those existing possibilities, which the government has said is right that they are offered to people. That's not a value-free thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u102	What makes discussions on medical-ethical subjects so different from discussions on other subjects is that you are always dealing with dilemmas. In that sense, I would like to respond to Mr Van der Staaij. I'm gonna jump to a different conclusion, because you're gonna weigh what you want to make possible and what you don't. But I do understand the dilemma that with choices you influence society. I also think it's good to name that, no matter what side you're on. With legislation, regulations and choices we make, we influence society. There's something normative about that; it's true. The question is what weighting you eventually make. Mr Van der Staaij makes a different weighting. I share Mrs Dijkstra's desire to make it possible for parents to do so, because that desire also comes from society to prevent them from burdening their children, as they experience, with very serious hereditary diseases. Can Mr Van der Staaij also imagine that some parties in this Chamber draw that conclusion and ultimately make it outweigh the disadvantages, such as the question of how we influence society with these choices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u103	Yeah, I think that's understandable. I understand those reasonings. This vision is also clearly expressed in all essays and parliamentary contributions. You're dealing with a certain increasing protection of life. In the beginning, that's different than later. If it can prevent suffering and serve happiness, then it is wise to take those steps. But it's precisely my understanding that worries me a little too. Because if you argue on that, you also think: now you say the border is here, but where will the border be drawn tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? Does that depend entirely on the social feeling or how doctors look at it? I think that is an inadequate basis. History also shows that societies and people can make very different choices that have not always been the right ones in retrospect. That's why I can understand it. Let me also compliment the Ministry. I found Mrs De Beaufort's essay and others valuable, because it highlighted both conservative and liberal perspectives. Otherwise you get something from: there's only one perspective, that's the liberal one, and we don't understand that some crazy people don't yet allow us the space to fight terrible diseases. If the notion of that wears out, I sometimes see that happening too......................................................................................................................................................................................... That's why I was happy to read that back in the play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u104	It might be good to say that GroenLinks' point of view is not that life is a lucky factory and that we can maximize happiness by turning some buttons. That's not how life works. So we have to have an eye for the shadows of life. That's what we need to talk about. That does not alter the fact that we are talking about such serious diseases that there is, of course, a difference in saying that striving to maximize happiness is the highest goal and that that means that we want to prevent these diseases. Those are really different things for me. Nor do I believe that if we allow this, by definition we will pave the way for all other forms of disease that we want to prevent. However, it is our duty and the duty of the Minister to enter into this discussion. So I also support my colleagues who have said that this is an important task for this minister: not only to facilitate the discussion in the country, but also to participate actively in it. How does Mr Van der Staaij view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u105	Everyone's contribution is valuable in this. The more voices are involved in this debate, the better it is. With regard to the diseases that would be eligible for pre-implantation genetic diagnostics, i.e. the examination of embryos for diseases, which, in order to do so, is always associated with test tube fertilization, I see on the other hand that even if I listen carefully to Mrs Ellemeet and others, for example, I do not see why you would, by definition, draw the limit in only very serious diseases. Why can't I see that? That is because it used to be said: it has to be about life incompatible diseases. Then it is even clearer that they are the most serious diseases. Later it is said: but these are also serious diseases. But if you finally take the step to say that this is a beautiful technique with which we can avoid suffering, why not turn it into something less serious? What's against that, anyway? I wouldn't know where the border would be drawn from the other approach, more from an approach of increasing protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u106	Proceed, Mr. Van der Staaij. Oh, Mrs. Ellemeet. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u107	What I regret is that Mr Van der Staaij pretends to be either or. I also believe that the progressive liberal parties here are saying very widely: we must also take account of the difficult aspects of life. So no one here says it's some kind of happiness maximization. That's a really different discussion. We also need to have that discussion with each other. We need to look at how society remains space for difficult aspects of life. However, this does not prevent society from developing. It is true that we may think differently about what we once thought was an acceptable category, the category of diseases that, as Mr Van der Staaij says, are not compatible with life. Yes, God, society... God, I say! ... society is developing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u108	Yes, God or society, that is indeed an important question in this debate. If I listen carefully, I honestly believe that it is different. In an ethical discussion a number of years ago it was about "a life-threatening condition." Now, for example, we are talking about an eye disease. I understand that that is very, very profound, and that such a disease can affect people. I'm the last one to take that easy. On the other hand, I don't quite understand where you're going to draw a line if you're actually saying it's a beautiful technique, and if we can use it to prevent emotional distress, why don't we do it? It fits the conservative perspective of always looking back at the question: if we say a today, what is the b that is coming tomorrow, and do we want to go that way? Mr. Chairman. I think I have already summarized the last part of my speech. So let me make a point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. About a year ago, the news came that a Chinese scientist would have given birth to the first genetically engineered baby. He would have crafted the DNA, which would have made two girls resistant to the HIV virus. A global wave of indignation followed. Well, that's understandable somewhere. The manipulation of our DNA is a new step, which is very promising on the one hand, because it can permanently eradicate innate diseases, hereditary diseases, but it could also open a Pandora box, of which we cannot now see the consequences. After all, once the DNA has changed, you don't just turn it back. It's passed on to future generation. If the resistance to HIV has unintended side effects, which we don't know yet, then the consequences could be catastrophic. So you better think about that. On the other hand, there are also major risks. For example, in the case of germ-track modification, there are risks of parents, scientists or countries seeking to build a better human species, a species in which certain physical characteristics become the norm. In a world in which this type of superhumans would become the norm, a large part of the people in this room today might never have existed, and that would be a shame. It is a very fundamental discussion. Avoiding disease is valuable and important, but it does raise the question: what society do we want to live in? That discussion was just right. Is a child with a hereditary disease still accepted in the future? Or is it said to parents: yes, you have chosen to give birth to a child so seriously ill? Mr Van der Staaij just quoted the words of one of my predecessors, Agnes Kant: when will freedom change into freedom, if we have created a social climate in which the norm is to eradicate all hereditary diseases, not to choose to have these children born? If that becomes the norm, then it may be that your freedom to decide for yourself whether you give birth to a child becomes an unfreedom because you are being watched. Think, for example, of the situation in Iceland, where Down's syndrome is now virtually non-existent. I don't want to say that's wrong. Because despite the fact that a lot of people have a positive feeling in a lot of people who have Down syndrome, there's of course nothing wrong with those people. You can't forget what a huge suffering lies behind people who are severely disabled because they suffer from that syndrome. I am not saying that what is happening in Iceland is wrong. I'm just saying that something like this could have very far-reaching social consequences. If you are bringing a child with Down's syndrome into the world in Iceland, then it may be that you are being watched on the terrace, in class or anywhere else: how can you have this child born in our country? That is something we must be very aware of in this debate. The idea of total protection of a fertilized egg as the beginning of new life does not apply to the SP fraction. I had that discussion with Mrs. Dik. After all, you should be against any form of abortion and even the spiral. For that reason, like most Dutch people, we are going out with a strong conviction, of increasing prowess. The importance of protection increases as the unborn child can grow into a human being. Mr. Chairman. The discussion I just touched doesn't play while we're talking about this bill. In the Netherlands there is a ban on the modification of human DNA, if it is intended to allow pregnancy. What we are discussing today is a law that has a much more limited impact. The cabinet proposes to extend the ban on sex selection in embryo selection in certain cases. I'm not going to make that step smaller than it is, because of course she's important to a group of parents. Only we shouldn't pretend it's about a very large group. I'd like to hear how big that group is, but it's really going to be a very limited group. Now sex choice is still permitted in those situations where there is a serious sexual disorder in a child. For example, a male embryo may be selected if it has been shown that the risk of the disease in the selection for a male embryo is not or hardly present while the risk is very high in the case of a female embryo. The cabinet now wants to extend this to a choice that may also be made in the event of an uneven gender incidence. To put it a little flatter: if a choice for a boy gives a 30% risk of hereditary disease and a girl 80% risk, then you could choose to do that which gives the lowest chance of getting that serious disease. That is, of course, a very good thing. It's all been named. These include diseases such as hereditary breast cancer and LHON, a serious eye disease. Enlargement is very limited but logical. We are talking about a few children who can be spared serious suffering as a result of this measure. That is a gain as far as our group is concerned. But as far as the extension of the Embryo Act is concerned, there is an important element missing as far as the SP Group is concerned. In addition to the proposed amendments, according to the law, another amendment is required in the Embryo Act. It is about the research related to the quality of the culture fluid. This issue was also discussed extensively in the round table we had on this subject. It is now necessary to cultivate embryos specifically for certain studies and treatments. These embryos are grown in a culture fluid. Specifically, they are liquids in which embryos are grown at the time of the IVF treatment. The strange thing is that in order to improve the effectiveness of IVF treatments, we need to grow embryos in order to realize research into culture fluids. But that is not possible. We must not breed embryos to increase the quality of the liquid. That is incredibly complicated, because it is allowed to use cultivation systems in IVF treatments, so it is not known exactly what consequences these fluids will have on the actual growth of the child. That's weird. The strange fact is that there is currently insufficient knowledge of the effects of the composition of this type of culture fluids, while it is known that these culture media can lead to a lower birth weight. And a lower birth weight, which we all know can lead to certain diseases and diseases in the long term. As I discussed earlier with Mrs Tellegen, we have therefore tabled an amendment to enable research into culture fluids. I'd like to explain why that's important. We now know that the breeding conditions in which an embryo grows have an effect on embryos. Good culture conditions can improve the effectiveness of IVF treatment and make that treatment more effective. This also means that women with a child's desire less often have to undergo IVF treatment. That seems to me to be an important step forward. It also means that you need significantly fewer embryos and so fewer embryos would be lost. I would think that is an argument that should be addressed, in particular, by the Christian Union Group. In today's practice, much more life is destroyed, the "destruction of life," as the Christian Union would call it, whereas it can be avoided with better breeding media. Right now, scientists say to us, 95% of the embryos that are intended for IVF are lost. One would say that anyone who values good and better treatments and the prevention of more residual embryos should be in favour of this amendment, which can improve both treatment and the number of residual embryos. This investigation must therefore not be carried out. I would add that sometimes it is said 'yes, but then you have to look for alternatives' or 'this law still regulates that embryos that remain after treatment can be tested'. Only scientists point out to us that this is about the earliest beginning. This is the first four days in which an embryo was created. It sounds a bit cocky, but then you don't have much use for the embryos that are left after an IVF journey because they are already too old, so scientists say to us. We believe that an adjustment is needed in this respect. That's all I wanted to do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Mr Jansen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u112	I have a very short question. At the very beginning you mentioned children with Down syndrome in Iceland. Don't you mean Denmark?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u113	Iceland in particular, but it also plays in Denmark. This is not so much about embryo selection, but much more about prenatal screening in those countries. Here's the optional one. Women get a whole conversation before, for example, they can take a NIPT test. Some of us do. Some of them don't. You can see that these tests are almost standard in countries like Iceland and Denmark. In the case of Iceland, most women choose to proceed to abortion if such a test shows that the child has Down's syndrome. That's their right. Of course. I will certainly not go into that, but the fact is that this can lead to social consequences, namely a society in which it no longer exists. That can just affect tolerance towards these people. We must all be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u114	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u115	Mr. Chairman. The CDA does not lightly step over the prowess of life. However, we do not lightly step over the suffering of people and families in which terrible hereditary diseases occur. Somewhere there's a limit to that. For what do these choices say about the human image of our society? Where is the intersection of our common morality and personal responsibility? The CDA believes that the possibility of pre-implantation genetic diagnostics for certain diseases should never send out the signal that it is best not to live with such a disease. With these words, our former spokesperson Henk-Jan Ormel, on behalf of the CDA, began his contribution in 2008 to the debate on the possibility that the cabinet wanted to offer to allow gender selection, if this could prevent very serious diseases. The same difficult considerations he mentioned at the time also play into the bill we are discussing today. After all, new human life must not become, as far as we are concerned, part of a creative and instrumental human image, possibly also of parents. Even if the bill we are debating today could be seen by some as only a small extension of the medical possibilities that have been permitted for years, it is and will continue to be the case that we are talking here about preventing people from being born, because they may be suffering from a very serious disease. It is then our responsibility to keep thinking about where we lay the line. After all, limitations are part of life, in all kinds of forms. It can never be the aim to exclude all restrictions from life through legislation or otherwise. Mr. Chairman. It is also our responsibility to assess whether the rules are still appropriate in the event of new medical developments. Research has now shown that in the case of untreatable eye disease LHON and hereditary breast cancer caused by a mutation in one of the BRCA genes, there is an unequal chance between young and girls to actually become ill. For these cases, this legislative proposal extends the possibilities of sex choice. That is a fundamental choice, because it is quite right that sex choice should come across in the legislation as we know it now. The framework set out in the Pre-Implantation Scheme for genetic diagnostics continues to apply, with particular reference to the need for an individual high risk of serious genetic disease. In addition, sex choice is allowed only if regular pgd treatment does not result in embryos without mutations or in continued pregnancies. A multidisciplinary team will also have to make a case-by-case assessment, advised by the National Indicative Committee pgd, if patients are eligible for gender selection. These are very careful framework conditions within which these choices are made in this law. Finally, in reply to our written questions, the Minister has confirmed that there is a right to not know for wishing parents, which means that no one has to feel compelled to participate in a pgd treatment. The CDA Group believes that these conditions reflect the difficult balance that everyone feels about this issue. The CDA will therefore also support the bill. Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal is accompanied by amendments to make it possible to specialise in the cultivation of embryos. As far as the CDA is concerned, the embryo is the beginning of human life. For us, that human life has intrinsically a relational purpose at all times. However, by cultivating embryos for scientific research, human life would be made with a purely instrumental purpose. The CDA Group will therefore not be able to support the amendments on this basis of principle. Mr. Chairman. Almost all of our questions to the bill were sufficiently answered by the Minister in the written round. I should like to comment on a single answer from the Minister. In his answer to our questions, he states that other spokesmen have that already mentioned autism will not be eligible for gender choice by means of pgd for the time being. It is not my intention to put this disease at the centre of attention but, as other colleagues have done, to check with the Minister what considerations will be made in the follow-up to this law. But the Minister states in the same answers that it cannot be excluded that, if it is sufficiently demonstrated that for certain forms of autism it becomes clear that a specific gene is responsible for varying prevalence between boys and girls, a new consideration can be made and a new choice can be made as to the desirability of sex choice. This is for the CDA a possible sliding scale in the law, on which we do not want to move immediately in advance. We'd rather not do that at all. There is a reason for the coalition agreement to extend the possibility of gender selection only in the case of very serious hereditary diseases. We know autism. I also know parents with children who have a very serious form of autism. That has a huge impact on your life. I don't want to go down for that, but it also has a spectrum. There are also lighter shapes. That is precisely what makes it important to carefully weigh that up. It is therefore a great question for the CDA Group whether the whole spectrum of autism should fall under that heading. I therefore agree with the questions put by other colleagues. Since this law leaves room for new considerations in the future, I wonder how these considerations will be made in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u116	I walk to the microphone with Mrs Dijkstra at the same time. I would like to echo the question she asked Mrs Dik-Faber. Why does Mr Van der Molen also bring the issue of autism to the debate when that is not the issue? What exactly is his purpose in that? Isn't it true that he's defiling the debate a little bit? I find that unpleasant to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u117	I have already indicated in what I have just said why I am producing the disease. It is not intended to bring forward a particular disease, so that people could respond to it. I would like to mention this example, which has also been mentioned by other groups in the written consultation, precisely in order to weigh up this law, a law which, in a sense, does not have a restrictive list of diseases but leaves open the possibility that new scientific insights may lead to new considerations. This disease can be very serious, but there are also milder forms of which we do not know in all cases whether they are exceptional for boys and girls. How would this trade-off take place in practice? I wanted to emphasise this in my speech precisely because I can well imagine that when such a disease is mentioned, the reaction played a role that Mrs Dijkstra gave, namely that it does not now fall within the scope of it. I understand. I totally agree with that, and I'm happy about that, too. The question is: how do we deal with this law in cases like this, for example if we learn more about this disease in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u118	This law deals with serious hereditary diseases, which have been found to be communicable to either girls or boys and which parents could therefore consider. That's what this law is about. This law is not about other conditions that could be either mild or severe, or so polite. That is why I do not think it is right for them to be included in this debate, because it is not about it. Let me just say it a little more clearly: we should not be suggesting that this is what this is about, because it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u119	In response to Mrs Ploumen, I have already mentioned twice, both in my speech and in my response to her first question, that that is not why I mention this disease. The example is chosen because it is a disease that has a spectrum. It is a good example, not so much to put the disease at the centre but to make a weighting with each other. If we know more about genetic predisposition at some point, for example the differences between the portability of this condition to boys and girls, I want to know how that consideration takes place. I have heard Mrs Ellemeet ask for this too. Then where's the border? It is certainly not the intention of me to put Mrs Ploumen at the centre of a disease and to have a view on it all of a sudden, but it is the intention to be able to tell the Minister's answers in a moment. I think that is an important question for several colleagues to ask today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u120	With this law, we do not change the very careful trajectory of the multidisciplinary team and all the conditions that exist, whatever you come up with. That's what I'm saying. As far as I am concerned, these concerns are not so relevant. I wanted to ask another question. The CDA spokesman says that an embryo should never be used instrumentally. He also welcomes the fact that we do not breed embryos for scientific research. But if you take the idea that it should never be used instrumentally, so never other than for reproduction, then why do we need social dialogue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u121	When it comes to the protection of life and the question of what life would be created, the CDA's view is that an embryo is indeed intended to eventually become a human being. That is also the construction that is present in an embryo. From our point of view, of course, it has the aim of becoming human and being relational. At a time when an embryo is being created for other purposes, such as an instrumental purpose to apply certain techniques or to do certain experiments, that is in conflict with our view. This does not mean that all cases are excluded, because other ethical views or considerations can play a role, which means that we need to rethink this matter. In this respect, our concern is whether we have a very careful system, not immediately off the table if we have done it properly on paper. Because we can arrange a lot on paper, but social reality may be more uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u122	Do I hear a little opening there? For you say that growing for scientific research is possible at some point, if it is aimed at................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's the point, of course. And so it's all focused, not on an instrument, so not on just doing experiments, but on improving the whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u123	I would like the latter to be included in an 'instrumental objective'. I have also indicated that it is not for this reason that we cannot support this type of proposal. If I may clarify, I would like to point out that you should also consider the protection of life and the prevention of suffering as a result of my contribution. At the moment when we have new situations, two very important ethical principles are suddenly competing, perhaps at the same level. In the context of this law, let me mention the example of the research that ZonMw is also doing on stem cells, for example. I have heard Mr Van der Staaij mention this as well. In a sense, they also use methods with an instrumental purpose. But in those kinds of developments, an ethical objection to creating life with an instrumental purpose may fall away. This may open up the room to apply research that can be supported both by people with, for example, a Christian belief in life and by people with a liberal belief in life, because ethical dilemmas disappear. There may also be studies which, for example, in the case of artificial fertilization, despite the desire to establish a family, which has a considerable weight, not only in international conventions but also in all kinds of philosophical views, allow for a different treatment of embryos. I would just like to say that you cannot close this ethical framework in such a way that everything that the world then gives to dilemmas should only be destroyed as far as the CDA is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u124	Very brief, finalizing. It's a pity that that ZonMw research shows that stem cells really can't do what you can do with the cultivation of embryos. I'd just like to point that out. But it's very good that we're talking about this. We will continue to do so for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u125	I would like to add that, of course, ZonMw is proposing to do long-term research on this because, based on the knowledge we have now, things may not be possible, where we could do some things in the future that are still unknown. That would, I think, be a very good route to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u126	I will come back to that point of autism. Since two colleagues said that this point is a bit of a tarnish of the debate and that that would not be the case at all, I would like to point out that in 'M/V PGD JA/NOE' by Potma, Van Veen and De Beaufort in Annex 6 it is precisely that case that has been presented. That's why it's in the pieces, too. So that is not meant to be a vote-making or anything, but simply as a genuine point. In England this plays and in the Netherlands it plays. So it is really a serious matter how you weigh the legal possibilities, but that is precisely why I had a question for the CDA Group. If you yourself raise that point, how do you look at the open wording in the law? From what do you derive the confidence that other diseases cannot easily be added to them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u127	That is a consideration that, for example, the Council of State has also put on the table in response to the law: if you name only the diseases that you now know for sure are covered by the scope of this law, so if you just put them literally into the law, you're actually done. My view is that there is another option, which is also more appropriate to the ethical considerations that we should make in the future with regard to the new state of affairs. That is that you do agree on a very careful procedure, in which choices are looked at in different ways, including from an ethical point of view, but that we do not therefore create a framework in the law that every time raises a discussion about a specific disease. Of course, I share with you, at least from your point of view, that we are also very critical of the risks involved. This could be a social risk, but there is also a risk that it could include diseases that would not fall under the heading "very serious'. That is precisely why I am asking the Minister, for example, how we deal with this consideration in this particular case, in order to test whether it is as careful as it is put on paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u128	I am struggling a little with this concept of 'instrumental use', because it is being used too often in my view to beat the discussion to death. I think it's a rather instrumental approach when you say that we now need a lot of embryos to achieve a successful IVF treatment, so we actually use more embryos than strictly necessary. Suppose you're doing research and it gets better, then it could be with a lot less, so I think that's a pretty instrumental approach. We use a lot more embryos to get to one or two successfully repositionable embryos. That is a reasonable instrumental approach to the trajectory. What if, as proposed in our amendment, you opted for a limited study of breeding embryos? It's called instrumental use. What if you can contribute to the ultimate goal of improving and strengthening that IVF treatment, ultimately bringing it to a success and creating new life? That's exactly the goal you and I are pursuing with IVF. If you look at that in a broader context, so not at the individual level, then is that an improvement, exactly in the direction that the CDA should want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u129	This is a case in which two views, of course, collide in a sense. Your goal is to make sure that fewer embryos need to be destroyed. That would be in keeping with the care of the process, but it would also be possible to destroy the ethical issue or embryos, because they are, of course, capable of achieving human life in a certain sense. We can share that with each other. The second element of the proposal that you have is: can we start to grow embryos for this purpose? I state the position of the CDA, not so much to beat the discussion to death, but simply to give a counter-argument. You can create embryos to enable a family and give people the opportunity to have children, because these embryos can indeed become human beings. That is a different view than creating embryos where the only goal is not to do that, but to do scientific research, for example. So I share the goal you're aiming for. We can give each other a hand in that. But I think you are taking a step that we cannot support from our point of view, namely the cultivation of embryos for that purpose alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u130	But these two cases are compatible, aren't they? Your goal is to create a family, to create a new life, and to prevent unnecessary destruction of many embryos. Those two things are very compatible when you consider it on a higher level. If you look at it at the entire individual level of that one embryo that would be used as a research object, then Mr Van der Molen is right. But if you pull it into a broader context and look at what is, across the board, for the long term, in full width, the effect would be if that treatment got better by being able to do limited research, then that is exactly what the CDA's story is about. Then we will work towards more successful treatments and fewer residual embryos. So I think this is a very close look at how we use embryos. If you look at it more broadly, you'll see that it strengthens each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u131	I think it is indeed a more limited idea of what to do with embryos. That's a difference of opinion about how you should deal with starting life, from your angle and mine. The proposal now before us extends a number of possibilities for embryos that are not placed back, including improving the process. The fact that I state that I can support that law also has to do with the fact that there is just another difference between embryos that are grown for a specific instrumental purpose and embryos that are created to enable, for example, pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u132	Please continue. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u133	No, I wasn't finished, but it's fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u134	You can finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u135	Yes, but that would be a summary of the foregoing, and the interruptions have also taken quite some time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u136	Look. That is also possible... unless Mrs Ploumen has a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u137	I have asked this question before, but to other colleagues. I therefore take the opportunity to ask Mr Van der Molen this question. I know the CDA as a party that considers it important that there is broad public support for political decisions. Sometimes you have to help build that support by providing good and complete information. Does Mr Van der Molen agree with me that the Minister should play a much more active role in this debate, not just here in the Chamber, but rather in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u138	I have heard several colleagues say what is their view of how this discussion should proceed from their own perspective. I am not dissatisfied with the way in which the Minister manifests himself in this debate. Nor is it the case that this Minister makes no mention of this. I am also looking at it from a different angle, namely that it can also be difficult for an open discussion if politicians adopt a position too strongly. Especially in the case of a minister who is present not only at the beginning of a discussion but also at the end of the discussion, when it should come to legislation, it may be difficult for him to commit himself to a particular position, even if it is only a matter of pulling the debate loose. I therefore think that the Minister should deal with this with caution. So I do not have the impression, as other colleagues have said, that it is too little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u139	Let me just say that I think it is an extraordinary quality and also a necessity that a government has views. 'Cause why else would she be there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u140	I think I would like to support my colleague from the PVV. He said in his maiden speech, but also in the event of interruption, that this discussion should be taken seriously and that you should not take an advance from a political point of view either. There are people coming together to discuss this openly. I also think that the Minister is making a contribution to this. If that is a matter of restraint, then there is something to be said for it. Because if a minister is going to weigh too much in such a debate and such an open discussion, it would be more likely to limit the space for those who want to talk about it from their own experience rather than give them room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u141	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. You referred to a debate in 2008 with Mr Henk Jan Ormel. I remember that very well. The PvdA was in the government with the Christian Union. I was a spokesperson and I was flagged by the opposition, I can tell you. Mark Rutte was in on it, just like Pechtold. So I was standing there all... Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u142	Well, I guess that was totally deserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u143	It's nice to... Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-23-tweedekamer-4.u144	I would just like to say that, by way of derogation from the schedule today, we are going to do it as follows. I shall suspend the sitting until 1.30 p.m. Then we have the arrangement, then we have a VAO and then we have votes. I think the Minister is very pleased with this change. Then we move on to the first term on the part of the government.
