ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the debate on the coronavirus. The list of speakers will be here any minute. I do have the first speakers. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA, then to Mr Klaver and then to Mrs Marijnissen. The list will be distributed shortly, but then you'll have an idea how we'll start. I call Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA. Before I forget, I propose to ask ten questions throughout the debate. It is up to you to decide whether to do so in the first or second term. Or not at all; then you can. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of a large part of the Chamber, I asked for a debate during the recess, because there is a need for this because the number of infections is increasing. When you think back to the incredible work of the caregivers, to the loneliness that people have had to experience, to the thump that many companies have received this spring, that must not have been for nothing. If the number of infections grows that way, we'll get back to that situation. That can't wait. We can't say: we'll do it in seven weeks, it's recess now. Mr. Chairman. When I see how the cabinet reacted to that last week, the word that comes to mind is "chaos." You can't say on Thursday that we're going to intensify the source and contact research and have the two biggest cities tell us on Friday: "No, we're going to scale it down, because we haven't hired enough people." You cannot say to the people on Thursday: 'We do not make commitments', 'I am not a dictator', said the Prime Minister three times to come up with a duty on Tuesday, on the eve of the debate. And you can't come up with strong criticism of young people if you're not critical yourself. But it's not too late. We can still get the virus under control. My goal would be today, opposition and coalition together, Chamber and cabinet together, to do what is needed: to opt for a clear, ambitious strategy to contain the virus. What is needed in concrete terms? Make sure that people can be tested more easily than they do now, for example if they don't have a car. What else does that take? That the source and contact investigation is in order. Make it clear, give targets, but also take over the German standard of five extra people per 20,000 inhabitants. Make sure the schools are safe to open on Monday. So go right around the table with municipalities and schools to make sure that schools are well ventilated and that anyone with peace of mind can go back to class after that big holiday. Make sure that care workers are protected and appreciated. So take over the guidelines such as the WHO and the ECDC for protective equipment, even if you don't work with covid patients, and increase the salaries of the healthcare workers so that we protect and hold them. Get me a quarantine kit. That is to say, meet people we ask to stay in isolation for two weeks for all of us. Help them to absorb lost income, for example for the self-employed. Help them with a grocery service if that's tricky. Make a hotel room available if there is no suitable living space. And yes, also introduce a simple obligation if people don't keep their end of the bargain. Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of July, we had 200 new infections a week, not even, less. Last week there were 4,000. We are obliged to all those people who voluntarily comply with all the rules, we are obliged to all those people who pay a price, we are obliged to all those people who are still suffering from the aftermath of this virus, because they have lost people, because they have long-term complaints, because they are concerned, because they were lonely in the nursing homes, we owe it to them now to do what is necessary. A clear line, an ambitious line, crisis communication from the cabinet aimed at bringing people along, but laxity, waiting and chaos can no longer be tolerated. The cabinet's gotta get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber has returned from recess, and it was necessary. The infections are getting back on track. I don't know about you, but I often feel like we'll be back in March. You can see it coming. Actually, it's not too bad how things are now in hospitals. We can still make it work, but we know that this could get very serious. That's why we're here together. To make clear to the Netherlands what task we are facing now. We have to prevent another lockdown at all costs. If it goes on the way it's going, it's going to happen. No one wants that. That is bad for the economy and perhaps even worse for all those people who are going to be in isolation. And we put people with vulnerable health at risk with it. Mr. Chairman. That is why we need to take additional steps. I do not necessarily mean that a great deal of new policy needs to be developed now. I see, above all, major problems in the implementation of what has been rolled out. We knew it would be hard. Sometimes it's understandable, but sometimes more could have been done. For example, I look at the capacity for the contact research at the GGD. It has been pointed out in this Chamber since early spring that this capacity needs to be increased much further. There's been a misjudgement of the time it takes to test people. That didn't go well. That capacity therefore needs to be increased much further. What also did not go well is that it has been quiet lately. We're asking for a change in people's behaviour. That means you have to tell us what we're on our way to all the time. And where are we going? Are we working towards a vaccine? What if that vaccine doesn't come? Do we work towards a treatment method? What if that treatment method doesn't work? Are we going to work towards a test society? What are we working towards? What do we ask of people? The cabinet has forced us to keep a distance of 1.5 metres from each other and observe hygiene rules. But I think it should be even better when it comes to testing. The cabinet tells me that "people really need to get tested." Yeah, I'd like that, too. But the sigh "please let yourself be tested" is not enough. We have to keep explaining how important it is. We need to remove thresholds to do this. That's why I'm not against punishing people who don't follow the rules. But that's not enough. That's actually the end piece. Last week there was a liberal who said: we are not a police state. We're not gonna do any of this. Now there is a very conservative reaction: we must make it criminal. In between, there is a whole world of measures that can be taken to encourage people to be tested. I'm worried. In that first phase we constantly said: we do it together. We'll do it together. I find the tone that is now being used against young people, for example, unjustified and worrying. Yeah, kids need to stick to rules better. I say to every young person who looks now and thinks that it will not be this fast, that it will. The danger is not only that you can infect your grandparents or people who are seriously ill. The danger is also that we are going to go into lockdown and the freedom that is now there will be no more. Today's figures also show that young people are as concerned about the future with corona as older people do. We should not divide our society by pointing out each time that it is their fault. I expect a government, this cabinet, to communicate clearly to these young people what needs to be done, what needs to be done and why testing is important. Is it annoying to do that now after four or five months? Yeah, that's it. And yet we must continue to do so. Mr. Chairman. Testing must have an even bigger role. The Special Envoy who has been appointed has done a fantastic job. We have plenty of tests and we need to use them even more. I would therefore like to ask the Cabinet to consider taking preventive tests in the nursing homes. With regard to top sport, I now notice that in the football competition all footballers and staff are being tested. In formula 1, this is exactly the same. Safe bubbles are created to work in. This doesn't happen in health care. I would like the cabinet to give nursing homes the opportunity to do this. Finally, the schools. I want to hear from the cabinet unequivocally that the schools are opening. It's not an option to keep schools closed for longer. I want us to do everything in our power to save neither money nor effort to make this happen safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing we're here today. The number of infections is increasing and this also raises people's concerns. Sometimes there are things that you already know, but which still scares you at the moment you hear and see them. That's what I had in the reportage of Nieuwsuur, in which people from the care department spoke. They said that their assessment is that due to the lack of protective equipment people have become unnecessarily ill and even people have died unnecessarily. This is, of course, something we have often discussed in this Chamber: the lack of protective equipment for our care. The next thing I want to know about the cabinet is, I think, the most important thing today. We must take everything out of the closet to prevent that second wave or at least delay it as long as possible. I'd like to know from the cabinet what about the protective equipment if that second wave comes anyway. Are we ready then? I understand from the cabinet that the words "iron stock" have fallen. I have the following question: is this stock based on the current directive on the use of protective substances? We consider this directive to be far too limited. This one says that in principle you should only wear protective equipment if you are dealing with people who are infected with corona, unless you argue otherwise. Anyway, that's not the starting point. We want a directive which is based on the principle that a health care professional can decide to wear protective equipment himself. This should apply to all caregivers, even if they are not already dealing with corona infections. This is also in line with the ECDC. That's the European RIVM. I therefore ask the cabinet why it is still not being chosen in the Netherlands to follow this international directive, for example; also because we now know that two days before you have complaints you can infect other people. The source and contact research is another important point I would like to discuss today. We've talked about this a lot. My question to the cabinet is: does the cabinet still have sufficient vision and control over how this is going? I am asking because we are concerned about this. We have these concerns because we are seeing a press conference of the Cabinet, which does not mention the problems of source and contact research. Less than 24 hours later we hear from the GGD's that they in no way have the fireplaces where it is most necessary to do good source and contact research... have too little capacity to do so in the bold way that we want to see it. This must be done in accordance with the government's strategy of being on top of it as soon as the virus appears somewhere, ensuring that the fire is kicked out. We all know that the source and contact research is crucial. We therefore find it unacceptable, really unacceptable, that we are already getting signals that capacity is inadequate. So we are not yet in the second wave; we were able to hear this at the press conference. I'd really like to hear from the Cabinet how it looks at this. How did the cabinet organize control? The word "chaos" has already been mentioned here. I think that applies here, too. How does it happen that at least it has that look? We already saw this when expanding, scaling up the GD. It was promised here that this would happen. Then we see someone from the GGD on TV saying they actually don't know anything yet. Then there is extensive and scaled-up, but then one of the GGD says in the newspaper: "Our people are only playing thumbs-up. We'll send some home." Yesterday we had someone from the G.D.D. visiting the hearing. It has told us that 550 full-time people are now in the shell for this purpose, even though we agreed here months ago that we would expand to I believe about 2,000 people. So my question to the Minister is: how is this possible? How did this happen and how did he get that control back as soon as possible? Then our caregivers. When asking if we're ready for a second wave, I'm seriously worried about our people in care. They indicate massively: no, we are not ready for that second wave, we are not even on breath of the first wave. Add to that to the use of protective equipment, where we still have this conservative RIVM directive for the lack of protective equipment. It has not been adapted since the end of May, which should no longer be an argument. Add to this the lack of appreciation. We see in the studies that a substantial proportion of the people who are now working in care, taking everything into account, says to consider doing something else; with the rising workload, too few colleagues and the lack of appreciation. We have had entire discussions before the summer about structurally better appreciation for caregivers. It shouldn't just be that applause. We have now been able to take a vacation and organize our thoughts. I would very much like to know from the cabinet whether it has come to new insights on this point. How is the cabinet going to get that structural appreciation for caregivers? One: because those people deserve it, and two: because we as a country really can't afford these people to do anything else. We need them as much as we can, and that's why we need to appreciate and better protect our caregivers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Madam President. The corona approach of this cabinet is raging on all sides, and I still express myself with caution. The important way in which people can be infected by microdrops, the so-called aerosols, is scandalously underestimated. Researchers shouldn't investigate ventilation problems. They're even banned from talking to the media. The source and contact research is scaled down instead of scaled up. The absence of people who are often not even sick is punishable. And the care staff hasn't gotten a penny yet. Thanks to the gift from Prime Minister Rutte, who he gave away at the euro summit, France receives some 40 billion as a gift and the French health care workers receive €2,000 net structuralally, while our own care heroes, who are at risk for our own lives and ready for us, are still waiting for a one-off bonus, let alone getting something structural. For that, Mr. Rutte, you should be ashamed. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to corona, there's no need to panic right now. Of course, it is worrying that the infections are rising, but the facts are also that there are currently 30 people in intensive care. That's different from the 1,400 people four months ago. But it is important, of course, that colleagues have already talked about the need to be prepared for what might come. The cabinet, I have already said, is trivialising infections through microdrops to this day as an important source of contamination. It's not just unwise. That's irresponsible. After all, summer is almost over. The birthdays, the family dinners that have often been held in the garden, in the street or in the park in recent months, will soon be moving in. Summer holidays are also almost over. So kids go back to school. If those interior spaces are not ventilated in the right, responsible manner, Corona can indeed strike again. The consequences will be incalculable, not for hospitals, but also for our economy. You can't take it down again. Then our country goes bankrupt. So avoid that, and make sure that a plan or a quality mark is made up for the right ventilation for indoor spaces. That's crucial. We've seen where wrong ventilation can lead in that nursing home in Maassluis, in different slaughterhouses and in cruise ships. We've seen it in many places. Mr. Chairman. It also goes terribly wrong in the crucial source and contact investigations. Minister de Jonge said last Thursday at a press conference that the GGDs were amazingly scaling up and that it could all be done. Not a day later it appeared that the GGDs of Amsterdam and Rotterdam-Rijnmond were just going to scale down. Last week, 30% of the infected did not even carry out any source and contact studies. How the hell is that possible now that the virus's been around for six months? Mr. Chairman. As usual, the Minister of Health comes with a lightning rod so that he doesn't have to talk too much about this. That lightning rod is the mandatory quarantine. The cabinet wants people who have been in contact with infected persons to stay at home and, if they do not, to criminalise them. These are people who are often not even infected. That's disproportionate. It seems like Minister de Jonge is overcompensating his lack of authority by suddenly getting into the overdrive. We do not support that. That'll be counterproductive, too. I don't think a lot of people are going to use the app that's coming up from September 1st, for this reason. It's not enforceable either. Are people gonna get a cop or a boa on the doorstep now? That's insane. Don't. Just like we shouldn't start with the general duty of mouth cap. Mr. Chairman. Then the ic capacity. There too, the bar is too low. Minister De Jonge says: I'm going to manage a possible second wave with 1,600 ic-beds. I tell him, and I told him before, that Germany has six times as many per capita. Take care of it, Mr. Secretary. We must also make the masks, the glasses and the aprons more in our own country. We need to be less dependent on abroad. Mr. Chairman. Finally, something about a possible vaccine. I'm afraid it might be a while before there's a vaccine. A complicating factor is that the virus appears to have mutated many times. I read in a newspaper on the weekends that there would already be eight large strains of that virus, which, of course, makes the effects of a vaccine questionable. I ask whether the Cabinet agrees with me that we certainly need to focus much more on developing an effective treatment method and medicines than on a vaccine for the short term. That can give a lot of suffering and also a lot of ic-capacity. I ask the cabinet whether I agree and, if so, how we can promote that medicine and the treatment method to get there faster and more debilitating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr. Chairman. In each corona debate questions have been asked about testing capacity and source and contact research. In every debate, Minister De Jonge tried to reassure us. On 20 May, for example, he counted us on the capacity of the regional GGDs that it would succeed with an X number of hours per source and contact research. He said, "I feel like they're gonna be okay there." Mr. Chairman. This is where it went wrong. It was a huge error of assessment, because that X number of hours was less than half of the number already advised by the WHO and the ECDC to the minister in March, namely 12 hours. How did this happen, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In the same debate in May, the Minister gave carte blanche to the GGDs, and no financial restrictions. But now it's beeping and cracking at the G.D.D.'s. 30% of the infected persons do not receive a source and contact study. Within 24 hours of last week's anointing press conference, the Minister was surprised by the fact that Amsterdam and Rotterdam are defecting. We're in a pandemic, and the source and contact research is basically at the heart of the strategy. It is not sufficiently regulated, and then we do not even test within the maximum capacity. That is very worrying. That's why I'm telling the Minister to take care of it. I do not mean to threaten with periodic penalty payments and penalties. Yesterday's message came across as a lightning rod. Can't we seduce instead of threatening the judge? Can we, for example, have people from orange areas tested on day zero and on day four of their quarantine, even if they have no complaints? Can we not ensure that quarantine time can be shorter, as RIVM said yesterday in the technical briefing? So seduce, instead of threatening with the judge, so that we can tackle this corona crisis together. Mr. Chairman. In May I made a proposal to involve young people better in the corona measures. The Prime Minister reacted somewhat laconically in that debate. As the number of infections increases, especially in that group, the reins are disproportionately attracted. I cannot explain to young people that the study or rowing association may organise activities, but not a student association. I call on the Prime Minister to treat student associations in the same way as study and sports associations, so that security regions and associations can make good agreements, which can also be maintained locally. I ask the cabinet to make this a soft landing operation, with more attention being paid to new students in the first 100 days of the study, starting a new life in a new city. We must prevent freshmen from dropping out because they remain anonymous and know their fellow students and teachers only from the screen. Mr. Chairman. Schools, teachers, parents and students are concerned about the possible role of ventilation systems in spreading the coronavirus. There's still uncertainty. I would urge that clarity be speeded up so that measures can be taken and schools can open their doors with confidence. The first schools are opening up next week. Finally, Mr President, a number of specific points. Can the Prime Minister explain why people need to wear masks in the State Department, but not visitors to nursing homes, even if the 1.5 metres cannot be maintained there? Does the Prime Minister agree with me that the travel advice within the European Union is currently very confusing and sometimes even contradictory? And if so, what can we do about it? Unlike for example Curaçao, Bonaire should not demand a negative corona test if people want to travel to the island. An outbreak on Bonaire would be dramatic for tourism, but above all because there is no ic capacity on that island. Is the Cabinet prepared to give Bonaire this power? I am considering a motion on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	I see Mr Asscher standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	D66 rightly judges the cabinet's error of assessment in terms of the number of hours of source and contact research. Today, the NRC Handelsblad reports that the upshot plan communicated in the Chamber is far from being achieved, thus squeaking and cracking the day after the press conference, in which it was said that it would be intensified. How do you judge that extra fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	I also heard the GGD representative say yesterday that they're on schedule with that rampage plan. But I read that, for example, there are still five hours for the source and contact research, while it is now very clear that they are not going to make it with those five hours. In fact, I will come back to my appeal to the Minister: arrange it! It is busy now, but I think it was Mr Wilders who rightly indicated that the number of infections is concentrated in particular within a group that is less vulnerable as a group. It's gonna be really exciting if the virus continues to spread in the fall. We now have a few weeks before people come back from vacation and go back to work. In fact, 'worried' is the only thing I can say to Mr Asscher's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is a clear answer, which I very much agree with. I do not think we can wait for a new promise and then note that it is not going well. We don't have time to lose. The GGD chairman says he needs fewer hours on television because they have better computers than other countries. We can't afford this kind of naivety anymore. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that perhaps as a Chamber we should also say that the cabinet should not only apply the standard of hours, but also, for example, the German standard for how many staff is needed, in order to survive well over the next few weeks and months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Yes. I do feel the urgency of making that kind of statement here today. But I find it difficult to announce Germany's standard here by motion or so, because it is still a question of how quickly you recruited those people and whether they can actually get started on that source and contact research. People at the GGD are now working very hard and everything is being done to bring as many people as possible. My main point, also in connection with last week's press conference and last night's letter, is: let us not get into the cramp and into the repression, but above all continue to explain to the Netherlands why it is so important for people to be tested and cooperate in the research of sources and contacts. Let's see how you can do that in the most accessible way possible, as you yourself said in your contribution, so that as many people as possible continue to participate. I find it difficult to tell each motion how the cabinet and the GGD should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mr Asscher, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	I agree with both parts. I also said in my contribution that you are not going to convince people with a communication where you say one day "we don't do obligations" and the next day you will. You're not gonna convince people with that, and you're definitely not gonna convince young people. But I think it's side by side. I am very curious about the response of the cabinet to this, but certainly as far as the capacity of the GGD is concerned, since April, we have indicated that it needs to be improved. I think it is necessary to put an end to this discussion in this House, but let us talk about it later in the debate. On the contrary, I would like to see opposition and coalition brought together today to clarify an ambitious strategy so that it can be controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Thank you. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	It's good news that the D66 group at least thinks they're gonna have the system of criminalising the crime. That's what I heard him say, isn't it? It does not support people who are required to be quarantined. He says: seduce the people to that, start testing. Tempt people to do that, get your business in order first and then go and force that citizen to do something, with all criminal acts and you name it. Can I ask him what he's going to do to prevent that coalition of his from introducing that criminality? Because the cabinet that you support has decided to do so; we saw that letter yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	As far as I am concerned, this is one of the subjects in this debate. Indeed, I do not agree to resort to the means of criminalisation now. I find it panicky to announce that now, if you're not in your own right. I also think it is counterproductive if we ask people to give us contact information voluntarily in the catering industry and if we ask people to participate voluntarily in source and contact research, the result may be that someone you gave up for it will get the enforcement on his roof. In my view, then, people will only become more reluctant to cooperate. So my question in this debate to the cabinet is: how are you going to force and punish people, seduce them to work as easily as possible? I am waiting for that question to be answered in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	Once again, congratulations to Mr Jetten. I don't say that often, but now I'm doing it honestly. Nor is it often the case that one of the leaders of one of the coalition parties blames the cabinet for panic. I think you're absolutely right about that, by the way. I understand you're waiting for the answer. I can imagine that they are not going to withdraw that letter today, and if they do not, then I hope that perhaps a small historical point, too, is that together, PVV and D66, we can table a motion to at least get the Chamber to say to the cabinet that it should not do so. Are you prepared to do that if they don't listen to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	I think I have made it very clear how I look at this point and I am going to await the reply of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	Mr Jetten is talking about seduction, and I have heard Mr Asscher speak about it. But seducing us: we have been talking about nothing else every day for months but about the importance of sticking to the measures. I wonder what ideas Mr. Jetten has in seducing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think that is in a number of points. First of all, of course, just continuous good communication and information from the government. What's going on? Why do we ask you to keep your distance? Why do we ask people not to look for crowded places? You name it. In that my own view is that in recent weeks we have just had less information and communication than in the times when we were really high in the number of infections. Of course, people also see that hospitalisations are much lower and therefore feel the urgency a little less. This also needs to be strengthened by the government. In this respect, I do see a number of points of light, for example the possibility of shortening quarantine time, so that people do not spend unnecessarily long healthy time at home; more often testing, for example on day zero and on day four, as it is done in a number of other countries. This shows you to Dutch people: even if you don't have any complaints, it's a small sacrifice to stay home for a few days, to cooperate in that testing and that source and contact research, so that we know for sure that you can get back to work and not be a danger to others. Because in the end I do believe that no one in the Netherlands gets up in the morning with the idea "I'm going to infect other people with corona." We must return to that sense of urgency which, in my opinion, stirred up the cabinet very well in March, April. Together we can defeat Corona. That's what I want back. This requires a lot of communication, but also that testing and source and contact research are organised in a very accessible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	It would be very nice if that would work like that. But think about the overcrowded beaches. I have seen a report on young people in Chersonissos who do not comply with any measure. There are young people who do not want to participate in the source and contact research. That temptation sounds very nice to me too, but I am starting to get more and more doubts about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	I understand what Mrs Sazias said, because I sometimes get an uncomfortable feeling too......................................................................................................................................................................... But I still don't think it's gonna help if you say "we're gonna criminalize it." Firstly, I am afraid that we will be standing here in a month's time and will all be ashamed that there is no one in this country who maintains it. Because are we going to ask the GGDs, the boas or the police if they want to maintain the quarantine of people, at home, at the door? Those are all organisations that say: we are already so busy. So I see that actually counterproductive, regardless of the behavioral effect it is going to have, namely that people are going to be less involved in all kinds of things that we are now asking of them. After all, there is no point in calling for such a criminal offence on themselves or on people who have been given up in such a source and contact investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Like Mr Jetten, I was surprised yesterday. We haven't heard from Mr De Jonge for a while and suddenly he comes up with the word "mandatory." I thought it was a bit of a new word. Something's mandatory or not. Now Mr Jetten says: I am not in favour of that; we should not do that, but I am waiting for the answer. The way I read the letter, it's pretty clear. The Minister has asked the D.A. to look for an appropriate sentence. The GGDs have been asked to see if they can register names and contact details. What else does Mr Jetten want from the cabinet before he indicates his agreement or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	That was in response to Mr Wilders, who said that we could make a motion together in just a moment. I thought that was going a little too fast. We are also holding debates of this kind in order to critically question the cabinet about what we hear in these letters of Parliament, but my group is absolutely not in favour of that sanctioning part of that quarantine. We are going to look at what conclusion to draw at the end of the debate, but I think it is quite clear how I am in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	Clear. Would it also be wise for the Council of State to review that in advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	I think that one of the reasons why it is good that we often debate the Corona approach here in this House is that we, as a Chamber, should also see whether we consider it proportionate and whether we find it compatible with the rule of law. We have also made statements on this as a Chamber before. I can imagine that if this requires legislative changes, we would ask the Council of State to advise specifically on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	I think it is very good that D66, as I see it, should take a very critical tone towards the cabinet about really failing to carry out that source and contact research, which we have indeed talked about very often here, but also about that mandatory quarantine. For a lot of people, they fall out of the sky in one go. I agree that seducing or perhaps just helping and facilitating people to stay home might be a much better strategy. But I'm curious. Mr Jetten mentioned a number of things, but would he also consider that it is extremely difficult for, for example, a self-employed person, a self-employed person or a caller to be given such an order to stay home for two weeks? After all, you're losing your income, or you might have an annoying employer who says, "I'm just expecting you at work."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	Your question, Mrs Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	Mr Jetten says that we need to do a lot more of this seduction. So the question is whether he is also willing to think about how, for example, we deal with people who lose their income as a result. Does he also see that that can really be a threshold for people to stay home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	I agree with Mrs Marijnissen that sitting at home for 14 days can have a big impact on your job or whatever. Do you have to compensate for that? I think that is going a little too fast now, but I do think it is important that the cabinet, if it wants to continue with this mandatory quarantine, should consider the socio-economic impact it has. But first of all, I don't think it's wise to do it this way anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All of us made sure that the number of infections decreased significantly. As a result, many entrepreneurs could open up their business again and earn a living, students can really get lessons again and we could have another drink on the terrace. But only if we stick to the measures, because the virus is not on vacation. However, the corona rules are exceeded massively. The number of infections increases by the day. The source turns out to be very often the private sphere: parties of students, funerals, weddings and cozy meetings with family and friends. Then people wait with the testing, while sometimes they have been having complaints for days. Corona rules are less enforced and rightly, young vulnerable people with the action #NoDorHout make it clear how they no longer have a life. And why would caregivers be working their butts off if we don't do our civic duty? Mr. Chairman. The CDA wants all rulers in their area to take measures to reverse the rise and for the Cabinet to come forward with an action plan with at least the following elements. More and clearer communication. Anyone can expect him to do his civic duty, but it helps if you not only tell the how and what, but also clearly explain the why of the measures. Identifying socio-economic impacts, such as business closures and unemployment. For example, carousel operators, catering operators and sports providers continue to suffer from measures that are not followed. But also denying false information and giving answers to questions, including about mouth caps. Should they no longer be used in nursing homes, for example? And to what extent can we also produce the material for mouth caps ourselves? And then better maintain it. It makes no sense if regionally new rules are devised, but the basic rules are not enforced. That also creates uncertainty. It is shocking to read that there are almost no more corona fines being handed out and that enforcement is slackening. Contaminated people who don't go into quarantine are antisocial. It is good that the Minister has now decided to impose a quarantine obligation, but as far as the CDA is concerned, that is something besides all the other measures. As far as the CDA is concerned, that obligation may also apply to tests. If you're from a risk area, a test should be mandatory. If there are legal obstacles here, the CDA wants them to be removed quickly. We'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. Previous questions from the CDA on ventilation were told that buildings have to comply with the Construction Decision. There would be, at the request of the CDA, a simple version, a checklist. Is it there yet? We didn't see it. Last night, a letter came in with an RIVM investigation from early July. Pretty late. Why are its conclusions premature? How will the Minister of Education ensure that schools are supported as soon as possible in how they can and should ventilate indoor spaces? Next week, schools in the North region will open and parents need to know their children safely. What's gonna happen for the nursing homes? We also like to hear a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Rapid testing and good source and contact research are, in addition to the measures, the main tools to control the corona virus, but there are still long waiting periods, of 48 hours, even in Friesland where there are almost no infections. People even get the comment when they call the GGD: if you don't have a fever, you don't need to be tested. That can't be true. The scaling-up of the source and contact research is extremely slow. It is good that the Minister for Defence is working, but we would like to hear how he is going to take other measures to make this more effective. Does the Minister agree with the CDA that MBOs can also do this work? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	Thank you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	In her own contribution, Mrs Van den Berg says that a number of things, such as source and contact research and testing, are simply not yet in order. Doesn't she agree with me that the cabinet is moving very quickly towards this mandatory quarantine? Can the government ask if she doesn't have her own affairs in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	I find it extremely regrettable that the word "obligatory" has been dropped at all, precisely because we have shown that in the first few months we had up to 40 infections in the week; Mr Asscher also said so. And now we're at 600 infections. I absolutely believe that the government should take on all these other actions, but under the current circumstances I can well understand that this duty is now being used. So you also need to see how you can make that quarantine shorter; I believe that Mr Jetten has just brought that up. And how can you make things a little easier for people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	It would indeed be very nice if we could make that quarantine a little shorter and a little easier. But what if, on top of that, we also introduce that quarantine obligation? How does the CDA see that? How are we going to maintain it? Who's gonna do that? Are we gonna ring people at the door to make sure they're home? So what's the next step? I'm just trying to imagine what that duty and enforcement will look like, and what it's going to do with the support in Dutch society for trying to get back to the phase we were in together in March and April, when everyone kept to those rules much more neatly than they are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	Yesterday we also heard from Mr Van Dissel that it is striking that 80% of the people who are in Category 1 contact are not infected. Mr. Van Dissel also indicated on a question from the CDA that the circumstances can still be decisive. So I can well imagine that the circumstances and the chances of a higher infection are also being looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	That is sensible, but that is not really a concrete answer to the question of how to maintain that quarantine, especially when you consider that indeed many of the people who come up with such a source and contact research are healthy and not infected. It goes quite far: someone has been in a café and has been infected there, and then all the people who were there are given an obligation to sit unnecessarily at home. So we must also constantly weigh up what is proportional in the measures we take to stop that corona virus. I really think that we are moving very quickly towards a very disproportionate measure, which we probably cannot maintain and which undermines the basis of support. So I ask Mrs van den Berg once again how the CDA intends to actively maintain that quarantine obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	I agree with Mr. Jetten that we really need to see which people are covered by this quarantine obligation. The fact that we have been in this Chamber together does not mean that we have all had very close contact. So I think that should be looked at very carefully. Yet, the GGD is now getting signals and it is seen that people are clearly not in the place where they should be when they are called. So it's up to the G.D.D. to pass that on. They have to pass it on when they worry and say: in this case, it's just really super dangerous. Then the mayor can intervene on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	Mrs van den Berg of the CDA spoke about clear communication, but that is precisely something I am not observing. I speak a lot of people in society. It's just unclear. The corona app is unclear. The emergency law, which is supposed to enter into force on 1 July, is unclear. How it is tested is unclear. Elements are added and removed. How can Mrs Van den Berg say that there is good communication from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	No, I may not have put this forward strong enough: we believe that the cabinet needs to communicate more. I'm getting a lot of e-mails about this. On the one hand they come from people who dare not go on the streets at all. They say: other people do not comply with the measures, I am already vulnerable and now I am afraid to do nothing at all. And those e-mails come from the other side of people who say: yes, don't be silly, because there's really nothing going on. Conspiracy theories even pass by: the pharmaceutical does this to get rich. I therefore believe that the cabinet should indicate much more clearly why certain measures are needed. But the cabinet must also answer people's questions, and also disprove and contradict false information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	Thanks for agreeing. We'll talk to some of the same people, because I'm getting these complaints, too. Would it be an idea to periodically inform people in the form of a corona lecture in which you can answer questions and in which the latest insights are shared? Because like you, I get a lot of people with me who say, "I don't really know what I'm up to. Where the hell are we? How's the vaccine coming? What about the development of that app? How's the emergency bill coming? What's going on there all the time?" I get a lot of questions about that, too. Is it an idea to periodically inform about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	In the very first debate, I believe on 5 March, we, as a CDA, advocated what we call a 'coronajournaal'. Whatever it's organized, it's fine. We've seen an information hour a few times where people could all ask questions. Maybe it should be used more often. But we just find that on the one hand there are people who are actually denying it because they see stories on social media, and on the other hand there are people who are not dared at all anymore and are extremely anxious. Just as we have traffic rules that allow pedestrians and lorries to all participate in traffic, we must ensure that everyone can participate in corona time and that we keep society and the economy running.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are finally having a debate on the corona virus, which we so much like. The most responsible ministers went on vacation. There's a big fire going on, but the fire commanders went on vacation. And the virus isn't on vacation. More than 600 infections are added every day. That's more than Germany, with 80 million inhabitants. Behavior is the key to controlling the virus. The most bizarre behavior that came along was the duty to wear a non-working mouth cap in public transport and the ban on a working mouth cap. How crooked can it get? RIVM continued to create confusion with Norwegian research that mouth caps would not work. The author of the piece reacted quickly: the RIVM did not understand. The mantra "taking 100% decisions with 50% knowledge" should be replaced by "sowing 50% confusion with 100% stubbornness." Behavioural change requires clarity and credibility. This is not enough with the irregular press conferences, where we are all anxious about what we can and cannot do again. Yesterday, the mandatory quarantine came out of a box like an idiot. This unpredictability provokes resentment. It even leads to behavior that we don't want: avoiding testing. If you want people to be tested quickly, make sure that there are many more test sites without waiting times and without threatening mandatory quarantine and even punishment. You'd better give them a gift certificate for your troubles. Just as the KNMI warns with color codes in extreme weather, there should be color codes for corona. Each color code includes a set of behaviors. You'll know exactly what's expected of you. It'll wear off. It also works with a possible next virus. Quickly create a crystal clear behavior model. Communicate it so that everyone knows and understands. It's all too much snap now to make a real behavior change. A detailed proposal for our colour code can be viewed on the website partyforthefuture.nu. I have a print for the minister. I would very much like to hear a reaction to that. Finally, I agree with the questions about ventilation in schools, offices and nursing homes. The directives have changed, but there is still a great deal of uncertainty about them. In other countries we have seen that good ventilation can save lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you. Mrs Sazias has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned and that is why we are here. We have to do everything we can to avoid the mistakes of the first wave. As far as we are concerned, the reactions are too lax and too weak. 50PLUS is very concerned about the nursing homes. We must not repeat what happened there during the first wave. The fact that elderly people were isolated in their rooms for weeks, sometimes months, without family visits, is truly inhumane. How does the Minister intend to prevent the drama of nursing homes during the first wave? The balance between physical health and the quality of life must be carefully considered. This must be done above all in consultation with the people themselves and their families. Can the Minister reflect on this? Our prime minister spoke at the Cat House with young people and with people from Black Lives Matter. That's very good. But 50PLUS would like to urge the Prime Minister to invite the elderly and their families to the Catshuis, so that it is decided with the elderly and not over their heads. It's a good thing we're getting research into ventilation systems in schools right now. Is the Minister going to speed this up too? Just as urgent is the same research into ventilation systems in nursing homes. We saw it in Maassluis. We shouldn't wipe that under the rug. RIVM has amended the Directive, but that is not enough for 50PLUS. Before autumn comes and the windows close again, we need to know if the ventilation systems in nursing homes are in order. Is the Minister prepared to take that up as a matter of urgency and help the nursing homes with that? We must also be sure that there are sufficient protective equipment available for nursing homes, for home care and for neighbourhood nurses. Can the Minister guarantee that? And why don't we ask the visitors of a nursing home to wear a mask, as I've heard someone say before? The G.D.D.s can't handle the work anymore. The scaling up isn't gonna work. Around Amsterdam and Rotterdam people have to do their own source and contact research. What is the Minister thinking of solving this problem? One tip I can give him: maybe pay a little more. In the vacancies for source and contact staff, HBO level is requested. One must speak at least two languages, preferably two foreign languages. And the fee is less than €11 gross per hour. Minister, do you think that's a reasonable fee? 50PLUS believes that caregivers should be tested with priority. Does the Minister agree? And is he gonna go through with that to the G.D.D.'s, too? Can these tests be dealt with as a matter of urgency? We cannot miss these people in the workplace. It is good that the sewage water is now monitored via 80 points. Is our adopted motion on sewage research in nursing homes already being carried out? What is the state of play? Then the returning vacationers. There's gonna be a test street at Schiphol, but if people want to get tested... it's totally noncommittal. The urgent request for two weeks of quarantine after the return of the holiday is poorly communicated and even worse respected. Now suddenly there's a possible obligation. I am very curious to see how quickly the Minister intends to arrange this and whether that will work. I notice that there is little support for this in the Chamber. If we take account of an obligation, then the problems with employers must also be considered. Mr. Chairman. It wasn't normal on the beaches last weekend anyway. Doesn't it make perfect sense for people from the cultural sector and the catering industry to get angry when they see this? Where is the political courage to just close those beaches? Finally, Mr President, aftercare for corona patients. We see that patients still have serious symptoms for a very long time, such as heart inflammation and lung damage from scar tissue. Long-term physical therapy is often required for recovery. What about the development of the expert clinic for corona? What is the state of affairs regarding post-care for corona patients? Is the Minister already talking about this with health insurers, for example, as regards increasing the fee for physiotherapy? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	Thank you. Mr Veldman has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr. Chairman. Keep a foot and a half away. Avoid crowded places. Work at home as much as possible. Wash your hands often. If you have any complaints, stay home and get tested. Five clear basic rules, five basic rules that have contributed to significantly reducing the number of infections compared to spring. Unfortunately, in recent weeks we have seen that the number of infections is rising again, and, unfortunately, we also see the weakening of compliance with these five basic rules. I get it. I don't like complying with those rules, but it's necessary. The differences in the Netherlands are, by the way, large. Rotterdam, Amsterdam and West Brabant are the fireplaces of the Netherlands, while in regions like Friesland and Twente there are hardly any new infections. This therefore requires more local and regional action than new national measures. Non-compliance with the basic rules therefore requires enforcement. It's not funny, but it's necessary. That therefore requires a firm, consistent approach by mayors, and not a healthy reluctance, as the Mayor of Amsterdam said in March about enforcement. Mr. Chairman. Who will oversee this enforcement task? Article 7 (1) of the Public Health Act gives the Minister of Health the lead in the fight against an infectious disease. Maintain it, then. Why doesn't the Minister of Health or the Minister of the Interior intervene? Because the latter has a responsibility in that too. Mr. Chairman. It is not only incomprehensible but also irresponsible not to pass the standard time by GGD's and to scale down work, as the GGD Amsterdam and the GGD Rotterdam are doing now. In addition to complying with the basic rules, the approach to the control of the virus is to carry out full and rapid testing of complaints and to carry out thorough source and contact research. I am not saying that, as all the experts say, from the WTO to Van Dissel of RIVM. If the G.D.D. isn't up to it, the minister needs to take a broader look. Can tests be conducted by other organisations? Can contracts be concluded with, for example, the Medical Diagnostics Centres? Can we cooperate with laboratories that are not now contracted or validated by RIVM? Can other organisations be involved to also conduct source and contact research? Couldn't the Red Cross mean something in this, for example? The way things are going, I can't. This calls for immediate action by the Minister of Health. Mr. Chairman. The Dashboard of VWS monitors the developments surrounding the coronavirus in figures and warns when a second wave will arrive. However, the dashboard does not seem very useful yet. The number of infections has increased significantly again, particularly in the 20 to 40-year-old age group, while fortunately the number of hospitalisations and the ic occupation continues to show green values. Let's hope it stays that way. I ask the Minister for Medical Care if the possible scaling-up of the ic-capacity that would be needed again will succeed if it is necessary again. Mr. Chairman. The figures on the dashboard suggest that there is still little going on, while the group of scientists who have been asked to evaluate this was forced to ring the bell early. The dashboard should be better and especially more specific. Rotterdam-Rijnmond, one of the fireplaces, is a large region. Where in this region are the clusters? Which neighborhoods are the actual fireplaces? Can specific information be shared about this? That could also help the mayor there to start enforcing. More broadly, I ask the Minister to look closely at the communication. I'm gonna have to give her a little more insight. In crisis communication, there is an information need and meaning. The information needs can and will vary from target group to target group, and meaning means continuing to explain the why of the measures. On both levels a few teeth can be switched on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	I hear Mr Veldman, if I hear him correctly, arguing that he would prefer to have an insight into the spread of the virus at district level. I can imagine anything. But that is of course crucial for that that source and contact research is carried out decisively. My question to Mr Veldman is therefore what he thinks that we have been watching a press conference last week, in which we do not hear anything else about the problems there are and that less than 24 hours later, precisely in those fireplaces that Mr Veldman appoints, the region of Amsterdam, the Rotterdam-Rhinmond region, the GGD: we have too little capacity to do the source and contact research properly. How does he think that's gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	I think I said that very clearly: it is not going well and that is not good. Because we need a thorough source and contact research to fight that virus. If we don't know where it is, if we don't know about the infected person who had that contact with and so has spread it further, then it's not going well. So that the GGD hasn't done it now, including in Amsterdam-Amstelland and Rotterdam-Rijnmond, and that they have had to scale down in their source and contact research is not good. And so I ask the Minister not only to say that he is going to scale up, but also to resize that up and then to look wider than just the GGD. Because there are other organisations in the Netherlands that can also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	Of course, I am also asking Mr Veldman because this discussion in this Chamber is not new. Indeed, we have asked many times to scale that up at the GGD because we know how important that source and contact research is. And we have been promised very often that it would be in order. It just doesn't seem right. So we all agree that that is bad, but I ask Mr Veldman what he thinks we have been listening to a press conference, after we had indeed heard little from the cabinet in this area for weeks, and less than 24 hours later from the GGD that it is all out of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	As I said, I find that incomprehensible and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	Thank you. You weren't finished?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	No, I just wanted to finish, Mr. Chairman. The VVD supports the line that the cabinet has now deployed with both a few additional measures, the commitment to quarantine, and especially the space to take more specific local and regional measures. In it, the measure is aimed at the student associations a surprising one, precisely because in many cities last weeks, even months, there have been working on protocols that fit the RIVM guidelines. Why not also consider what can and cannot invest in the security region? Is the cabinet prepared to talk to the presidents of the security regions again to see if more local tailor-made work is possible and not to make any special distinction between student and study associations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	Thank you. Mr Wilders has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	I have said it before: once the VVD was a liberal party, now they are in favour of compulsory quarantine and criminalising it. I actually have a question for the VVD colleague. Then how is that maintained? Are we gonna put the cops and the boas outside the people's house? Or are we gonna check their phones? Or do they have to wear an anklet? How are you gonna check that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	I consider the announcement by the Cabinet to use the possibility already available in the Public Health Act to be sensible. Mr Wilders also simply supported that law in 2008. That law was passed unanimously by the Chamber. As the law now does, it is on an individual level. This can undoubtedly be maintained on an individual level. Is that easy? No, that won't be easy. Does that ask a thing or two? Yeah, that's a lot to ask. Do I like it? Because that's what you're doing to me as a liberal. No, I'd rather not do this. But we have that law, we have that possibility. We see the number of infections increasing, we also see that there are people who do not comply with that quarantine, and then I am also liberal enough to say: the freedom of one ends where it affects the freedom of the other. My freedom, your freedom will be compromised if infected people withdraw from the quarantine, which is now voluntarily requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	It requires, of course, the use of boas and policemen, who have to control people; people who are often not even infected and often not at all ill. That's out of proportion. Have you looked outside this summer, I ask the colleague of the VVD. On beaches and lakes, people are shot and stabbed. There's total no-no-no-no-no-nothing. Our women are being harassed on those beaches by Moroccans and Turks, and I know where they all come from. In Scheveningen, you don't have to show your face at night. If you don't get gas lubricated, as a woman, you're gonna get nailed or robbed of your wallet. That's where the police have to go. But then there's a VVD guy who says, "No, we don't." You better do that, we're giving up the safety of the beaches of our country and we're gonna put cops and boas in front of people who aren't even sick. I mean, it's not unfriendly, but you're not exactly in your right mind when you make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	Mr Wilders does this often: making a measure a caricature. We have a lot of measures in the Netherlands that involve an obligation to do something, for example wearing a seatbelt in the car. Does this mean we're gonna send a police officer after every car to see if anyone's wearing a seatbelt? No, of course we don't do it that way. But it is true that there is still an obligation to wear a seat belt, and rightly so, because we have that obligation. If you have an obligation, you have to comply with it. That is why my appeal is: if we have rules, they must be enforced. The same applies to these rules. We have the possibility in the Public Health Act to do something about it with all kinds of safeguards, where people deliberately withdraw from the quarantine. And yes, you have to stick to that, too. Well, that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	I have just heard Mr Veldman say in an interrupting debate with Mrs Marijnissen that this cabinet is irresponsible in terms of the capacity of the source and contact research. It's actually the first time I've heard the VVD make a firm judgment on this policy. I agree. I think a number of colleagues have said the same. Well, he says "and I have listened carefully." "I do not think the minister should just ask, the minister should also organize it." What does he want to hear from the Minister today, so he can take that irresponsible path?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	I would not just like the Minister to mention that it is being worked on and that it is being scaled up, as he has done a number of times. I want the Minister to guarantee that he will take care of it, not only by looking at the GGD, but wider in the network we have in the Netherlands. That's why I just mentioned the first-line diagnostic centers. They have a fine-meshed network all over the Netherlands, including laboratory capacity and including people who work there. Why aren't there contracts with them in all regions of the Netherlands? Why isn't there a partnership? I hear from these circles that there isn't contact everywhere. I find that weird when we see the G.D.D. running against borders. I don't blame the G.D.D. for running against borders. Testing is not a core business of the GDD. By the way, source and contact research does. So I say: I find it incomprehensible and irresponsible that this is not right now. That's gotta be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	You're asking another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	It goes a little further, in the sense that the Minister has said: any Dutchman who wants to be tested can be tested. That's just not gonna happen. It is incomprehensible and irresponsible and for that reason I have at least prepared a motion asking for an emergency plan to be able to do so within 48 hours. Does Mr Veldman support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	I think asking for an emergency plan is very broad. My question to the Minister is very specific to use what we have in the Netherlands as well, where I see it now, and from the contacts I have with them, that this is not happening. We can ask for an emergency plan every day, of course: we ask for an emergency plan. But it's about getting concrete. It's about making sure we actually settle it with each other and not just saying that the GGD is going to do more, hire more people or train more people. No, the thing that's common today, use it. That is my appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	It's your seventh question, I'll tell you, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'll be on my way by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	Yeah, that's fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	But then I think we're in agreement. Whatever you call it, I don't care. That's what Mr Veldman says. In fact, Mr Veldman says the same thing as me: be creative, look wider and not just limit yourself to tasks that they actually already have. See if you can organize something with regions. See if you can get other agencies to help. But the fact is that it needs to be organized, and that in the short term. Because apparently the commitment as stated in the letter, namely: I have asked the GGD to organize it, is simply not enough. I can see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	I agree with Mr Azarkan. That's why I just named it. It is incomprehensible and irresponsible, because it should have just been arranged. We are in complete agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	I fully agree with the VVD that not only the source and contact research, but also the testing should be better organised. I indicated that even in Friesland people sometimes have to wait 48 hours. That's indigestible. The Minister has indicated that he also wants to use the Defense Department to organise it further. The CDA thinks that this is a good idea, because the Defense Department has shown, even in intensive care, that it has a lot of executive power. I would like to hear a response from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	I think it is an understandable appeal and also a very nice one, because we ask for help very often when things are difficult in the country. That only indicates the trust and confidence we have in this beautiful organization. At the same time, I note that the Defense Department has about 9,000 vacancies. So before we look at Defense again, I suggest we first look at what we have in this field, such as the fine-meshed network in the Netherlands of prick services and old general practitioners laboratories. Let's just use what we have before we ask another organization for deployment. I'm not against it, because I have great faith in the Defense Department, but I note that even the Defense Department sometimes finds it difficult, given the vacancies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	Let's see with the VVD that we have to look at the deployment of all the other test options. As a result, the GGD can already be relieved. We've been talking about the organization at the GGD for months now. We see every time it goes down somewhere, and I suggest that that part of the Defense Department is deployed, with the organizing capability that Defense has.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	We agree on that. If that's what we need to do, we need to do it. But my call is to look first at what can already be used and is already ready, you could almost say. However, there is no or insufficient cooperation between these organisations and the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	No source and contact studies are carried out in 30% of cases. The GGD has been scaled down in the regions of Amsterdam and Rotterdam, and Mr Veldman rightly calls that irresponsible. The reaction is that we are going to ask for more of the GGD, namely to carry out the quarantine obligation. It can already be read in the media that the GGD doesn't have it overnight and that in the next few weeks it will require capacity and commitment to set it up in a good way. Such a quarantine obligation also requires each time from the Chairman of the Security Region, the Public Prosecutor and the judge the capacity to actually impose that obligation. Mr Veldman said, like liberals, that the freedom of one ends where the freedom of the other begins. That is quite right. But as a liberal, you must always ask whether a measure imposed by the government is proportionate or whether there are other resources in the toolbox that can be used. That is why my question to Mr Veldman: does he think that the Minister has already done enough to lower the thresholds for source and contact research and to cooperate in testing and quarantine? Or are we already on the verge of reaching for a heavy substance such as quarantine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	I fully agree with Mr Jetten that we must do everything you can under normal circumstances, without pressure and compulsion. It would also be a good thing for Mr Jetten to say with me and with the cabinet that we are going to use the possibilities provided for in the Public Health Act as well as the quarantine obligation here where necessary. If someone knowingly goes out while they're infected and lights others, I think mayors should use the opportunity they have. And yes, those are not easy trajectories. It is right that this is not easy. As mayor, you can't just do that with a pewter, but you can. I think it is wise, given the increase in the number of infections and the number of people who seem to be avoiding the quarantine request, to use the legal possibility that we have here, which we have unanimously adopted in 2008.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	That law has indeed been adopted unanimously, but, as far as I know, this point has never been applied. So the question is: is this the time to do so? To my mind, this is to a large extent a drop on a glowing record, as if there are now thousands of people in the Netherlands who consciously evade that source and contact research. No, that's not the case. The case is that the GGD does not manage to carry out source and contact research on everyone. People have to wait too long for tests. If you come back from a risk area, you can't go straight to a test street, as is the case in other countries. So we just don't have the place in order. Then we're gonna grab at the worst of it. I still think this is a lightning rod, like this is the holy grail to contain the spread of the coronavirus. This while we all know that it stands or falls with good testing and good source and contact research. We don't have to go straight to the worst of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	I think this corona crisis has taught us by now that there are no sacred gravels. If there were a sacred grail, I can imagine that this is the five feet. I agree with Mr Jetten that we must also do what we can and need to do. I agree with him that the source and contact research should just be in order. That is why I am critical of the Minister for Health and my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I would like to say a few words about it. If this is to be done outside the GGD, this must also be done outside the GGD with other partners who can work together in it. But this doesn't rule out the need to use the resources you have. Even if you have this in order, there's no way to rule out the quarantine request. You'll have to stick to that. If you have rules, you have to enforce them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	Mr Veldman referred back to the question of quarantine: there is a legal possibility that everyone has said yes to. I think the new thing we are talking about today is that the cabinet says: we are coming with a clue. The Minister of Health wants to give a clue on this point. My question is: what, in Mr Veldman's view, is the interpretation of that indication? Why is this indication necessary in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	I read the cabinet letter in such a way that there will be a clue to mayors to use the opportunity they have. It states what is necessary to use that possibility. It's asking a lot of questions. It's not just one signature from the mayor, and it's settled. It is right that this is surrounded by guarantees. In addition, I read that the cabinet is going to investigate how we can legally manage this well with each other, precisely because it could involve larger groups. I appreciate that. I agree with you when you say that we should not deal with this too lightly. It does ask a lot of questions, doesn't it? It's quite a far-reaching measure. However, I think it is understandable that the measure should be applied if this is necessary. That's how I read the clue. I think this is understandable, because the possibility is there and not because I want it to be used. But that's the way it goes with rules: if you have a rule, you have to apply it and maintain it, otherwise you wouldn't have to make the rule just as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u87	That sounds a little too easy to me. If the clue were only "use the authority there is, as soon as there is reason" you would give a lot of clues. No, apparently you want more to happen than you do now. It must be dealt with more in a more compelling way. Isn't this putting the horse behind the cart? You can see that there is a lot of discussion about all kinds of legal measures and about legislation that is still in the pipeline. You say here: you first have to make much more use of the possibilities; especially in relation to people who are not infected themselves and whose question is whether they have actually gotten too close. Shouldn't you use the other possibilities a lot more before you come back with a sharper clue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u88	I agree with Mr Van der Staaij. We need to take advantage of all the opportunities we have. That means doing good source and contact research and testing quickly. I repeat that, where possible, testing should be carried out more quickly than is currently the case, so that the 14-day quarantine period can be reduced. Mr Van Dissel also appointed this during the technical briefing yesterday. But this is without prejudice to the fact that you must also dare to apply other measures if this is necessary. I can very well imagine that there are mayors in the country who think to themselves "we have never done so" and who may be a little reluctant to do so. Maybe they're like, "It's a big deal." It is a type of a-infectious disease, so the responsibility lies with the Minister of Health. I can imagine that the Minister of Health would say: I give an indication that if people knowingly and knowingly evade the quarantine application, what it is now, or that "obligatory"...........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u89	I want to see if it's not all a bit closer to each other than it seems right now. I think there's a conversation going on. I think there are three categories: people who come back from orange territory, people who, from contact research, show that they have had contact with someone with corona and people who have tested positive for corona. The latter category is mentioned by the colleague of the VVD. Based on the Public Health Act, we can force those people to stay at home in quarantine and hold a sanction above their heads. I'd like to say quite frankly here, and I think a lot of people share that, if you're tested positive for corona and not quarantined, you're antisocial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u90	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u91	But what the discussion focuses on is that yesterday the Minister said that all the people who emerge from the contact investigation should be quarantined preventively and that, if you do not, there is a penalty. To be honest, I have great doubts about that. The source and contact research is not yet in order. We know that this 14-day period is much shorter in many countries. In other words: other steps should be taken. The law must also be adapted to that. I think we're talking past each other. We might as well agree when it comes to people who are tested positive. But I hope that the colleague of the VVD is also critical of the fact that anyone who comes from the contact investigation will have to be quarantined, subject to penalty of a fine? I believe that this is unfocused and makes it even less easy for people to pass on their contacts. That doesn't make it effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u92	I think Mr Klaver and I are largely in agreement. I've just been talking about people who deliberately evade the quarantine, while it's proven they've been infected. That's what it's all about. That's how I read the Minister's letter. Next, the Minister would like to see if it could be used more widely. He's going to investigate that further. He himself says in his letter that this may also require more legal instruments as a guarantee. Well, if that is the case, bring it to the Chamber and then we, as VVD, will again look critically at whether we find it appropriate and whether it fits in the line that we want to live in freedom with each other, but that freedom is limited by possibly antisocial behavior, as you yourself call it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u93	Yeah, but a little more specific. I do not want the Ministry, which is already very busy, to start doing things that will not be able to count on support here. I have heard the Minister say: I am going to work on legislation that will ensure that we are obliged to put people who emerge from the contact investigation in quarantine. I do not think that is appropriate at the moment in time. I do not want to rule it out forever. If the Minister comes up with that, he will not be able to count on our support, because we need to take all these other steps first; to get the contact research in order, to get the information better and so on. It could be a long time before this might show up. There is nothing we can rule out, but I want to be very clear to the cabinet: we are not going to do that. It's not proportional right now. It makes it easier for people to pass on their contacts, while lowering the threshold, so that people are open and honest about everyone they've seen. We need to get this in everyone's head. In that sense, I really agreed with the Prime Minister last week: we should feel jointly responsible and jointly responsible for the health of the Netherlands and appeal to people. And if there is a few antisocial, we tackle it, but the rest of the Netherlands has the best interests with all its fellow countrymen. We must appeal to them on their responsibility and not punish them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u94	I agree with Mr Klaver. The nice thing is that, if you look at the map of the Netherlands with the number of infections, there are no or hardly any infections in large parts of the Netherlands. That means that in all those parts people just follow those five basic rules, because there are no infections. That's good, and that's good. I'm proud of those people for sticking to those rules. Unfortunately, however, we see that there are also people who ignore those rules and that there are infections after all. Unfortunately, others suffer from that again. If you ignore the rules that we're asking for voluntarily, it's not very social.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u95	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u96	Thank you, Mr President. I think this is the first debate we have with the new Minister for Medical Care. I therefore wish her every success and wisdom from here on in this difficult dossier. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, we were able to meet Linda through social media, just 50, who has metastatic cancer. And with David, 20 years old, who was born with brain damage and which is practical and slightly intellectually limited. Or with Jan and Hermien, 91 and 92 years old, who live in a nursing home but still enjoy the children, the grandchildren and each other. I'm sure we all know people in our own environment who belong to a risk group. They're not dry wood, but they're our loved ones; people we love and we absolutely don't want to miss. Moreover, we now know that healthy people can also suffer very bad consequences from infection. Therefore, please, let us all respect the measures. Not only for ourselves, but also for someone else. Don't let this virus divide us, but let it unite us. Today, I would like to draw particular attention to people with disabilities or a condition. They cannot participate in society because they simply cannot comply with the rules, or because they are afraid of infection. For them it was not a summer in which they could enjoy some more freedoms, which the Prime Minister so nicely announced. A lot of these people have been home since March. I therefore ask the cabinet how it is going to ensure that these people can participate in society. Can specific groups have medical mouth masks to protect themselves? Mr. Chairman. The virus blew up way earlier than expected. In a number of places, the GGDs are no longer able to perform the source and contact research adequately. The source of more and more infections is unknown. People also wait far too long to test for complaints and the quarantine is not always observed. How's the Cabinet gonna handle this? The minister came late last night with a letter on quarantine obligations. How can we help good people with this? Shouldn't that be the first question? Does the government, for example, want to support people in quarantine through municipalities or local organisations if this is financially or practically difficult? And how does the organization get in order? When will there be enough people to carry out the source and contact research? Do we use the same standard as Germany, with 1 fte out of 4,000 residents? All questions that I believe are crucial, because they ultimately determine whether we can control and control the virus. Mr. Chairman. I have a few short questions. Student time is an important social phase in the lives of many young people. The Christian Union wants the measures for student associations to be aligned with those for sports and study associations. We believe that this is also possible, because GGDs, security regions, municipalities and universities have prepared themselves well for this. Is that how the Cabinet sees it? At Schiphol Airport, people are urged to be tested and quarantined when they come from a risk area. It's a good thing that's getting less non-committal. All travellers from at-risk areas should be contacted with a compelling call for testing and quarantine. But when will it be? What surprises me is that thousands of people appear to come to our country from high-risk areas every day. How is that possible? Do we have both the car and the flight and train passengers in our sights? What is the Cabinet going to do about ventilation systems in schools, nursing homes, catering, gyms, etc.? There has been some concern as to whether children can go to school. Especially if it gets too cold to open windows and doors in the autumn, ventilation systems must be in order. What kind of support do schools get? And are the ventilation systems in airplanes really in order? Aerogenic distribution, according to RIVM, will play a limited role in the spread of the virus. Is there any additional research on this? This remains a point of discussion in the media and in society. I understand those questions. Mr. Chairman. What coordination is taking place in the border regions? People visiting family in Zeeland or working in Zeeland from Belgium must be quarantined for two weeks. If there's any customization here, I'll ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dissel said yesterday: an infectious disease is behavior. Maybe I can put it into words with the words of Jan Hoek, the 94-year-old Rotterdammer: 'I would like to say to everyone: take it easy.' From the point of view of subsidiarity, the Christian Union wants to lay down responsibility in society. This requires something from society: facing the risks, thinking more about each other and the future. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the urgency of this message may be central to the press conferences of this cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u97	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u98	Madam President. Unfortunately, the virus didn't leave with the holiday sun. It's gonna blow up again and it's gonna cause concern. It is therefore a good thing that we are talking about it again here today. Key words, also at this stage of the crisis, are the SGP Group: sobriety and vigilance. Sobriety means facing facts, not overestimating them and not underestimating them. But that includes being alert. The virus doesn't just go out. We have to bear in mind that it can rise again and again. Mr. Chairman. The first point I want to make today is the importance of clear communication. It is good that another press conference was held recently. The survival of the virus also underlines the importance of a good legal basis for measures to control the virus. A bill has been tabled this summer, and there is a great deal of uncertainty. What does it say and what doesn't say? I would like to ask the cabinet to continue to explain this very actively and to try to remove any misunderstandings about it. Of course, we will have a debate on this later in this Chamber. The SGP will also explicitly test for sufficient legal and democratic safeguards. Brightness in communication is also needed in relation to the care workers who are wondering whether enough is being done to prevent the virus from re-emerging. With regard to them, too, I would like to make a strong plea for this. Mr. Chairman. A second point I want to make is to do customization. This does justice to the principle that we should not restrict freedoms beyond what is necessary, especially if they intervene deeply in the private sphere. This is also due to the fact that the virus does not flare up to the same extent throughout the country. I am aware that it has been said on many occasions, also by my group, and that customisation also means that you accept that the same rules do not always apply everywhere and that it is not always clear what is going on now. We cannot talk on the one hand about customisation and on the other hand say that it is difficult that there are different rules. One can't do without the other. That is why we support the line to look more closely at what is needed in certain areas other than in other parts of the country, where the spread of the virus is much less important. I also agree with the point that has been made about student associations. Very general national lines are now being drawn. Shouldn't there also be more room for local customization? And can the lines for study and sports associations not be extended further? Mr. Chairman. Testing and tracing is a cornerstone of policy. Unfortunately, the willingness to test, to cooperate in source and contact research, or to go into quarantine, sometimes leaves something to be desired, although it is an important pillar of policy. But also for the SGP Group, the question is what is now being done independently of legal coercive measures to increase acceptance. Is the risk of the quarantine obligation announced yesterday that this will further reduce the support for testing? A statutory quarantine obligation for people only on the basis of possible close contact with people who have been found to be infected is a far-reaching measure. Also, what the SGP Group is going to do at this stage is too far to use it further with a clue. I also feel at home with what Mr Klaver said about this. It's either really something else or it's people who are infected themselves. I note that yesterday's letter is about the broader group of people. As far as the SGP Group is concerned, that too is really going too far. Mr. Chairman. The speed of the test results is also crucial. Results are sometimes too long to wait for them. When does the Minister expect this to be in order everywhere? School's about to start again. There is uncertainty about ventilation requirements in schools, indoor spaces. My question is the following, also because you hear from the field of education that there is a need for clarity. Is it possible to obtain more clarity through a hand-out, through a risk assessment or in any way? They need schools. They need schools. And who's gonna pay for the costs if suddenly additional ventilation measures are needed in what older buildings? Very practical. Finally, Mr President. The sobriety also requires that we do not have overstretched expectations of a perfect vaccine that eliminates all problems like snow for the sun. Whether a high-quality and effective vaccine will actually be available in the short term is only a question. That is why I am also in line with Mr Wilders: do not put all the cards on a vaccine as a solution, but also look explicitly at treatment methods, medicines, virus inhibitors, even if there may not be enough money to invest in them now. Let even more effort be made to do so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u99	Thank you. Mr Azarkan has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mr. Chairman. With a huge effort, as a society, we have managed to control the corona virus. We've changed our behavior massively during the intelligent lockdown. It was uncomfortable for many, it was unreal, the freedoms were very restricted. It happened in a way that many had never experienced before, but in the end it succeeded in reducing the spread of the virus. An even greater disaster has been averted. Mr. Chairman. The virus's back, and it's back on the march. My question to the cabinet is: is this actually foreseen? Has this been taken into account? Was this scenario worked out, too? What we need to do now is make sure it doesn't get any worse. We must ensure that the Netherlands does not lock. Not only for ourselves, but also for the vulnerable, for our elderly and for entrepreneurs who are simply not going to be able to do so. That is why we must abide by the basic agreements. For DENK, better communication is crucial. The cabinet has recently communicated passively, contradictoryly and unclearly. We saw a cabinet that, after weeks of intelligent lockdown, quickly opened up the place, drastically screwed back communication and was no longer visible. Hasn't that actually brought some of the misery to the cabinet? The communication is already indicated by others............................................................................................................................................................................................................. The quarantine was an advice, not mandatory, but it should be. And that quarantine was announced by the minister last night as a "mandatory." That too is simply an unclear term, because what is the difference between an opinion, something which is mandatory and something which is more 'compulsory'? Totally unclear. Why throw that idea over the fence last night? Mr. Chairman. When I read the letter, I conclude that the cabinet has a great deal of work to do on it. My question then is whether scenarios will only be considered when there is a lot of pressure, if it is actually a little too late. For the prosecution, the judiciary, but also the GGD still has to be addressed. How can the GGD maintain that mandatory quarantine, if there isn't even enough capacity to test, something they should actually do? Mr. Chairman. Isn't the procedure a wash nose, too? After all, everything has to pass the judge first. This leads to a great deal of incomprehension and confusion. That's in the tradition of the corona app, which became mandatory, then not, then it had to be tested, then it was called back, then it didn't have a good purpose description, in short: confusion. The same applies to the way in which the emergency law has been communicated. It should have started on 1 July, but was adapted again and will be dealt with later. It's the same MO all the time. We see a lot of tough language. We see ideas that are launched without being properly selected and then society is left in unclearness. DENK wants this cabinet to increase communication and create clarity. Better information campaigns aimed at target groups. And chairman, as before, a weekly press conference and a briefing to bring the urgency to the attention of the Netherlands. Is the government willing to do that? I'm thinking of a "corona college" or whatever colleagues call it. It must be much more visible that information is transferred to society, because there are too many uncertainties. The Achilles heel of the corona policy is the lack of capacity at the GGD. Minister De Jonge called in the media and in the Chamber that capacity was in order. He has promised this many times here, but now it appears that in 30% of the cases no source and contact research can be carried out. How much is the Minister's word still worth? And then I have to read in the letter that the source and contact research is now being conducted risk-oriented. That's a bit of a euphemism for "we don't have enough people for it, so we're going to take a risk inventory." That's just unclear language. And how is it that we have to read in the letter that due to the lower level of contamination in recent months insufficient capacity has been attracted? Mr. Chairman. DENK wants a firm commitment from this minister and from the cabinet. We ask that within two days there is a plan that guarantees that all Dutch people who need to be tested are also just tested. That is actually the commitment he has made before in this Chamber. Finally, Mr President. The impact of corona on the economy is becoming more and more palpable for many Dutch people. Their jobs and their income are under pressure. Can the government say anything about the plans to hunt the economy? Is there any clarity about the secondary effects, about the housing market, poverty, trade? Mr. Chairman. In society, there is a lot of uncertainty about the vaccine, about the app I get daily emails about the vaccine and about the emergency law. People are scared. People feel there's information they don't have. Finally, therefore, I think that only clear communication, preferably weekly, will help to remove some of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u101	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u102	Mr. Chairman. There's only a few people left in intensive care. That's terrible for these people, but not statistically significant. We see that the number of positive PCR tests is increasing, now that we've started testing more. It is, however, going down in percentage terms. Only 0.82% were tested positive in July. Almost no one ends up in intensive care anymore. But a PCR test doesn't show clinical corona contamination at all. My first question is: why do we call the positive PCR tests just corona infections, when we know that this is clinically incorrect? What is the consequence of this? Statistically speaking, the corona crisis is over. Insofar as there is still a cultural, social and economic crisis, this is due to the measures taken by the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Good results are achieved with hydroxychloroquine in other countries, when administered at an early stage in combination with zinc and azithromycin. Why didn't this minister come back to his earlier rejection of this cheap drug? Mr. Chairman. Corona is a disease that young people rarely suffer from. Nevertheless, this cabinet chooses to deprive young people of all kinds of freedoms, without a solid foundation. When you're a student, you can go to soccer practice together in a car. You can take a shower together. You can kiss together. You can sit in a bar. But you don't get physical education. When you're 18 years old and you're in high school, you can all sit in a poorly ventilated room. But if you're 18 years old and you're going to study, you can get acquainted with a rowing association or a study association, but not with a social association, not even with a strict protocol. How can you explain this inconsistent measure? How many coronados does this distinction matter now? I am considering a motion on this point. In fact, I'm just gonna file a motion. I am counting on the support of Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij, who have already spoken warmly about this group. We let Black Lives Matter demonstrate with 15,000 people at the same time on Dam Square and religious celebrations may continue undisturbed. But oh woe to you if you want to get acquainted with a social club as a student. Then you'll have to deal with the hard hand of this inconsistent government. Mr President, my final question. If we are to discriminate at an age, should we not ask older people and vulnerable people to voluntarily distance themselves so that young people can simply live their normal lives? Or, even better, why don't we just put that arbitrary line at 25 years? At least it doesn't bother students anymore. Finally, Mr President. In a free society, there can be no compulsory preventive quarantine. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you. Mrs Van Esch is now speaking on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u104	Mr. Chairman. We are here today to talk about the rapid increase in contagion rates among the population. As far as my group is concerned, it is a worrying development. A dwindling government did not intervene enough, and that is not fair to the vulnerable in our society. First of all, I would like to ask a number of questions about education and then about aviation and source and contact research. I shall end with the problems in the mink-farming and slaughterhouses, which pose a vital threat to public health. The strict message to young people to keep their distance is difficult to reconcile with cottage-filled classrooms. Teachers, parents and students are rightly concerned. Can parents keep their child at home if they fear that the ventilation system at school is inadequate or will it be maintained from 1 September? I'd like a response. The exceptional position of aviation has significantly undermined the basis for the basic rules. 1.5 metres never existed in aircraft and thousands of people come from risk areas every week. They weren't tested for a long time and weren't checked to see if they were going into quarantine. Finally, there will be a test street at Schiphol Airport and at other airports. When will that actually come into effect and why hasn't it been done much earlier? Here too we would like a reaction. Mr. Chairman. The scaling up of the source and contact research has missed every government direction. As a result, a panic is now being taken to a heavy control tool, that mandatory quarantine. A lot of people here have been talking about it. A lightning rod to mask the failure of the rampage plan for the GGDs. We also saw this with the Corona app and the Covid Act: the basis is not in order and then there will be far-reaching measures, without any real justification why they are suddenly needed. Is the Minister prepared to admit that his promises regarding the source and contact research have not been fulfilled? How is he going to speed up the scaling-up that has already been promised? Mr. Chairman. In three days' time, the deadline of the Outbreak Management Team-Zonosen for mink farms will expire. If contamination is added in mid-August, all remaining mink in the Netherlands must be killed as a precaution according to this OMT-Z. On the weekends, there were two new infection sites. They've joined us. Can the Minister of VWS indicate when he will take a decision on this matter with the Minister of LNV? Can the Minister also explain whether the increasing number of infections in the Netherlands gives rise to the decision to reconsider a voluntary stopper scheme in accordance with this opinion of the OMT-Z? There's an approved motion from the Party for Animals asking for early closure. What is this cabinet waiting for? Why do mink breeders receive preferential treatment when there are major risks to public health? I'd like a response. Last week we heard that sick workers from a slaughterhouse were forced to fill in false health statements and that only temporary measures were taken when inspections were announced. Once the inspection is gone, the splash screens will be cleaned up again and there will no longer be a 1.5 meter distance. How is this possible, I ask the Minister. How can hotels, museums and amusement parks be closed for 14 days if contamination is detected, but this does not apply, for example, to slaughterhouses? Are they excluded from this arrangement? Are they here? How is it that it still goes this way in slaughterhouses, if we know that there are large sources of contamination here and they are likely to come again? We know that dealing with animals is the only cause of the current pandemic and that many new infectious diseases threaten our public health. So we will have to review our handling of animals and we will have to review our travel behaviour, and that is precisely where the government is not taking the lead. Even in times of need, governance is apparently not forward-looking, but forward-sliding. When can we at last expect the profound changes that are needed to ensure that there is not another pandemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u105	Thank you. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands is not yet prepared for a second wave. The number of infections is dangerous. The GGD has not implemented its own draft plan for the source and contact research. In the fireplaces, the G.D.D. can't handle it already. At the same time, the willingness to comply with the measures seems to decline among the population. I say "appears," because we do not know anything about compliance with the quarantine measure, for example. There are no data why people are less willing or unable to comply. There's no record of how many people that would be. But an extreme quarantine obligation is announced. Shouldn't we first look at what problem exactly we're looking for a solution to? Because only then will you know if the solution really solves the problem. Mr. Chairman. This morning we were briefed by the Red Team, to which many experts and scientists from different disciplines are attached. They have sent a letter to the cabinet with concerns and recommendations. Has that been responded to by now? And what will the cabinet do with the recommendations of these experts? Because we have to fight the coronavirus from the enforcement process to the hand-out process, as they put it so nicely. People's trust must be restored. Ask why people want or can keep less to the measures. Give perspective and give handles to live better. How's the Cabinet gonna do that? Help people through this. How is the cabinet finally going to communicate openly and clearly? This has already been said by previous speakers. Is the Cabinet advised on risk communication, on how to include the population in your decisions? There is a great deal of uncertainty about the measures, because the cabinet is also totally inconsistent. Why should young people be allowed to go to school in overcrowded classes without a mouth cap, but should they wear a mouth cap in public transport on their way to school? We know by now that young people aged 15 and over are contributing to the spread of the virus. Remove this inconsistency from the measures, because people increasingly understand why certain measures are needed. That's how you get compliance problems. Mr. Chairman. Why are the measures not aligned with neighbouring countries? Isn't that completely illogical? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the care heroes. They must be given a better reward and more appreciation in structural terms. What about the preparations to pay out the health bonus for the care heroes, the hands on the bed, the cleaners of the ic, generous and net as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u107	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u108	And is there any solution for thezzp'ers yet? This has to be done as soon as possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u109	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u110	...especially before we ask them to run double shifts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u111	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u112	Mr. Chairman. Our freedom: that is what it should be about today. Because the freedom of the bona fide citizen is under serious pressure. When the so-called "intelligent lockdown" was introduced on 23 March, we were told that the measures were necessary to prevent the care system from overloading. Unfortunately, the measures have not been able to prevent the care system from overloading, that regular care has virtually stopped and that our care personnel have been forced to work with corona patients without suitable protective equipment. If only the lockdown had been introduced a week earlier, a lot of trouble would have been avoided. When the corona crisis was under control, hospitals became less crowded and stocks of protection and test material were in order again, then the Forum for Democracy was the first to advocate gradually relaxing the lockdown and boosting our economy. But to our great concern, the government appears to have chosen a completely different course. Suddenly, there had to be a one-and-a-half-metre society. Suddenly we should get used to the new morals. In the words of De Jonge, freedom-limiting measures should now take until there is a vaccine, while it is still very much the question whether and, if so, when a safe vaccine is available, as far as we are concerned, in no way should it be compulsory. Of course, we should not become lax and prevent our care system from being overloaded again at some point, but fortunately there is no reason to suspect that this is happening again at the moment. At the same time, we must dare to accept that viruses will always exist. Where there's life, there's viruses. We have an immune system for a reason. The fact that viruses can kill people is also a sad fact inherent in life. The aim of the measures must therefore always be limited in order to continue to protect our healthcare system. Of course, we are much better off than in mid-March. We've got our supplies back in order and we've learned a lot more about the spread of the virus. Thus, it becomes increasingly clear that the virus does not or at least does not only spread through the so-called large drops that reach up to 1.5 meters. The virus would also, perhaps even mostly, spread through microdrops, aerosols, which extend far beyond 1.5 meters and in poorly ventilated spaces continue to float for tens of minutes. Why isn't this distribution route being properly investigated? Why wasn't Peter de Man from the GGD allowed to investigate the ventilation systems and has RIVM even tried to frustrate and keep under control? See the Volkskrant yesterday. This may have to do with the fact that, if it turns out that not the large drops but aerosols play a decisive role, government policy should be re-examined. In that case, we would not have a one-and-a-half meter requirement in the outdoors, but would advise people to avoid busy, poorly ventilated spaces. Then we'd go back and see if the classrooms, which next week are packed, were properly ventilated. Will the Minister finally carry out a thorough study of the new insights into the spread of the virus and its significance for the effectiveness of the measures? The Dutch are entitled to the truth and should not remain in the dark on this point. We must not be the victims, not even the government, of a prestige struggle that threatens to develop between virologists. The government should take control and say, "Come here. What about those big drops? How can we find out for sure?" The main concern of FvD is the illegal restriction of fundamental rights. The freedom of demonstration has become a sham when opposition demonstrations on the conveyor belt are banned to prevent the spread of the virus, while worldwide demonstrations in recent months have confirmed that there is hardly any risk of infection in the outdoors. The municipalities of Amsterdam and Rotterdam have introduced an outdoor cap. All state lawyers agree that this is contrary to the Constitution, but at least the Mayor of Rotterdam does not care at all, consciously not. Last night, the Minister launched the idea of house arresting healthy people who may have been near an infected person for 14 days. Like it's nothing. We see a worrying gliding scale. It is precisely in a time of crisis that it is important for the public authorities to assess in a secure manner whether measures are lawful and proportionate. This does not seem to be the case at all. The desire for compulsion reigns. The Constitution is put aside. Where is the Home Secretary to protect our fundamental rights? And why are unconstitutional decisions by mayors not destroyed? In short, no emergency law, no house arrest for healthy people, no obligation to wear working masks. That obligation, which explicitly mentions "unworking," is, in any case, an obligation. Instead, thorough research into aerosols and ventilation. Instead of inappropriate regulation, it is now time for common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u113	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'll suspend the meeting for one hour and then the cabinet will answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u114	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u115	Thank you, Mr President. I shall first say a few words about how we divided it up, then I shall make a few preliminary remarks and then I shall try to answer the questions that have come to my attention during the distribution. First, I'm gonna say something about the distribution. I propose that the Minister of Health be given the floor after me. He will discuss, among other things, quarantine measures, tests and source and contact research. He will also involve Bonaire, on which D66 asked a specific question. He will also talk about ventilation, also in relation to the start-up of education. He also addressed some questions about the lessons learned and the question about people with disabilities. The Minister for Medical Care will discuss a number of issues, including personal protective equipment, hospital capacity, in particular ic capacity, and salaries in healthcare. I will then deal with the other issues. I'd like to start with a single introductory word. I think I can echo what has already been said by many of the Members of Parliament, namely that meeting here during the recess means that we do not have a carefree summer. Of course, we had hoped that the numbers would remain lower, but that is not the case. There's really a rise in the virus going on. This is not the case everywhere in the Netherlands, but the pace is such that it is really disturbing. Many of you have also pointed out that I am echoing the fact that the number of hospital admissions, especially in intensive care, is not yet rising very rapidly. And, as many of you have noticed, we have more visibility on the virus than in March. But having said this, I note at the same time, and many have said this here too, that we also know how fast it can go. We are already dealing with an estimated number of infected persons of about 32,000. That's really much more than when we were at the beginning of the Chamber recess. That is why it is so important that we all hold on to the profits we have achieved in the period March, April and May. Mr. Chairman. Nobody wants a second lockdown. You don't have to. But then we will all have to go back to the discipline at the point of the basic rules, which have often been repeated today, including the 1.5 metres, avoiding crowds, washing hands and testing very important for complaints and then staying at home while that test is still going on. We can see that young people in particular find that complicated. I'll say a little more about that in a minute. Questions have been asked about the students in particular. In other words, I would like to say that in conclusion in this brief introductory word, and I cannot stress that enough... the prevention of a second lockdown is really a joint responsibility of all of us. That is not a matter for society alone. Of course not. It is a matter for the directors, with the cabinet first, but also a matter for society as a whole. Because, and Jaap van Dissel stressed that again yesterday in his briefing to the Chamber, you can see the enormous effects it has had that we have kept to the 1.5 meters all these months, that we have not shook hands et cetera, et cetera, and with that you also see how important it is to hold onto them. That virus didn't exist nicely, so we know, if we stick to those general basic rules. I think today's debate is about how we can strengthen that again and how we deal with outbreaks that are taking place. I see some MPs are trying to interrupt, Mr. Chairman. But if you will allow me to begin with these interruptions, I am thinking of general policy, and in particular of Mr Wilders' question and at least of Mr Klaver's which we are working towards, a vaccine or a test society and so on. That's the question I'd like to start with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u116	I am looking at the number of interruptions, but also at the rest of the answers to the questions. Is it convenient to interrupt now? It's up to you to determine that or at first... I don't know to what extent the next subject... yet an interruption first? That's what I thought. Well, let's do that. Mr Asscher, then Mr Wilders and then Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u117	The question I have to the Prime Minister is exactly what has happened since Thursday night. Then the Prime Minister said: I do not come up with additional obligations, I do not believe in them, I am not a dictator, we cannot maintain them. What information has been given since Thursday evening, what expert advice has been given since Thursday evening, what OMT statement has been made since Thursday evening, which has led the Prime Minister to announce a major change of course last night? He spoke of a mandatory quarantine for all close contacts of people who are infected. That happened within four days of that verdict on Thursday. It is very strange not to explain that at a press conference. What exactly happened?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr. Chairman. Perhaps some more information about the press conference first, because we have, of course, announced measures. Firstly, measures to strengthen the position of the mayors and the presidents of the security regions, for example in the field of paid football, mouth caps and other matters. Secondly, national measures concerning the catering industry and students. Apart from the general message that we must all stick to the agreements, additional measures have been taken. It is always a mix, a mix of the responsibility we all have and the responsibility we all have as drivers to ensure that, where the agreements are not complied with, there is sufficient enforcement tools and instruments in general to prevent the outbreak. Specifically at the point of quarantine we have seen that you also saw yesterday, in the Chamber, with Jaap van Dissel and the GGD..................................................................................................................................................................................... This is a matter of great concern, because not everyone keeps to it. For the people at the GGD who do source and contact research and say "you must now comply with a quarantine measure" it is demotivating if people do not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u119	It is difficult to count the questions very well when there is an answer that answers all kinds of questions I have not asked, but that does not answer the precise question I asked. So I think it would be a good idea to repeat my question. The Prime Minister mentioned Van Dissel's briefing yesterday; I was there. But my question was: on the basis of what exact information or advice from the experts has such a major change of course been put in place compared to Thursday evening? Then, at the press conference, the cabinet explicitly did not propose this possibility for close contacts of people infected, but last night it did. I am asking, precisely because the Prime Minister said three times: I am not of the obligations, I am not a dictator. For such a change of course there must be a new fact, a new advice, and not some kind of anecdotal feeling that it is not going well, because that was already the case on Thursday. We all know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u120	Then I have to be precise on my part, because it is certainly not the case that the cabinet says that it is only up to society. That's not true. Further enforcement measures have also been announced on Thursday. With regard to the way things are going, I will explain in my reply how more is being maintained at the moment. That's also important. The instruments for this have been extended. All this, of course, under the responsibility of the Minister of Health, under the Public Health Act, Article 7 and other articles, which give the power to take both national and regional measures. In addition, as a cabinet, we have been concerned for some time about cooperating in the research of sources and contact and whether people are prepared to follow the quarantine measures. Of course, we get signals from the GGD about the developments regarding the motivation for this: when you call, someone turns out to be in the ball pit at IKEA, for example, well, not that person himself, but his children, whom he guides instead of sitting at home. Nor is it the case that we only make communications at the press conferences. The mind is constantly busy with us, too. So we have been thinking for some time about what we can do with existing legislation and what should be done in addition, with additional measures or additional legislation. We have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to simply tighten up the quarantine measure. There is scope for this in existing legislation. Additional legislation is needed to really ask people to participate in the source and contact research, to ask people to cooperate when they come from orange travel areas. However, in general terms, it appears that there are the necessary possibilities for compliance with the quarantine imposition in the existing legislation. The combination of moving thinking about what exactly can be done in the legislation, plus the signals that we have of course been getting for a long time, but also over the past few days, from all kinds of bodies and yesterday in the letter you can see for yourself what that does in the GGD has been a reason to say: we really need to take this a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u121	The Prime Minister refers to the responsibility of the Minister of Health. I understand that, too. Just let him wash this piggy. But I really saw the Prime Minister at that press conference. I do not think he is now making clear what that progressive insight is based on, and that is problematic. Because just when you want to get people along, you have to be very clear about what people are expected to do. If the Prime Minister says "I don't do those commitments" and three days later he will come up with them, without indicating what has changed, it does not do any good for the credibility of the approach. So I would like to call him: if there is a moving insight, be open about it, communicate it yourself, do so at the press conference. That makes people's trust much greater that you learn from what is not going well along the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u122	Very precise. I have only tried to refer to the legislation on the basis of which the Minister of Health has the opportunity to impose measures, not to bring him into a certain role. But I think that's right, because that's the legal framework within which we do that. Of course, as Prime Minister, I take responsibility for all the decisions we make. I also support those decisions, very much. Secondly, it is also very precise. It is not my position that it is a matter of "the" society and if "the" society does not, then it is a pity. It's my position that it's a joint responsibility. So it's en-and. We can only fight this virus together if, as well as society as a whole, we keep the commitments that we have kept to a great extent for months, which, fortunately, many people still adhere to, the 1.5 meters and all kinds of other things. In combination with firm government measures, both national and, covering up, regional measures. These too are always taken into account in the general framework of the Public Health Act, to ensure that we can stamp out that virus at the stage we are now in, Mrs Marijnissen. That is of the utmost importance. But it's always and-and. It is and say to society: we have a collective responsibility here, but it is also the responsibility of our directors to take additional measures to ensure tight enforcement. Once again, I will go into this in more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u123	And yet this is not credible and I think something else has happened. I agree with Mr Asscher that it is not possible for the Minister of Health to say on Thursday evening: we have the scaling up of the source and contact investigations in order, the GGD can literally handle his words fantastic. The Prime Minister says I'm not a dictator. And a few days after that, there's really gonna be a major decision. It's a huge coalition decision. For months there has been no such big decision, to make quarantine compulsory and to make it criminal. We will see here in the Chamber today that it is not even supported by the entire coalition. There hasn't been a Council of Ministers yet. If I am well informed, the first Council of Ministers will not be until Friday after 10 July. There hasn't been a Council of Ministers, there hasn't been any consultation in the Council of Ministers, and the coalition partner D66 says she won't support it. So something happened. I'm gonna ask the Prime Minister to tell me what that was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u124	I have tried to do so, also in response to Mr Asscher's questions. Of course, the press moments are very important, but it is not that the mind stands still. Very specific as regards compliance with quarantine measures. They are very important because we know that too many people who have been in contact with someone who has been infected for some time also turn out to have that virus themselves. I thought, Hugo, 20% of the people who have been in contact for some time, am I saying that right? Yeah, about 20%. A quarantine measure is imposed on the basis of the principle of voluntary restraint, which remains so, but now with more enforcement. If that doesn't happen, that means there's a real chance that someone will continue to transmit the virus. That's a danger. That is why we have been thinking for a long time about what we can do about it. I'm gonna put a few things together in a very practical way. I mention source and contact research and not cooperating in source and contact research by people from orange travel areas. Then you come across the fact that there really is a need for additional legislation. We announced it yesterday in the letter. Within the existing Wpg 2008 it is possible to do so, but it is not easy to go one step further as regards the more compelling imposition of that quarantine. This involves the combination of care and the progressive understanding of how to do that. I'm not ashamed of that. It will happen more often that we will have to take steps together in this difficult issue of the fight against the virus in order to get it under control. In addition, the increasing number of infections. We saw another day record yesterday. Fortunately a recent day record and not a record for the whole crisis. That is why we have said that it is necessary to go a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u125	Maybe after yesterday's record, the Prime Minister knew all that last Thursday. So my conclusion is that something else happened. Could it not have something to do with the fact that the new leader of the CDA, Mr De Jonge, went on his nose last Thursday? During the press conference, I believe millions of Dutch people have seen this, he said: it's all pico bello in order with that scaling up of the source and contact research and the GGD's are doing great. A day after that, he turned out not to be and stood in his shirt. He looks white and bad, by the way, I just told colleagues. I'm not gonna let him do that for someone who just went on vacation. He looks stressed, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u126	It's browner than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u127	You can make a joke about it, but he looks like shit. I'm telling you, Prime Minister, it can't be that after that press conference, where the Minister of Health went down, and while Friday it turned out that the GGDs were scaling down instead of scaling up, you made a decision three days later that wasn't even supported by the entire coalition, to force that quarantine and criminalize offense at once. I think that was to save Mr. De Jonge's face as CDA leader. Mr. Prime Minister, that's poorly prepared, non-coalition-wide panic football. It's bad for the corona policy, bad for the support base and bad for your coalition. It's not supported. That's where he was trying to save his face. You shouldn't be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u128	As Tommy Lascelles would say in The Crown: I beg to differ. 'Cause that's not right. There was indeed a really annoying event on Friday. That's just true. Hugo de Jonge will go into that more closely. I can also say something about it, and it turns out that in the regions of Amsterdam and Rotterdam it is not possible to have all the BCOs, all the contact investigations, take place as you would like. This also has to do with the strong increase in numbers. That's just a fact. By the way, the GGDs are working very hard at the moment. I have great respect for that. There's been a tremendous amount of work lately to scale up. The fact is that, if you look at the increase in the number of infections in the last few weeks, the concentration occurs precisely in those two places. Friday just came in with the announcement. Hugo de Jonge and I, he's in the lead, of course -- he's been on the phone together. Eventually, he managed to get Defense to jump in and so on. That's not what you want, but I'll say one thing. In an extremely complex crisis like this, this can also happen in the future. You can't stop everything. I'm just gonna say that in all honesty here. So there will be more debates where you say: Oh, but now something is happening that we didn't want. Yeah, that's right, because you can't prevent 100% of everything. The increase in the number of infections, especially in the two regions mentioned above, is such that this happened. That's not good and we're working awfully hard to get it back under control, but I'm standing here for the GGDs who work terribly hard and are very hard to scale up. But that is not the case with Mr Wilders' idea that this should be linked to yesterday's communication on quarantine. By the way, I've never seen Hugo de Jonge browner than today. So I disagree with his medical judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u129	Finally, let me say that I feel that the cabinet is increasingly facing political problems. We're talking about panic football. The coalition is incomplete. The proposal not to criminalise quarantine is not supported by many parties, from the opposition but even within the coalition. The Minister of Health has little support for this. People at home don't understand that. I do not think that this has anything to do with new insights or with the new direction. It has to do with the new leader of the CDA, who couldn't have it for his image, supporters and appearance that he went on his nose, didn't want to talk about that blunder with the GGD and then chose the attack to come forward with a far-reaching proposal that friend and enemy here in the Chamber, opposition and coalition have said: unnecessary, trust in the people, there aren't thousands of people who don't stick to it and who deserve it. It's panic football. It is a political decision, and that means that you are in a difficult political situation. That is not such a problem in itself, but for the corona approach that is disastrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u130	I do not share Mr Wilders' analysis. Since Bruno Bruns had to stop working on this file with Hugo de Jonge in mid-March. I have rarely experienced in my political career someone who is willing to take so much responsibility in difficult times. I am not talking about his party, that's what they're trying to figure out, but now they're trying to control the corona crisis and effectively. I would point out, however, that this is the experience I have gained in recent years, including in terms of damage and shame, and will repeat myself in the future. If you control and deal with complex implementation issues under difficult conditions, it may be so, it is sometimes even inevitable, although you do everything you can to prevent it from happening in practice as you thought at the time that they would go on the basis of all the information you have available at that time. There are also explanations for what happened last Friday. It's part of the job. Let me just say once again: I do not rule out the fact that it will continue to happen more often in the future in dealing with this complex crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u131	I find the Prime Minister's words worrying when he says: I do not rule out the possibility of this happening more often in the future. The source and contact research has never been a question of new insights, because the insight has long been that this source and contact research is the foundation of the fight against the corona virus. We have all known for a very long time that this source and contact research is extremely important, it is the basis of the approach. Then I'm just gonna have to tell the Prime Minister right here. His own partymate called the situation "unaccountable." I think that's right. I also find it unacceptable because we have talked about it so many times in the Chamber and have so many times had a commitment and a guarantee. Of course, in a crisis approach, anything can go wrong, but at the moment when your foundation starts to falter, and that is when the source and contact research should be released at such an early stage in such important places, the fireplaces, I say: that should not happen! How does the Prime Minister look back when a press conference is being held and this news is coming out less than 24 hours later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u132	Again, that's possible. That is because we are dealing here with GMDs, doing fantastic work, working very regionally and not under direct national control, fortunately, because that is exactly what nobody would want, I think. Much has been done in recent times with the scaling-up of activities. Much of this has also become visible after Friday, since Hugo de Jonge immediately took actions: accelerating additional capacity from the rural shell, which now consists of 550 fte and which is further scaled up to 1050 fte, making additional capacity available from regions where the pressure is lower, additional investment in accelerated training of people and the deployment of Defense. Mr De Jonge will deal with it in a moment. I can't answer the VVD's question about other organizations, because that's in the package of questions that Hugo de Jonge will answer. In general, these are the type of actions you have to take when confronted with them. Moreover, it is not the case that there is no source and contact research. Similar to what happens to sexually transmitted diseases, people are now asked to call people themselves.It's not ideal, because you don't want to say that at all.I've been in touch with you for more than 15 minutes recently within 1.5 meters; be very careful about the coming time and keep a low profile. We must, of course, get back to the situation as soon as possible that the GDPDs can do so themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u133	I'd like to get on with this. The Prime Minister mentions a number of 550. This number would be in the skin of the source and contact research. But in the debate on 20 May, I have the minutes in front of me, Mr De Jonge has promised that they would be scaled up to 2,400 fte in the first place within 24 hours and then to 3,200 fte. It was already mentioned that there would be over 800 people on the payroll. This was May 20th. In the meantime, we've been a few months. It was a number of relatively quiet summer months, in which proper work could be done on scaling up. But the opposite has happened. We saw the director of the GGD in the paper say, "We're gonna send people home because they're playing thumbs-up." I ask the Prime Minister my question again. If we know that the source and contact research is the foundation, then I do not think that it can be said here: "In a crisis approach things go wrong. Last Friday an annoying fact arose." This is much more than an "annoying fact." The VVD qualified as "unaccountable." I agree. As far as I'm concerned, it's unacceptable. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister should come up with a clearer story on how we are going to solve this, but also on how this could have happened. It really does work with the confidence; at least with us, I notice. If it is said that we are being scaled up and ready, then we have the confidence that has been scaled up and that we are ready. When a press conference is said to be fantastic, we want to be able to rely on it. So it turns out there's no way to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u134	Since June, the GGD's capacity in the region for source and contact research has grown to 1,250 fte and there is a nationwide shell of 550. I think that is a great achievement. This is a huge scaling-up. In view of the sudden increase in the number of infections, the national peel will be accelerated to 1,050 fte in the next week. In the following weeks, national capacity is increased to 2,000. With that we have a total capacity of 3,250. So it's being worked out incredibly hard. In the meantime, a number of emergency measures have been taken. I just mentioned it. What happened last Friday is not what you want. I'm not running away from that. It's not what you want in two important places not at full capacity that BCO can take place. Again, it's not like it's not happening, but now people are being asked to call for themselves. You don't want that. You want the G.D.D. to be able to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u135	For clarity: the GGD is working very hard. Compliments to all those people who do this day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u136	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u137	But if you don't have enough colleagues, it's gonna be really hard. Well, let me just mention one more thing. The Prime Minister once again mentions that there is a shell of 550, after which it is scaled up to 1,050 and to 2,000. I will quote a little more from the debate on 20 May: "Mrs Marijnissen asked how much capacity you would need. A restructuring plan has been drawn up." Then it's about that there were 700 on the payroll at that time. This would be 800. Then it was said on 20 May: "Start next week is scaled up to 2,400 FTE. Together it will be 3,200 fte." I hear the Prime Minister now that it is almost three months later to mention exactly the same numbers. That doesn't give you confidence, does it? Then what happened in the past period, I wonder? Apparently, last Friday, the cabinet was surprised by this statement from the GGD, while these commitments were already made on 20 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u138	The scale is just like I just outlined. With regard to last Friday, I repeat that this is undesirable. I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen. This isn't what you want. Emergency links are being established there too to prevent the BCO from taking place. This is similar to the study in the case of sexually transmitted diseases. But, this isn't what you want. That is why we are now working very hard to get the normal BCO research to take place in Amsterdam and Rotterdam as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u139	Finally. I can repeat the words of the VVD Group that it is an irresponsible situation. But I also find it unacceptable, because the Prime Minister and the Cabinet simply come up with exactly the same story as we heard on 20 May. If a press conference is being held and it is said that it is going to be fantastic, then I just want us to be able to rely on it. I do not want us to be attacked the next day with the message that the foundation of our approach is at stake. I note that this is the case and that we must do it again: we are going to make a plan and this is what is in the pipeline. It should have been there and could have been, because people have been sent away because they would be turning thumbs. How did this happen, I wonder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u140	I just outlined that in the previous answer. The cabinet fully agrees with the Chamber that it is very important that the BCO can take place properly. The fact is that in recent weeks the increase in numbers of infections was higher than many had anticipated at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u141	I understand the Prime Minister when he says that in such a crisis something can happen, even if we do not want it to happen, and it is certainly disappointing in its implementation. This was particularly the case in the first phase until June. Then we had something completely new to do. The only advantage I see at this stage is that we are already experiencing it for the second time. I have said that it is precisely the source and contact research that is the key to ensuring that we can relax the measures. It has been extended in the Chamber about the amount of capacity that should be available. But I note that no delivery has been made. That's problematic. I want the Prime Minister to take that up. How come the numbers promised to the Chamber have not been delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u142	I've just outlined to you the entire scheme. Moreover, I fully agree with Mr Klaver that it is very important that the source and contact studies can be carried out. We also consider it an undesirable situation that last Friday Amsterdam and Rotterdam, due to the high numbers that occurred there, had to say that it was inevitable that they would temporarily scale down that type of research. Emergency dressings have now been put in place for this purpose. So I fully agree with Mr Klaver. I have just outlined the whole scheme: where that leads, the FTEs and when. I therefore refer to the previous answer. Mr Klaver and I, and probably most of the Chamber, agree that it is important that these BCOs can take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u143	But we've been on that for months, so that's not the point at all. I would like to stress to the Cabinet that we are side by side here, because we must fight this virus together. The question I'm asking is another one. The figures mentioned by the cabinet for scaling up at the GGD are the ones we heard in May. I therefore note that it did not succeed. We were promised that there would be sufficient capacity and that we would scale up to 2,400 fte, and that was not possible. Now my question is, because we have to learn from that: why? That is a very simple question or perhaps it is complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u144	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u145	But how come there hasn't been scaled up, not to that extent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u146	I understand that Hugo de Jonge will soon share all the details about this. Let me get one element out of it. What's involved is training people. This requires training people on the job, to free people to do the BCO work. You really need to train them on the spot. There must be sufficient source and contact studies. There's been a time when they were much less. These are a number of elements, but Minister De Jonge will go into this in more detail, which will ultimately slow down the training process more slowly than you would like. This has partly to do with the favourable development of few infections at the end of May/beginning of June. Those are all kinds of things that play a part, but our ambition is "I've just outlined the timeline" to work towards the numbers we need to achieve with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u147	The reasons that are now being mentioned remain: shortages in the capacity problems to train et cetera. We have never been informed of this before. It has always been said that things are going well, the scaling up is going well, the GGDs are doing great. It is so important, especially in times of crisis, that we can believe it when that is said. What I want isn't sweet sandwiches. If it doesn't go well with the scaling up, I want to be honest: where are the problems? It's the Chamber's job to know that. That's not shared. Now we are all suddenly confronted with the fact that there are not enough people trained. When I hear the Prime Minister, I worry. I don't see any reason why the number would have been reached in a few weeks' time. The circumstances are still the same as they were a few weeks ago. What has been done in recent weeks to scale up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u148	A major change is unfortunately the considerable number of increased infections. It's paradoxical, but that's something that's crazy enough, and I'm emphasising that it helps to train people, because then you can actually get people into work. We had very few infections in May/June. That was one of the factors. Once again, however, the Minister for Health will discuss this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u149	Finally. I will continue to ask the Prime Minister because this is really the essence of source and contact research and testing why we could have the reins celebrated and deal with each other a little more normally. That's why I'm going through with this. It is at the heart of the strategy. If it fails or doesn't go well, we have a really big problem. What I hear now is that the fact that there are more infections is the reason why we can scale up faster now. That scares the hell out of me. If we fail to put capacity in order within two or three weeks, it will affect the degree of freedom in which we can live together. A Messenger has been appointed, Feike Sijbesma. He did his best to buy as many tests as possible. Not all these tests are being used yet. Those tests only work if we also do source and contact research. The whole strategy of the cabinet stands or falls with that source and contact research. You say that the Minister will come back to the details, but we have been asking about this for months now and it is still not good. The last few weeks nothing has changed, but now at least 2,400 FTE will be available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u150	Again, in the coming weeks, the national shell will be doubled to 1,050. The national capacity is increased to 2,000 in the weeks thereafter, bringing you to a total capacity of 3,250.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u151	It is worrying; colleagues have already noted this. My question is about communication. In the letter I read that the Minister says: we are going to investigate and test risk-driven in the cities of Rotterdam and Amsterdam, in Amstelland and Rijnmond. But actually, there's something completely different there. It says: we have too little capacity to test everyone, as we would. I think that's euphemistic. I find that unclear. This helps to make this look like something new again. It is then as if one region is going to test differently than the other because they are going to test risk-driven in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It should have just said: we have not achieved the capacity and there are too many requests; we are going to do everything we can to organise this. Why does the government choose this way of communicating?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u152	There's a little too much behind that. I believe that, given the fact that normal capacity does not allow for a source and contact study, risk-based work is being carried out, and that the normal methodology for sexually transmitted diseases is also being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u153	I've been looking online for a while. On reichsoverheid.nl it still says that from 1 June any Dutchman who wants to be tested can be tested. That's still there; I just checked. It also explains why this was not possible before. There weren't enough tests. A Messenger has been appointed. He's been working his ass off. He organized it. But this is just not true. That's what I'm trying to tell you: if you communicate unclearly, there's confusion within society. People send all sorts of messages that show that they don't understand it properly if you don't explain it properly. When will this be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u154	The testing will continue. This is about the source and contact research. I think that is a misunderstanding with Mr Azarkan, not with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u155	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u156	We're losing communication here. What matters is that we are well informed. It says, as has been said here in the Chamber when the problems were over: that from 1 June any Netherlands wishing to do so can be tested. That's just not true. It's still online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u157	Anyone can be tested. The discussion is not about testing, but about the source and contact research. I think that is a misunderstanding with Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u159	As always, I have been assisted by the Chamber and a few questions have already been answered by the interruptions. Perhaps a brief word on the strategy. We've talked about that a few times. I have just mentioned Mrs Marijnissen, who referred to this. You know: we want to protect vulnerable groups as well as possible and at the same time ensure that care is able to cope. In the control phase we are now in, everything is aimed at, if there is a flicker of the virus, stomping it out as soon as possible. Of course, it helps a lot when a vaccine comes. Hugo de Jonge will go into more detail in a moment about the situation, as far as questions are concerned. I thought there were. Of course, it would be great if, by means of new treatment methods, we could ensure that the disease does not have the impact it has now. Once again, that source and contact research is ultimately very important. We just talked about that. Important to prevent the virus from spreading, is investing in testing, tracking, but also isolating and reporting from home. That's the quarantine; the point we talked about earlier. This allows us to control the virus until we have a vaccine or a treatment that protects us from the virus as a society. Then I'll continue with the travel advice. A question has been asked about the travel advice of European countries which sometimes seem to be contradictory. This involves the fact that health and travel are national competences. There is intense contact with the countries around us, but every European country ultimately makes its own sovereign assessment. The Dutch travel advice is, as you know, based on advice from the RIVM and information from embassies about the situation in other countries. It also looks at the tourist flows to those countries and their impact on Dutch health. Those approaches vary from country to country. It is not a matter that has been corrected at European level. Countries have their own national competence. We have, however, looked at this in response to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and what you can do with the neighbouring countries. In March this year, at the initiative of the Prime Minister of North Rhine-Westphalia, Armin Laschet, the official Cross-Border Task Force Corona was set up. This includes the Netherlands, North Rhine-Westphalia, Lower Saxony and Belgium, and since July Rhineland-Palatinate, which borders Belgium, reaching the entire border area. The aim is to coordinate border regions and to promote the rapid identification of possible bottlenecks from this coordination. There was daily contact during the peak of the corona crisis. That task force is working well. The intensive cooperation with these countries has contributed to the care of some 60 Dutch patients in German hospitals in intensive care there. It is important that we continue to do so. It is also crucial for the economy that we work intensively across borders. Then there was the suggestion, I thought, Mrs. Sazias. I'm picking up that glove. So I'm going to see how I can organise a meeting with older people at the Catshuis to see how we can also get their input. We are going to do that, of course with the nursing homes and with Hugo de Jonge. Then there is the question of how it can be that so many people are returning from at-risk areas. They must of course be quarantined for two weeks. Excuse me, Mrs. Fat-Faber, I saw you walking to the microphone. I should have answered this question in the first place. You can still see people traveling to high-risk areas. They have to follow the rules: two weeks of quarantine. You may know that in advance and for very urgent reasons you are going on a journey anyway. It's possible. It may also be that you are somewhere and that such an area goes orange. At the same time, you also see that some travel advice had to be adapted during the holiday period, including for countries and areas where a lot of people really go, such as Croatia and Catalonia, which have huge numbers of infections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u160	Before you continue... Mrs. Thick-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u161	The Prime Minister indicated that there was a consultation with a number of Länder from Germany and Belgium. That's good to hear. It is also good to hear that it works well. My group has heard that people visiting Zeeland from Belgium, from Flanders, should be quarantined when they return home. That has great consequences for the people there when you talk about commuting or family visits. It's just across the border. Is this item on the agenda for this meeting? If not, does the Prime Minister want to set it up there so that tailor-made work can be applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u162	Good point. I believe that it is true that I am improvising something, so I ask the officials to listen and provide me with a final answer that there are special conditions for people from the border region who work across the border, for example a nurse from Belgium who works in the Netherlands or vice versa, because they are border workers. You can also see this very strongly between Luxembourg, France and Germany, but certainly also between the Netherlands and Belgium and the Netherlands and Germany. But I'm just gonna check to see if that's a good shot in that meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u163	That's what you'll come back to in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u164	I'll come back to that in the second term, yes. If there's a little paperwork going on, I'll be sure what I just said is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u165	I'd like to wait and see. My second question is about the people who come to the Netherlands from at-risk areas. I was really surprised that the Health Minister said in the press conference that it concerns thousands of people every day, if I understood correctly. I can't understand that. I also heard a radio interview yesterday. I will not mention any names here, but they are airlines that simply create the offer, offer flights to countries that, in our view, should not be visited. Then I say with my farmers' understanding: the supply also creates demand. Why aren't these companies being called upon to do so? Why is it possible to travel to these countries on such a large scale? Why do thousands of people still come into our country from risk areas by plane, by car or by train every day? That should not be possible, because that also makes controlling this coronavirus much more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u166	Yes. That is one of the reasons why we are also considering whether it is possible through legislation to make quarantine more compelling for travellers from orange travel areas, but that really requires further legislation. So that's different from the quarantine after following up on the source and contact research. Look, in itself, it's not forbidden to travel to an orange area. The commandment is: do it only if you have urgent business to do there. But unfortunately it also happens now that people go somewhere and get to hear: hey, all of a sudden this has become orange and you still have two weeks in quarantine. I mentioned the examples Croatia and Catalonia, but there are more. I could add Antwerp. Of course, that's very annoying for vacationers. What we do as airlines offer packages... I'm not going to repeat which company did, because that has changed its policy by now. Then I think it's silly to mention that here again. But it has happened recently that arrangements have been offered which we find vulnerable, medically, and which seem to guarantee some sort of false safety that you cannot live up to. Then you can see that the policy is being changed. But it's not like we can say you can't fly that anymore. Of course, the largest airlines also fly to America, to China, but only to China, and there are the travel advices for........................................................................................................................................................................................... I therefore agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. I also think that these numbers are significant, but that is a problem that affects the whole of Europe. You can now see that discussion in Bavaria about what you can do, for example, at a few large train stations. These kinds of issues are starting to arise now. Mrs Dik-Faber also rightly points out that there is still some scope for keeping an eye on what is happening at the airports, but it is becoming more complicated by train and certainly by car. Then you're really gonna have to try it on a sample basis. Anyway, we're just trying to get them to get a few things taken care of at Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u167	I think I might come back to this in the second term, because I think that the words of the Prime Minister also show that we are having difficulty giving direction to this. It is a request to people; people should not leave for orange areas. I know there's nothing you can do about it once you get there, when you're on vacation in Croatia and the area is orange. But it's just too common for people to take the travel advice in the wind and now return thousands at a time. Another appeal to the Prime Minister to keep his finger on the pulse here, to continue looking for ways to reach this group and to continue to say that this is very undesirable if we want to control the virus with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u168	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u169	Mrs Van Esch and then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u170	I actually want to continue on what Mrs Dik-Faber was talking about. We also see airlines that have been trying to get people back on the plane at stunt prices for the last few weeks. I'm really sorry about that in the corona time we're in. I think we should be hard on the fact that we really can't tolerate stunt prices for flies right now. I would like a ruling from the Prime Minister on this. When we see this kind of adverts from an airline coming by, they don't take the corona crisis seriously in any way. I am curious to hear the answer to my question about those test streets at Schiphol Airport and other airports. I asked for that in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u171	Would you please ask Mr. De Jonge? Because I really haven't prepared for the details of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u172	Okay. It just came across as if the block on risk areas...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u173	No, the tests at Schiphol Airport do Hugo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u174	Okay, then I'm gonna wait very patiently. But I hope to get an answer to that question about stunt prices around advertising for airlines and flights, because I really do not think that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u175	I share that with Mrs Van Esch, but you cannot legally enforce it. I can't. Those are, of course, free companies that are allowed to do so. They have to work within the rules. The rules say you can fly on your own in those kinds of areas. You can go there, too, but, again, you have to have a really good reason, we think. You can only say to people "you must observe the quarantine." And we're looking at this is yesterday's letter, which you can do to enforce it legally. But I agree with Mrs Van Esch. It is, of course, remarkable when this happens in areas where it is undesirable for people to go there. That is undesirable, unless there is really no other way, for urgent personal or other reasons. Then you can't stop airlines from flying there. That's not the problem either. But I do understand her inconvenience, so to speak, that I share with her, using stunt prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u176	Thanks for the answer. Discomfort, indeed. I do like to express real disapproval towards these kinds of companies. After all, at this time, we cannot promote flying all together, especially to areas at risk. I think that at this time is just not something we should be helping into the world in that way. And then I'm going to wait patiently for the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u177	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u178	I would like to know from the Prime Minister whether, in the neighbouring countries, as he has just mentioned, there is also talk, for example, of the fact that many people from neighbouring countries are coming to our beaches. I just need to mention Scheveningen as an example of how we don't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u179	There is no policy of discouragement in Europe for travel to each other's countries. That's the complicated part. However, there are powers of mayors to intervene when the numbers are getting too large. I will come to that in a moment, to a question that has been asked by Mr Veldman and others. But of course it is not in itself a policy to say to Germans and Belgians "don't come to the Netherlands." It's not the other way around. The Dutch are also not discouraged from going to France. It is simply said: do not go to countries where an orange travel advice applies. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u180	Yeah, but I'm asking the question mostly because it concerns a lot of day-to-day people here. So there are huge fluctuations. But I share what the Prime Minister says. And when we talk about travel policy, as CDA, we would have asked for people from a risk area to be required to be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u181	That's what Hugo the Young is all about. He'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u182	I have a question that builds on this. The prime minister doesn't want to do that, but the mayor of Antwerp does. He says, "Please don't come to Antwerp." That's not unkind at all. Everyone understands that, too. So why should we not say, for example during this heat wave, 'don't come to the Dutch beaches'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u183	We'll do it. By the way, it is not so much about the Dutch beaches. Last week I also said on behalf of Femke Halsema, the mayor of Amsterdam, in the press conference: don't come to the crowded places in Amsterdam. After all, Amsterdam is a city with a lot of people on a relatively small territory, which is also very much felt at the moment. When we discussed this with each other, we said: it would be good if I mentioned it in the press conference. So that's the kind of specific signals you can give. But we do not give a more general message in the sense of "don't come to the Netherlands" to people from Belgium and Germany. We're not doing that right now. I will get to the point in a moment, what happens to these beaches, because at the moment all kinds of regions are taking action to get the crowds back under control. Of course it is also bizarre beautiful weather over a bizarre long period. Now that has enormous negative effects on the hustle and bustle. This also affects people here in Scheveningen, Noordwijk and other coastal towns and that is a huge nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u184	Yet this is a point where there really is a problem. At the press conference, I heard the Minister say that we do not want very different regional directives, because otherwise people will go from one region to another. But if you are currently in the border region with Belgium, where people in the catering industry have to be much more careful than in the Netherlands, you can see that all Dutch terraces are packed with Belgians who do not keep a distance from each other and apparently there is not enough action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u185	In general terms, of course, in the security regions, which are once again on the agenda, you see the importance of keeping away and therefore the importance of maintaining them. That doesn't necessarily have to be with extra fines. This can also be done by pointing out that people are much more active. Maybe I can cut that point right away, the question that has been asked about local enforcement. This was immediately in response to Mr Krol, but it was also a question from Mr Veldman and others referred to it. Of course, that has everything to do with the fact that this pandemic is an A disease and is therefore under the authority of the cabinet. The security regions are also acting on behalf of the cabinet. They are responsible for enforcement. What you are seeing at the moment is that a lot of measures are being taken. We see that in Bloemendaal a pop-up party has been demolished and sound equipment has been taken. There is now also a provision in the emergency regulation. We see in Gelderland, Noord-Brabant and Zuid-Holland that parties have been broken down. One example concerns a celebration with two inland vessels and 200 people in small boats in South Holland-South. In the north people are addressed on terraces or in the row in front of the terrace. In many places in the Netherlands there has also been the closure of catering establishments where hygiene rules and social distancing have not been observed in a normal way. Access to beaches and parks is limited. I say this specifically in the direction of Mrs Sazias, who referred to this as in Rotterdam, where the Zuiderpark is closed. In the region of The Hague, the access roads to Scheveningen and Kijkduin were temporarily closed. All these measures are taken, including the three levels of enforcement. Those are, one, closing down areas and breaking up parties that should not take place in that form, two, appealing to behavior and, three, if necessary, also maintaining by also punitive action from three persons on the 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u186	The Prime Minister is now talking about regions in the Netherlands, but what I am so worried about is that I have seen it several times over the past week.In the evening on Dutch terraces on this side of the Belgian border is really insanely busy. Are you taking this problem into account in the country talks with Belgium?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u187	Yeah, absolutely. We will. On the Dutch side, however, when what Mr Krol sees takes place, there is another task for security regions to see how they deal with the renewed awareness of the issue. Mr. Chairman. Just a few more questions. Well, let's start with the student associations. Of course, we didn't do that for nothing. You can also see in young people, unfortunately... There are a lot of young people who do follow the rules and I also understand that a lot of young people are unlikely to hate the whole phenomenon of the virus, but it is there. We know that if young people are infected, the consequences are sometimes very serious, but they are also very often less severe for young people. But they can also light people who are older. Especially if they are people at a certain age or with vulnerable health, this can also lead to rising numbers in hospitals and intensive care. It has been asked by Jaap van Dissel in the hearing with the Chamber, as I read back in its reports, that the figures in themselves are hopefully permanent at the hospitals, but possibly also a temporary phenomenon when the resultant contamination is to take place. That is why it is so important that we really look at that, even now in August, with the figures we are seeing now. After all, we know that students, certainly HBO and university students, are also involved in the MBO, but the large flows are HBO and university students who are also inter-regional, working throughout the country, travelling. They go from The Hague to Groningen and from Groningen to Maastricht to study. And rightly so, if they like it and can find nice studies. But that also brings with it risks for the spread. That is why we have said: we really need to be restrictive here. The general introductory weeks should take place as much as possible online, and if possible physically, but in small groups, without alcohol and at 10 pm stop. The same applies to study-related associations and sports associations. And for the hazing weeks, let me put it this way: yes, boys, they just don't. It's really not wise to let that go on. We're not saying that because we like it. I am not making myself very popular with this group either, but fortunately the elections are still far away. The list leader of the VVD who will be there will have to explain that. But I think this measure is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u188	I see you standing, Mr. Van Haga. Mr Veldman is also at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u189	The point I was trying to make is, of course, not so much that measures are being taken, because everyone here has agreed that measures have occasionally been taken at certain times. But there is a discrepancy between the measures that are now being taken. The Prime Minister chooses to oppose specific social associations. But you can get acquainted with a chess association, a rowing association or a study association. I don't understand the discrepancy. Can you explain to me why that difference was made?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u190	It's tricky. Borders are, of course, always arbitrary. You're trying to reduce risks. We made the next choice. For the general student associations and the real hazing weeks: sorry, but that is just not possible and the risk is too great. You saw that in Amsterdam a few student associations had also taken measures themselves after contaminations had been found there, so even before we came up with this. We have also looked at the sports-specific associations, and certainly at specific study-oriented associations. In addition, we say: do the introduction to sports and that introduction to study or, if not before 10 p.m. and without alcohol. But don't do those general student associations, which are really a little further away from the daily process at the university itself. Yeah, you know, it's no fun, but I'm afraid it's necessary to take further action here. In this way, we also looked at football, as I outlined in the press conference last week. We have said: there are not now any additional national measures for this. But we have specifically said to the mayors about this: know what opportunities you have there and what you can do, even after the experiences of that training of Feyenoord. So, now that the numbers are what they are and are getting pretty high, you should really look at the places where a lot of people come together. In those places, we must now limit the risks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u191	Of course, this is not really an answer. The Prime Minister actually says: yes, it is a bad measure, I find it annoying too, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u193	I object to the word "hazing." This shows that there is not a complete picture of what is happening there. There are sociable associations that have a huge number of sub-unions. There you can row, and chess, and bridge, and football. So those are the same kind of associations. And the crazy thing is that many of these associations already had a stamp from the security region, from the mayor, from the GGD. They could simply start, with extremely strict protocols, which often went far beyond the rules imposed by the cabinet. So I ask again: would it not be right to look at this again and allow it, in the same way as with specific sports associations or study associations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u194	We also discussed this measure with the representatives of the Security Council and the mayors, but also with the associations. That's what they've set themselves up for. Not everyone was happy about it, but there is also a difference between the situation now and the situation of let's say two or three weeks ago. That difference is in the rising numbers. Those numbers have also increased over the last few days. We saw the numbers in the RIVM weekly reports yesterday. In doing so, you try to see if there are a few things that do not immediately have a dramatic impact on the economy, but which specifically concern young people, now that young people are overrepresented in the statistics. And we know it's all annoying, but yes, that whole virus is annoying and we must of course try to keep things under control as best we can. And I admit it's not just hazing. That sounds so corporate. General social associations you have of all colors and tastes. But there is, of course, a difference between the genuinely specific sports associations and the associations targeted at a specific study, and the more general student associations and social associations. Then let me leave the word "ungreening." This applies to the more general student associations and the more general social associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u195	I'm not getting a full answer anyway. There was already a stamp. I'm in contact with a lot of associations like this. They haven't suspended anything yet, so nothing's going on yet. It can all just go on. But the stamps of the GGD, the mayor and the security region were already on the protocols. The Prime Minister is not entirely responding to this. I'd still like to take another shot at getting some kind of explanation. It was all good a week ago, wasn't it? The security region was fine with it: go ahead. In Groningen, I believe it's still going on. So what's different now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u196	My answer to Mr Asscher and others was that I said not only last week that it was up to society, but also that we as directors should take difficult measures. It's always and-and. It's always a combination. The further extension of the instruments in the region, as well as the adoption of a few national measures, were necessary because the numbers in recent weeks, even last week in the run-up to the press conference and the announcements there, were rising considerably. Then seriously the question is whether you should impose restrictions on that important period in students' lives, in August mostly, where study, sport and cosiness are concerned. We have tried to find a balance, but the figures are what they are. They have deteriorated considerably in recent weeks and thus also the risks. We're gonna have to deal with that anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u197	This remains at the level of "the rotten measure." I know the Prime Minister as a liberal liberal, so I still do not understand how it is possible, because these associations can produce binding protocols within the rules, which already have stamps on them, so there is no risk whatsoever. You can put everything in those protocols, for example: you don't go to your grandpa and grandma in two weeks after that. All that stuff, you can rule it out. The impact is enormous on these kinds of young people. Why isn't that being looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u198	My goal, of course, is to be quite sensible at some point. In this context, it is important to note that protocols can do a lot and that good protocols are made with the best of intentions. I appreciate that. That's what happens in the hospitality business. In many places people try to limit risks, but the fact is that these numbers are increasing, also quite specifically among young people. If you see that in the month of August tens of thousands of MBOs, HBOs and universities will meet in all kinds of places, then the best protocols there will not remove the risks. You can't do that at all. You can't expect that from a protocol. You can try to reduce them. That also seemed fine until a week or so ago, when we had relatively limited numbers of infections. Even at the first walk up to, say, 100 or 150 a day, we said: we had taken that into account in the enlargement on 1 June and 1 July. But by now, the daily figures are really much higher, so we had to decide last week to take a few additional measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u199	Finalizing, because we clearly don't agree. Of course, you see an increase in the number of positive tests in young people. I've already asked enough questions about that PCR test. Perhaps Mr. De Jonge will answer that later, but it's not that bad that there are some more positive test results in young people. Those young people are not affected at all, so to take such a radical measure I find at least disproportionate. But again, we don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u200	It is true in itself that, on average, young people are less affected by the effects of the virus, but they are equally contagious to others. The great concern that we all have is that the relatively low figures at present, given the rising numbers of infections in intensive care and in hospitals, could increase as young people become more in contact with parents and certainly grandparents or people with vulnerable health. That is one of the reasons why I said with some ferocity in that press conference last week to young people who know themselves that they have not always followed the rules exactly: at least stay away from the elderly and people with vulnerable health in the near future. But you can't force that either. That's what you can ask and then you hope people do, and that's what's gonna happen all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u201	I have Mr Veldman, Mrs Dik-Faber and then Mr Jetten. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u202	If we look together at the number of young people infected and affected, then I understand the concern that the Prime Minister expresses and I share his concern. It is also very wise to look closely at what can and cannot be done. Then the question is, where do you put that responsibility? I am well aware that the cabinet has a responsibility to set a number of general frameworks. That is what we are doing with a number of measures. But I'm making a comparison with what the Prime Minister himself quoted. For example, in football matches, we have assumed responsibility for the security region: look in that region how it develops regionally, see whether or not you can continue to allow audiences or say "we're going to play games without an audience." It is precisely because we see that mayors, presidents of security regions, university administrators and presidents of student associations in recent weeks and months have in some cases drawn up fistful protocols, in line with the RIVM guidelines, that I can imagine that you are also saying: let us look at what can and cannot be done locally, regionally. Students who are now going to study in Rotterdam are really confronted with a different context than students who, for example, are going to study in Enschede, where the image of the whole of Twente is not or hardly contagion. Is the Prime Minister prepared to consult again with the Security Council, for example, and to look at what could be more regional in terms of allowing different types of meetings, both for study associations and sports associations as well as for student associations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u203	It's not that general. Let me be clear about that. The young man or woman from Rotterdam who is going to study in Enschede, can still bring the virus to Enschede with the current infection rates. And the one from Enschede in Rotterdam can be infected and can return to Grandpa and Grandma in Enschede during the weekends. So there are still major or at least significant risks. I am trying to combine what Mr Van Haga just said and what Mr Veldman says. That triggered me for a while. Among these general social and student associations there are, of course, all kinds of sub-organisations that focus specifically on sport. Or perhaps they are focusing specifically on study, although I do not think there is much talk of study there in August. But for once, let them. You could see if there's anything else to come up with then we should discuss that with the Security Council; that is, I believe, Monday again............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Maybe that's possible. But I really am not in favour of leaving it entirely to the security regions in general, because, frankly, there is also a limit to what you can ask of the security regions. We are asking quite a lot of administrators to take responsibility for the policy we, I think, all support, namely to stamp it out regionally. If you have to say "the football matches are more limited in terms of the audience in the stands" and "I decided as mayor because it was left a bit looser in the country, I had to decide to do this too" then at some point you can't go out for a beer yourself somewhere in a café. Most people can handle that; they're not marzipan. But of course you also have to look at where you find the balance. So perhaps that could be another one, I say, trying to combine the two last interruptions: look more specifically at that type and say 'for that kind of sub-union, it can be done in the evening until 10 p.m. and without alcohol'. Maybe that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u204	I can imagine. Of course, I am not asking for large parties and parties to be possible for student associations in full width, as I know from the past. But we also see from student associations that they need moments to present themselves for contact and acquaintance. We know that student associations that used to be more of the parties and parties now provide guidance to first-year students to get through that first year well. Then in the initial phase of the study you will need that contact, that acquaintance of course. So if the Prime Minister, the Cabinet is willing to go along that line with the Security Council again to see if with the protocols that exist and with all the directives that have already been drawn up, there is still room there, then that would be worth a sweet thing to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u205	Once again, if Mr Veldman does not think it is about the whole, about the full width. I would, however, like to combine these last two interruptions to see what you can do about sub-unions that look like study and sports associations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u206	Two preliminary remarks. First of all, I think we agree that the student phase is an incredibly important stage in young people's lives. It is the phase in which you orientate yourself on your future and often the phase in which you meet your future partner. Social contacts are extremely important during that period. I'd just like to mark that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u207	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u208	That doesn't always happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u209	Not always, but many do. At least that happened to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u210	And all in that one month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u211	The second point is that the Prime Minister has called on young people to take on their responsibilities. I think that's good. Now I see that there is a group of young people who have taken responsibility. These are all the boards of student associations that have looked at what they can do for a new set of students to give them a good introduction at the start of their studies. Mr. Chairman. I do not need to repeat it all, but I would very much like to highlight these two points. There has been a search for space by student associations, but also by the security regions and mayors to give it hands and feet in a safe way. There's been an agreement. I have received many emails from all over the country, including from Groningen, but also from other regions. Then I think: here we see that the young people take their responsibility, that they see what is possible within the security limits. The Prime Minister says that we do want to give the study associations and sports associations room for manoeuvre. What makes it so different for student associations? Why don't they get that space when they're doing exactly what the Prime Minister called them to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u212	I notice that the interruptions are getting longer as the debate progresses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u213	But my answers are getting shorter and shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u214	Well, that's disappointing, too, but okay. It doesn't just apply to you, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u215	I share what Mrs Dik-Faber says, but as I said to Mr Van Haga, it is certainly not the case that I say that the students are not responsible. I think they're very responsible, especially the drivers. But leaving the sum of space to a lot of people who take responsibility is that of course there will be much more movement. You can see right now that the numbers are rising among young people. I am not going to repeat that, given the appeal of your or our chairman here today. But referring to that, I'm looking for an opportunity. Just give me the space to see if we can find a parallel between sports and study associations and that type of activity within general student associations. In itself, I appreciate and respect the fact that there are protocols and that good thought has been given. That's right. But the sum total of all these movements is really an increasing risk of infection. We can see at the moment that the figures are too high. I would like to avoid the need at some point to adopt national measures which are much more economically harmful than this type of measure, which is also harmful; I fully agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. So I am looking for something in the spirit of the whole debate to manage the crisis with each other. Perhaps I can do something with the thoughts of Mr Veldman and Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u216	I'm very curious what the Prime Minister will come up with. One final observation, however. I do see here a group of young people taking responsibility, who see: hey, it is our age group in which the number of infections increases. And I see that there are young people who are indeed not so close. I can see that in my own environment, in the countryside, too. Then there is a barn where dozens of young people gather with a multitude of crates of beer. Of that I think: that cannot be the intention. Fortunately, there has also been enforcement. But don't let that last group ruin it for the students who have taken responsibility. We cannot put all young people on the same footing. We really need to look carefully at where the problems are; we need to tackle them and solve them. But we must not let young people who take their responsibilities and really adhere to the protocols experience a beautiful time in their lives in a different way. It would be extremely unfortunate if they were punished by the activities of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u217	It's never been my intention or our intention to punish anyone for what's happening elsewhere. It is purely looking at how, given the rising figures and the concentration of a part of that rise in a certain age category, you can limit the accumulation of risks. That's really the only thing. It's not because other young people don't follow rules, that we'll have to go back to those students... No, please, if we get that, of course we'll all be doing very wrong. So I totally agree with Mrs Dik-Faber. But protocols and so on mean more movement, more contacts, more risks. That is why we have said: let's see if you can focus on sports and study associations. In any case, what I am going to do is to ask Ferd Grapperhaus, on Monday, to take a look with the security regions to see if you can make a specific statement to the general student associations and social associations about those activities which also focus on study and sport, the suggestion from the previous interruptions. But if we're going to do it wider, then we're really taking a risk, because it's just not going well with the numbers. Not specifically with students, I don't blame them, but the numbers aren't doing very well. If it is blamed on the cabinet: you say it's up to society and you don't do anything else, no, it's always a combination, and-and-and, but this is really part of it, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u218	I am pleased that the Prime Minister sees a mouse hole or a goat path to have that conversation again through the Security Council, because student organisations, in my opinion, have a great deal of sympathy for the choice of the cabinet to set up these end times, to ask not to give alcohol in those activities. But they do not understand that the distinction is made between these study and sports associations on the one hand and student associations on the other. Because it's about that soft landing that makes your first year of study an important phase in your life. I would like to give two more things to the Prime Minister for that consultation with the Security Council. I've spoken to a number of mayors of student cities in the last few days. They actually say two things. One, how do I explain to students that my terraces are allowed to be filled with Dutch people until 1:00 a.m., with daylight people from abroad, that everyone can drink alcohol and celebrate a big party there, but that the students can't? And two, how do I prevent as mayor that if my student associations are not allowed to organize anything then all kinds of illegal parties and activities are organized that I have less control over? Then as mayor, I'd rather meet with those student associations along protocols, so they can do it in an orderly manner. I would ask the Prime Minister to include this in the discussions so that we can simply offer beautiful activities for these students in a safe way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u219	I can't do much with that, because that's up to the mayor. Of course, those terraces may be full, but within the rules. I hope that mayor will maintain those rules for the terraces and that he will occasionally check with his enforcement device if that happens. Otherwise it's all like "let's just leave it one, 'cause otherwise..." I don't think that's wise. But I'm gonna explore that mouse hole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u220	Great, because many of those mayors had already agreed on good protocols with the student associations, so this was exactly an example where people were prepared and had made agreements with each other, just as I think we want to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u221	But again, that really is an illusion. You need protocols to see how you adhere to the rules of social distancing and handwashing as best you can, but of course it continues to lead to a accumulation of movements and activities. This accumulation of movements and activities carries the risk. That is, of course, also the discussion we had in April-May. So it's not like I'm questioning those protocols.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u222	In my opinion, this also means: where is the greatest pain and how can you reduce the risks as much as possible? Then I have the idea that it is also a matter of particular concern to certain associations to be able to have introduction activities, to recruit people and to introduce them to a general association because otherwise they will not be given that opportunity and will also be very disadvantaged. So perhaps that can also be taken into account in that consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u223	No. I'm gonna go hard on that: no. I don't think it's wise. We are now seeing how the figures are rising. See how fast that goes. I really do, with all of you, think I've heard about that in your contribution, and I'm very concerned about that. We are now entering the stage where a lot of young people meet in student cities, travelling from all over the country, including from regions such as the West and the Southwest, where there are many infections. Really, don't. I think that's unwise. So I'm going to look for the mouse hole, but I don't agree with Mr Van der Staaij, I really don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u224	I'd almost say, what do you disagree with? 'Cause all I asked is, look where the pain is the biggest. That is what I think is in the need to have certain opportunities to present yourself as an association and to say to young people: join us too. If you completely take away those possibilities, it's hard to reach them later. Apparently, that's still the pain being felt. On the other hand, everyone understands that you should not have all kinds of activities that can once again lead to a lot of risks. What space is simply there? What space is there at local and regional level? That seems reasonable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u225	I have replied to that earlier. There is only so much to ask of the presidents of the security regions in the end. Eventually it is no longer reasonable to have to make you unpopular with every group. We are already asking the presidents of the security regions to take difficult measures, which we used to take nationally, but for very good reasons not anymore, because we are trying to stamp out local and regionalism. Then it's no wonder you're doing this, where that movement takes place all over the country. I do not want to be the strict house-father here who says: this or that is allowed and this or that is not allowed. In the spirit of the debate, I only warn against the risks of stacking movements. I write down: sport, study, sub-unions. Let me add: how can you present yourself to students with minimal risks? Then let me put that in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u226	It is, of course, fantastic that this opening is offered. I would like to make a small comment. In order to get through to these associations, you must of course first become a member of the parent association. If the Prime Minister wants to take that with him in his search for that mouse hole, that would be great. Then my final question is, what time do you come up with that mouse hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u227	Well, now. I just did. We're gonna talk to the security regions about it and see if it can work for them. We'll send letters to the Chamber every day, so there'll be a letter somewhere. That "presenting you" is of course arranged as follows. I mention my extremely nice debate with Mr Van der Staaij on how to present yourself to the students. Then, of course, you will take on board what opportunities there are for sports and study counseling at these associations. Why don't you take that together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u228	I understand that, but it's kind of urgent. It'll hang in a few days. The students are ready. The protocols are ready. Everything's ready. So if you're gonna do a few more weeks about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u229	No, no, Monday's the security meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u230	Monday? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u231	Yeah, I'm gonna see if there's anything to buy there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u232	I think you were working on the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u233	Yes, that is the question about the financial consequences of the emergency package. I'm not gonna read all the numbers I've been given. On Prinsjesdag, of course, more clarity will follow on the completion of the period after 1 October, but this has been promised earlier. There is no overall overview of the cost of the emergency package so far. Then there are a lot of numbers, which I may not read in the light of time. We are not coming up with a new action plan, I say to Mrs Van den Berg. We will come around September 1 with the lessons learned. Maybe that's the same thing. Hugo de Jonge, the Health Minister, will say a little more about that. But we come around September 1 with the lessons learned. In it we look at what measures work and have worked and which have not. Then we will also make sure that we are optimally prepared for anything that can come. We'll inform the Chamber about that. That is also a substantive answer to Mrs van den Berg's question, I think. Finally, on communication: I very much agree with all those who say that this is, of course, very important. We are always trying to tell both the Minister of Health and myself when we talk to the press, but also at all other times, what we know and what we do not know. Based on the data we have, we tell you what decisions we make about what we ask people about behavior. I also mention regional and possible national measures to communicate as effectively as possible. And yes, of course there are all kinds of specialists involved in crisis communication, including the NCTV. Experts from outside are also regularly asked to reflect on this. Mr. Chairman. I have answered all the questions on my part, but I see Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u234	I can imagine that a piece will be included in the lessons learned. But I hope that the communication on how or not we're going to change that remains a few weeks now, while we're confronted every day with people who are anxious and hear strange stories on social media. I really want to ask the cabinet to disprove that and to be much more active on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u235	Yeah, I've got a promise on this one. That's what we're trying to do, but countering the action plan that leads 5G to corona or that's 1.5 meters of bullshit is complicated, other than saying it again here. I very much agree with Mrs van den Berg and I see that, of course, people are also very concerned. She had some beautiful examples from her personal correspondence with people I know very well. So we will. We have to keep looking for moments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u236	Yes, but you've agreed to that now. Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u237	In discussing the action plan, we were concerned with the communication, the organisation of the source and contact research and testing, and the Prime Minister said that Minister De Jonge would return to it, but also to maintain it better. I haven't heard the Prime Minister say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u238	I answered that question about maintaining it. We now see, of course, with the rising figures and the situation in the security regions, that a great deal is happening at the three levels I outlined: 1. Maintain closing down areas and breaking up ramps that shouldn't take place, 2. People with soft hands again point to the code of conduct where that does not clearly happen and if necessary 3. Fine the violation of the code of conduct. On those three levels last week, you're really seeing a huge increase. I have also mentioned many examples where the security regions are on top, in coastal provinces, for example, but also in the North and elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u239	We can see something about the general measures such as closing the area, but the individual approach to people or entrepreneurs is extremely weak. We are very concerned about this. I didn't hear that from the Prime Minister that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u240	Okay, but I was gonna give you that answer. The Security Council is also talking about this on a weekly basis. Given the figures that have been obtained, this urgency is very much felt there. It is also important for the presidents of the security regions to maintain it. This doesn't necessarily mean increasing the number of fines if it has to, it should just point out to people that it's not smart what they're doing. And if necessary, if people don't follow the directions, tickets will be imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u241	Thank you. Then I will give it the floor to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u242	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for our opportunity to discuss a number of important issues. First, I'll give you the answers to everything that has to do with testing and tracking. Then I'll deal with the questions about quarantine and the need for quarantine and then I'll deal with the questions about ventilation in relation to nursing homes and schools. Then I have a few more questions that will be a little more difficult to sort out. So I guess I'll divide the answer up like this. Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with the subject that I think has been the main focus of today in the first term of the Chamber, namely testing and tracing. Of course, we all agree on the importance of this. Since the beginning, we have said that the most important way to keep this virus underneath is to make sure that you have the virus in view. You do this by testing properly and testing as much as possible. The whole capacity has been built up to identify contacts with positive results and to tell the contacts to stay at home and therefore to go into quarantine. In each country, the basis of the approach is testing, tracing and isolating. That is, of course, also the reason why it was extremely unfortunate that Amsterdam told us on Friday that they are no longer able to do that source and contact research in the regular way. First, I would like to outline the background why Amsterdam, and also Rotterdam, had to make that choice temporarily, what we are going to do about it and what appointments I made with the GGD. Maybe I will make a few comments. First of all, I'm going back to Friday. It was incredibly bummer that we were told exactly at that important anchor point of the approach from the biggest fireplaces. I believe that Mrs Marijnissen said that Amsterdam and Rotterdam: we are not getting it all together as it was meant to be. Then you'll find out what the background is. You'll think: we've scaled up the source and contact research considerably, even in capacity. There is also a rural shell, a rural pool, ready. Then what's the background to that and why did this message come so suddenly on that Friday? If you look at the numbers, you'll see what the explanation is. That doesn't make it right yet, but at least you'll see what the explanation is. You will see that they had 40 reports in Amsterdam in the first week of July. In the first week of August, 354 reports were reported. In Rotterdam the same pattern was visible: in the first week of July 97 reports and in the first week of August 682 reports. If you look at when that steady rise has taken place, that rise is very steep in the last week. Both cities have doubled in the last week. It is therefore a steep increase, with a doubling in the last week in particular. In addition, the number of contacts encountered has also increased over time. This in itself makes sense and is to be expected, because people get more contacts when measures are relaxed. That's not so crazy in itself. This isn't being tracked, so I can't name any of those numbers. The reports from the GGDs of Amsterdam and Rotterdam are that the number of contacts is increasing very much. By the way, you don't see this exclusively in those two cities, but I also hear this from other cities. So if you've caught a contagion, then it's safe to say that someone who's already gone out with complaints for a couple of nights or just had a huge family party. The number of contacts is not as clear as one hoped it would be, but sometimes rises to 60, 70, 80 et cetera. Thus, the number of source and contact investigations has increased very much, but the intensity of that source and contact research has also increased very much. When did this happen, in particular? This happened especially in that last week. Then you can still say that we have a rally plan. The basic capacity would be 1,250 FTE in all regions. On top of that, a flexible rural shell would be built. We have discussed this in detail before the summer. I remember that, in response to questions from Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, we had a discussion here on whether the number of hours estimated is sufficient and whether quarantine calls are actually being made. It's so important that people stay in quarantine. In Germany phone calls are made, but not in the Netherlands. It is not yet in the directive. Shouldn't this be changed? On that basis, the number of hours has been increased. We've had all these discussions. There are already 1,250 FTE regionally built. 550 fte were already ready from the rural shell, which can be flexibly scaled up. Those 550 haven't been fully deployed yet. At the moment, too, these 550 have not yet been fully deployed. Then you would say: yes, but then you can immediately put it in Amsterdam and Rotterdam? Yeah, that's what's happening, but the time limit for that also takes time. You have to get people working and there you also need the same people from source and contact research to work these people in a good way. In short, with Amsterdam and Rotterdam, the increase was so steep, both in the number of source and contact studies and in the number of contacts that were there, that it did not succeed, other than by saying: we are going to design that source and contact research in a risk-oriented way. What's that risk-focused thing? That's not saying: we're not doing it in part anymore. That is a misunderstanding that has arisen. The source and contact research is just happening to everyone. However, it is said: in particular the risk contacts, the cluster infections, for example, or the vulnerable people, we do ourselves and the people who should be able to call their own contacts, we ask to call their own contacts. The Prime Minister said that, on its own, this is not unusual and that it happens more often. It is done in conjunction with RIVM in the context of "if it can't be done as it should, it has to be done as it can." That's not the point and not what you want. That's why I agreed with Amsterdam and Rotterdam: back to normal as soon as possible.That's important and just tell me what support you need. Of course, that is the accelerated deployment of the flexible shell, the 400 employees who were still in it and who can get to work. Of course, the use of this has to be reduced, so that takes a while. So back to normal for Amsterdam and Rotterdam as soon as possible. That's one. Two is: yes, but it seems that this restructuring plan has not been able to prevent us from getting into this situation. We have to face that. In any case, the scale-up plan must be speeded up, i.e. a doubling of 550 to a small 1,100, 1,050, within a few weeks and a doubling to 2,000. That's really gonna have to be picked up faster. But even so, I say yes, but the starting points that were under that plan must be kept under review again. Of course we knew that. The plan was made before we started testing everyone on the basis of the assumptions that were underneath it on the basis of the practice. You can see that the practice has evolved differently. The number of contacts people have is, on average, really higher than estimated. The number of tests is much lower than estimated. In the number of positive test results you see huge regional differences, from very low to very high. This means that we need to keep the principles on which that plan is based under review. I'd like to take two weeks before I inform the Chamber about that. I've asked the GGD to come to me as soon as possible with their recovery plan. I would like to take two weeks with the GGD to ensure that the acceleration of the recovery plan and its adaptation are with the Chamber as well as possible and as quickly as possible. Then we can discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u244	I see a number of Members of Parliament, but I would like to suggest that we complete the testing and tracing section first. Or are you ready yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u245	I do have some individual questions, but I do think I have answered a serious part of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u246	I understand. A number of Members of Parliament are running out of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u247	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u248	I would nevertheless like to give the opportunity to discuss the issues that concern everyone well. That's why I'm asking. If you answer the questions right, the rest will have an opportunity to say something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u249	Yes. I'll do that soon, and I might get a few things together, too. First of all, Mr Jetten's question: has there been an error of assessment? I think that's too hard for me. It is true that reality has developed in a different way than the assumptions made in May in preparation for the situation of 1 June, in which everyone could be tested. Of course, we all didn't know exactly how that would go. At the time, I asked RIVM what was the assessment of the number of tests you will have to take when you say that everyone can get tested. An estimate has been made of the number of people with respiratory complaints: 30,000. How many are positive then? Well, for 2%, you have to be able to absorb that in each region and for 5% you have to build a country-wide flexible shell. That's how those assumptions were made. There was an assumption about the number of hours you need per source and contact research. Of course, we knew that it had to be re-evaluated. This is also stated in the introduction to the GDD plan. It says that it would be used for the period June to September and would then be reviewed. Turns out that's something else, which makes me think you need to scale up in a different way. The steepness of the development in one week means that you must be able to use your flexible peel much faster. Or maybe you need to have a much higher level of preparedness in each region, where there is, on purpose, a lot of overcapacity per region. Maybe that's the way to do it. I really want to take a moment with the support of the GGD and the military and medical planners of Defense to see how we can do that as best we can. I believe that the flexible scaling-up in this respect has not been enough to avoid Amsterdam's problem. Flexible capacity exists, but the speed at which it can be deployed does not meet the speed at which the increase can occur in a region. This means that the flexible restructuring plan must work in a better way. That also means we have to recalibrate it as far as I'm concerned. Once again, I shall return to that point in the direction of the Chamber. Mr Azarkan asks whether this can be done in two days' time. I don't think so, at least not if you want a good plan. That's gonna take a while. I'll ask myself at the end of the week. Then, of course, it takes time to really go through that and check it out. If it can be in the direction of your Chamber in the middle of next week, I will not fail to do so. I really need to take a moment to assess that in the best possible way. The SGP points out that it is not just about the source and contact research, but sometimes about the time in which the result is in, or the time between making an appointment and the actual appointment. The time lag in between is sometimes not quite in line with the two times 24 hours we want. That's right. These are often temporary problems, which also have regional causes. Sometimes they have to deal with the rapid design of a new test street, or with the transfer of a sample stream to another laboratory. There are all kinds of issues behind that. The steering on that should be better. That is also why CoronIT, the specially developed IT system, is being adapted to this point. That adjustment will take place on 1 September. Until then, we'll try to solve what's going on as quickly as possible. Today the web portal of the GGD went live. This allows you to make your own digital appointment as soon as possible, so that you do not have to do so by phone. You can also get your negative test result back as soon as possible, so you are not dependent on the call you get. On the other hand, this naturally frees telephone capacity, which can be used in a different way. In short, this process is being improved step by step. Indicators are used throughout the process. That was a question from Mr Veldman in the last debate before the summer, I believe. It was even a motion by Mr Veldman. We then took that direction in the direction of the GGD, or the GGDs themselves took it in the direction of their own regional organizations. I'm just trying to see if that's all I've had. Mr Asscher asked a question about the more accessible testing. That is indeed necessary. It's impressive what the GGDs now have to do with test streets and test capacity. Of course, that capacity is much larger than it was in the beginning. They started on April 6th. Meanwhile, they are able to run a thick 100,000 tests per week. There are 105 test streets across the country. Of course it started very small and is now much bigger. Mobile testing and home collection are also regulated. And yet, and yet, and yet: it can be even more low-threshold. You don't just have to tell people to get tested, but you also have to remove the thresholds to get tested. So it has to be and it can be even more low-threshold. We're working on that. We do this together with all the parties that need to be involved. Among other things with the Patient Federation we try to see how it can be more easily accessible. Then there is Mrs van den Berg's question, no by Mr Veldman. His question is whether sufficient use is being made of non-GMDs. That answer is certainly yes. The first-line laboratories, but also the first-line collection normally used by the general practitioners, are now fully used in the test collection. This applies, for example, to Star-shl in Rotterdam and to Saltro in Utrecht. But also at the test street at Schiphol Airport, there will be cooperation with commercial parties because this will result in additional manpower and additional lab capacity. In the meantime, this cooperation is being sought out, also because it is simply necessary. Then where it's about the rural peel. You have the national call center, a commercial party with which agreements have been made and who is able to make all those appointments and so on. They also call in the negatives. In addition, you have the rural peel. It was set up together with the alarm stations and the Red Cross. These are the two cooperation partners with which the national BCO-shell is set up. In addition, the GGDs hire their own people to put the BCO capacity in order. In short, both the hiring of staff and the cooperation with market players is done and tried out. As a result of the reports of the last few days, a lot of offers are coming in. Sometimes very ienimienia: one, two or three employees, of a company that, for example, does not have much to do, which should be used for source and contact research. Sometimes a little bigger, for example from call centres that offer their services. All offers from outside are of course considered seriously: can you do something with them and could it contribute to closing the deficit? At the same time, this is an answer to Mrs Van den Berg's question on the use of defence. Of course, defense isn't a magic tool. What Defense can do is accelerate the setup of the rampage plan. That's what the D.O.D. can do. The training itself will really have to be done by the people who are now doing source and contact research. That is the difficult dilemma: you can speed it up, but if you speed it up too much, you can't do it anymore because you also need those people for the source and contact research that has to be done. So there's a limit to it. But there is much more to be done in this acceleration and all these possibilities must be exploited. I think I have answered the questions as they have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u250	I have then referred to Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Veldman, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol and Mrs Sazias. Mrs. Marijnissen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u251	I do find it very worrying what the Minister is saying here. Basically, he admits that the source and contact research isn't in order, that he also hates it and that he asks him to give him two weeks to get that right. Of course, we also want it to be put in place as quickly as possible. But does he realise that this is a matter of confidence in the approach of this minister and the cabinet in terms of source and contact research, precisely because it is the basis for tackling the virus? But also because, in the debate on 20 May, almost three months ago, we asked how the GDPS was scaled up. At that time the Minister said repeatedly that we have carte blanche and that we have to do what is necessary and that we have to accept the people who are needed. There is no financial restriction to do the things that are important from the point of view of content. So the source and contact research is considerably scaled up. So that was 20 May and the promise was then to go to 2,400 full-time employees, a total of 3,200 full-time employees. What's the difference between May 20th and now? I hear the Minister say exactly the same thing now. I hear him again over a carte blanche and over scale, only the 2,400 hours have fallen; that becomes 2,000. I hear the Minister saying exactly the same thing. Why should we still have faith in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u252	It is good to say that 1,800 fte has been realized: 1,250 at the GGD regional and 550 in the rural shell. The need to achieve a highly scaled BCO is no different than in May, but it is exactly the same. The assessment of what needs to be done has, of course, changed, just on the basis of practice. That makes sense, I guess. The plan was made in a situation where the experience wasn't yet how it works when you ask everyone to get tested. It depends very much on the level of infection how many people you need, how much source and contact research you need to do. In itself, that makes sense. In a normal policy process, you do execution tests in advance. Well, sorry, there's no time for that at this time. So what you're doing is making a plan based on the best estimates. You're just gonna get to work. And in the course of the approach, you adjust that plan. I share Mrs Marijnissen's concern. Where's my concern? Of course, the scale-up plan has a flexible scale when it comes to that rural shell. But you are at the speed with which it is ready and usable, in a situation such as in Amsterdam, where you can see a very steep increase in one week, not only in the number of positive results, but also in the number of contacts involved in such an infected patient. There, the intensity has increased so much that the GGD Amsterdam has felt compelled to say of some of those contacts: we make a list of people you encounter, but we ask you to inform them yourself. That is not insurmountable, but it is certainly not ideal. It also shows the vulnerability of the recovery plan in a situation with a very steep increase. So I said: Rotterdam and Amsterdam must be in order as soon as possible, but we will also have to look at that upcoming plan. That will have to be accelerated. With those numbers indeed, but then accelerated and brought forward. The state of preparedness needs to be raised and I think we need to re-examine the starting points. Now the GGD itself had said so and intended to do so, because we did not know how that would happen in June. So it has been said that in the period June to September we are going to try this plan and that plan will have to be reviewed. That is what needs to be accelerated now. That's gonna take a while. In the coming week, I will give the GD the chance to keep that plan under review and to provide me with an accelerated recovery plan. And that carte blanche: yes, of course I said it, because I think this is such a crucial approach! That's what I've said from the start. The GGDs are very economical, but economy must not be leading here. On the contrary: spend what you need to do what is needed. This is not a financial issue. It is a question of implementation. How fast can you scale up if that's the reason? There's a limit to how fast you can do that, but it's not a financial issue, and it really shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u253	The Minister is going to explain again why this research on sources and contact is more difficult than perhaps had been estimated in advance, but the point is, of course, that can always happen. The point is that we were here on 20 May and we were promised that the finalisation plan would be in order by the end of the week. Repeat: 2,400 full-time people. We are now about three months away and it is still not in order and we see the consequences. That is why I ask the Minister how he thinks we can still have confidence in this. He asks us: "give me some time, I'm gonna talk to the GGDs again, there's gonna be an accelerated recovery plan," but what we see in practice is that vacancies are coming along and that minimum wage is being paid. The Minister says that finance should not play a role. Then a question of mine is: why do we pay those people so little when we need them so much? We hear the foreman of the GGD say, "We just send some people home, or else they're gonna turn their thumbs." While they're desperately needed now! It was less than a month since he said that. I think that the Minister should be more clear on how this could have happened before he can ask us for confidence and get it to be settled in two weeks' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u254	I get that. I understand that very well. I understand very well that you are asking this question in this way, and that is why I am quite honest with you about how we have worked on this scaling up; so the local or regional scale, per GGD. The preparedness per GGD has been considerably expanded, greatly expanded. Normally that's in peacetime, say 250 BCOs all over the country. By now, that's 1,250 in these GGD regions. A huge achievement! The national capacity, the national pool now consists of 550 fte. This is quite considerable, also in relation to the national number of source and contact studies to be carried out. Where did it go wrong? That's what I'm trying to explain; where it went wrong in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. That is the very rapid increase in both the number of positive infected people and the number of contacts involved. That was where it went wrong, and so you can see that the rampage plan and the parameters that were underneath do not really fit well with the situation that may arise, namely such a very rapid increase. Then you'd say, on the total numbers, I thought you'd have succeeded. Yeah, yeah, yeah, But it is about preparedness, preparedness in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. It just takes a while before you have settled that those people from the rural flexible skin can also get to work on the spot. It also has to do with not having to deal with that alone. If you still have to train people, you have to do that education on the job. That was the delay we talked about earlier; I thought it was even before the summer. There was also one later debate in which we talked about this. I thought Mr Asscher asked a question on this at the time, and I think we discussed it at that time. The number of infections was, of course, much lower at the beginning of the summer than was thought. This also means that this has delayed the number of people you can train. I think Mr Asscher asked at the time whether you could not ensure that these people had something useful to do in the meantime. That's what happened. Only, in that context, it didn't make sense to set up more people than the 550. At the same time, when I looked at Amsterdam and Rotterdam last Friday, I had to observe that this is not the way in which the plan had to work. That's why I was so upset about that, and that's why it has to be better. The only thing I can do to give you the confidence that it is going better is to explain what the background is. That's what I've just done. That's one. It should be better able to achieve the state of preparedness needed in those cities. And it needs to be recalibrated when it comes to the numbers that were underneath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u255	Good. Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u256	Finally, Mr President. I find it very worrying, because, as I have said, it is the basis of our approach. This can't go wrong. It just can't go wrong, and it's gonna go wrong, and how. We're not even in that second wave yet. In fact, it was said in the press conference that we are still a long way from achieving this. Nevertheless, we see in places that the source and contact research needs to be released. I hear the Minister says: yes, we have already scaled up, but those people are not fast enough in that place. But at the same time you can see that that pool is not really sufficiently expanded. That's one. That could have been more, and that should have been more. That was the promise. Two. In this so-called preparedness, I think "organize it." If you're gonna have more people, it's gonna be easier to solve. I note here that this is not something of afterlife. No, it's something we agreed to meet here in the Chamber at least three months ago. It's a promise that's been made. I find it very worrying that it is not being implemented now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u257	Yes, Mr. Young? You may respond to this. Otherwise I shall give the floor to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u258	I didn't really hear a new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u259	The Minister is upset and states that it has not been achieved and that the scaling-up of the country's flexible skin will take longer. What's really going on? In mid-May, the plan was sent to the Chamber, which was based on between 600 and 2,400 source and contact surveys per day. There was a headline above: "The GGDs can perform 2,400 source and contact surveys per day from June to September." And if you look at reality now, you can't. If it didn't work now on 1 June, that's until then. But now it's mid-August and it doesn't work. So the conclusion is that people have been surprised. And if there was one thing we shouldn't have, after March, when we saw how fast those doublings were going, it was that we would be surprised. Well, that happened, so it's about what we're gonna do about it. And then the Minister says: it wasn't an error of assessment; reality didn't stick to our assessment. Well, that's not gonna work. We really need to be a little louder about that. The SP, the Labour Party and all kinds of other parties have asked to give people a good contract. Make sure you have a buffer. Get ready: they're relaxing. There's gonna be new cases, and that source and contact research is our most important protection. And at the slightest, the day after the Prime Minister's press conference, it doesn't work. That is not a question of more efficient regulation. That is not a question of "reality did not stick to our assessment" for a moment. It just didn't happen what the minister should have arranged. Then it begins with the fact that he says: "We have made an error in the number of hours, in the number of people and in the organisation of these. So we're gonna change that. So we're gonna do better."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u260	Yes. The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u261	But don't blame people for suddenly having more contacts in Amsterdam. That's an opportunity argument. It was supposed to be in order. My question to the Minister is what he did in the summer. 'Cause the signal wasn't from last Friday, but it came a long time ago. Then the G.D.D.s said, "Hey, we're gonna be under pressure." What did he do when the president of the GGDs said: I believe I'm going to scale, because people are starting to get bored? What did he do to keep us from standing here like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u262	What is important is that we share the importance of the source and contact research. We also share the importance of flexibly scaling up a pool of employees who can do that source and contact research at the time of an increase. Even if there is a rapid rise, you must be equipped for that. That didn't work out the scale-up plan we're dealing with right now. So I guess we don't disagree on that point. I responded to the suggestion that the numbers at the time were really an error of assessment. Yes, of course, I'd almost like to say. You don't know how much time you need in advance. I seem to recall that we had a debate on those five hours and the question whether that would be enough. No, it's been said. That turned out to be eight o'clock. That was one of the changes compared to the plan you are now quoting. Of course, reality has not been entirely in line with our plan. That's what you experience more often in our work, that reality doesn't exactly follow our plan. That in itself is not so bad and that implementation is complicated is not so bad either. That sometimes mistakes are made, that's not so bad either. What I am most concerned about, and therefore what I am concerned about, is that we have not sufficiently satisfied ourselves, the GDs themselves and I, therefore, as responsible for the approach as a whole, that the scale-up should not be so much in absolute numbers as it should, in itself, be sufficient for the work that is now in place, but in its speed and readiness to do so, has not been adequate for the situation that has taken place. You say it wasn't from the last week. Yeah, it was from the last week. Not that the GGDs occasionally squeak and crack under everything they have to do, of course not. That is something that has been going on for a long time and will remain so, because we are asking incredibly much of the GGD's and there is incredibly hard work. It's just a lot. But that very rapid increase in both the number of infections and the number of contacts is indeed from the last week. The Amsterdam figures and the Rotterdam figures in the last week alone doubled compared to the week before. I didn't know that because of this, I was also uncomfortablely surprised by the choice that Amsterdam felt obliged to make, namely saying: we're not going to call all the contacts anymore, but we're asking the index patient to call some of the contacts themselves. Of course, that's an unpleasant surprise, also because you'll find that the rampage plan didn't work with the speed it should have worked with. That's not good, and I didn't check that out in advance. Of course, I blame myself for that. That is also why I have not only said to Amsterdam and Rotterdam that they need to be put in order as soon as possible, but also that not only should the upcoming plan be speeded up in its implementation and its readiness increased. It is also necessary to review the principles on which we based that plan at the time. Because apparently, reality is not happening according to our plan. That is what we can at least say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u263	We know that if there is a reproduction factor of 1.3 the number of infections doubles in a week and that if that happens a few times, those numbers become very large. That's hard to deal with, but we had already seen it in March. So I do not think that is an excuse in this case. The minister was warned that the estimates were too optimistic. The Minister was warned that we were abandoning international standards. The minister was warned that if you start working with call contracts, there is too little existing preparedness of people. And yet it happened. He does now acknowledge that he is responsible for this, so I would like to move on to how we will avoid this kind of error of assessment in the future. My request to the Minister is to confirm that we are going to see how they are doing in Germany, where they have a staff standard that has just been widely chosen. It has been said: 'I would rather have too many people than too few', rather than on his Dutch, what it has become, precisely steer and hope that it does not multiply so quickly. In other words, learn from this error of assessment and get on the safe side for the next few weeks to get that virus under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u264	One of the questions I asked the GGD is: review the starting points on which the plan is based. Mr Asscher is now saying: could you not look at Germany and how it has been done there? I would like to do that, but I will make two comments. One is: a standard has been chosen in relation to population size. At least that is what has been done in a number of Länder, because I do not think this is a German standard. You can make that choice, but I don't think it's so crazy that you choose a standard in relation to the number of BCOs you're going to have to do on the basis of an assumption of the number of infections. I'm fine with that in itself. I think it's about the outcome of that sum, which is to make sure you have enough people. Secondly, I think it is about the preparedness of those people. You have to make sure you can use them fast enough. That's the point. So I'm gonna give you this suggestion, but I'm not saying that should be the outcome. What I'm saying is that we just need to step up our preparedness. I think we share that. The speed with which you can deploy these people, that flexible shell, that rural pool, just needs to grow. Let me just say a few words about the numbers. Yeah, of course you know the numbers are up. By the way, they are not exponential, but linear. You can see that in the past few weeks. But those are the national numbers. We see that the distribution across the country is rather disproportionate: it is mainly Rotterdam and a good second is Amsterdam. And that's where you saw those two developments I mentioned. There was a very steep rise, namely a doubling in a week. By the way, that is different from the rest of the country. And the second development is that increase in the number of contacts. And that makes the situation in Amsterdam and Rotterdam so different. So it's not so much the totals of the numbers. You could do the number of BCOs on your own with the number of people available. But the concentration of BCOs in Amsterdam and Rotterdam makes it problematic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u265	I can imagine what the Minister says, namely that sometimes things are going very fast. But the question is whether you're prepared for that or not. We already knew this is an infectious disease that increases exponentially if there are more infections. So the disease also results very quickly in a lot more people who want to be tested and tested, and many more people in whom source and contact research should take place. In his response to all the interruptions that are taking place, I hear the minister say above all: the GGD, the GGD, the GGD. I am convinced that everyone at the GGD is now working very hard, in those test streets and for that source and contact research. At the same time we see that the GGD does not have the organizational as such in order now, whereas it has to be. In my first term I said: there are more organisations in this country that can do this work. The Minister replied by saying: yes, there is now contact. When I used to say to my father that I was "in the meantime" working on something, I knew that the twist was close to my ears, because then I actually said to him: I just started it when I could and should have been much earlier. There are even more organisations that can be deployed than the first-line diagnostic centres. There are other laboratories, commercial laboratories united in Fenelab. I think Fenelab has 90 members. But one of them was contracted by the RIVM. I get e-mails from former police officers saying: we are used to talking to people and we want to make our contribution for free and for nothing, so engage us. I would like to hear from the Minister that he can guarantee us that he will not only put things in order, but that he will also look wider than just the GGD. He should not initially look at Defence, but at everything we have for this work, just in the Netherlands. Everything we have needs to be deployed so we can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u266	I agree with Mr Veldman on his own, but they are different disciplines or different tasks that you then ask someone else. What you can ask a first-line health club or a first-line lab is in particular the test take. You can take care of that over there. GGDs have a problem with scaling up quickly enough, but especially with sufficiently fine-tuning the number of reduction locations. That is exactly what I said to Mr Asscher. Of course, not everyone is used to large test streets, and the GGD actually does that very well, given the speed with which it is scaled up. But it is mainly about the question: is it possible to do so as quickly as possible around the corner, in people's homes? For example, a Star in Rotterdam is a great club, as is Saltro in Utrecht. And so you have these type of first-line labs all over the country that can do that very well. They also often work for general practitioners. By the way, they are always limited in their possibilities, so that is not endless. But those appointments are also made. It's not a first contact, but those appointments are made. It will not be the case everywhere and I am happy to bring that to the attention of the House. In addition, you have the contract that the GGD has with all the emergency power stations together, which are very scalable, and the Red Cross. Those are the basic contract partners. A lot of volunteers can be added, for example police volunteers. That's what we talked to. They would also initially be one of the contracting partners. That didn't happen later, but maybe it's worth it again. This is how I hear more and more offers in the last few days. I think it's very important to look at what you can get out of it, because the G.D.D. can never do it on its own. You can't just take a can of staff from somewhere and open it. So if you can do it with a big club that has power, it's great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u267	If this had been the first conversation we had had with the Minister about making sure it was in order, I would say: nice. Only, the thing is, it's not the first time we've talked about this subject with each other. Now I hear the Minister himself say about a number of examples 'it would be nice' and'maybe it is an idea'. That doesn't reflect the urgency that needs to be there. I would really like to call on the Minister to make sure now with haste that this axis we speak is just arranged, rather than saying that it can be reviewed at a later date and that we will later...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u268	No, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u269	...can still scale up. That flexible shell around it shouldn't just be at the GD. All those other partners, you just have to have them available in that shell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u270	Yeah, once. This flexible shell needs to be scaled up and scaled up more quickly. That requires more people and so we will need all those offers. No misunderstanding about the urgency of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u271	We have been on this subject for a long time, but I am moving forward because I am not at all reassured. The minister pretends that exponential growth in Amsterdam and Rotterdam was only visible in the last week, but that is of course not entirely true. At the beginning of July, we had 50 infections. About ten days later that became 100. Ten more days later, it was 200. That was precisely the time when my group felt it necessary to request a debate, because we saw that exponential growth had started again. What has the Minister done recently, so from the beginning of July, when we saw that exponential growth in the Netherlands, to ensure that there was sufficient capacity at the GGDs? If he promises to get better now, that's the second question. What's he gonna do other than what he's done over the past few months? That is not clear to me at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u272	Let's talk about the degree of exponentiality. It hasn't been exponential growth in the past week. It's been more of a linear growth in the past few weeks. Where was the exponentiality? It was in Amsterdam and Rotterdam in the last week, because that was about doubling the number of infected people. If that were all alone, it would have been up to now. But besides that, it was about the number of contacts people had. Especially in Rotterdam it became really problematic in the student corner, also in Amsterdam. Where it was a single outbreak, in the other regions it was very successful in getting such a few outbreaks under way again, for example in Goes. That was a pretty big one. It's gotten back under with support from nationwide capacity. Where didn't it work? Especially in Rotterdam and Amsterdam. That's where you saw that doubling in the last week. That doubling's really from the last week. You saw the rise in the weeks before. So the strongest rise is really in the last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u273	Yes. Mr. Klaver. Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u274	Whatever the case, I think the question is: what would you do differently with the knowledge of today or with last Friday's experience? I think I have just explained this in the direction of Mr Asscher. The thing that bugs me the most is that the way that rally plan works doesn't seem to be that state of preparedness and that speed of intervention that you do need. Because that can happen, as in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, is not so exceptional that you should not be prepared for it. But the speed with which you use that rural shell should really go up. At all events, the assumptions that were made at the time in May with regard to the source and contact research must be reviewed. Then the question is, what else am I gonna do? One, I'm going to take care of with the GGD's of course I can't do that just because there's an acceleration in that rampage plan. Two: I want to make sure that we also take into account the principles of the plan, so it is about the assumptions that lie underneath it, and it is also about the experiences of recent times, especially last Friday. In this way, we will ensure that there is a plan that is fit for the job, fit for the scaling up that appears to be necessary, and that also reflects regional differences and the speed with which the rate of infection can develop. That's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u275	Let there be no misunderstanding: from my group there is full 100% support for the difficult task facing this cabinet, which we all stand for. But I can tell by myself, and also by others, that the confidence that it is going to be really good with the source and contact research is fragile. This has to do with the fact that the Minister needs a lot of words to indicate what has actually gone wrong: errors of assessment have been made. I would point out that there has indeed been an exponential increase in infections since the beginning of July. That's just true; we're not sitting on those high numbers for nothing. Three more, four more doubles and we have more infections than we had in the spring. The question of what has happened over the past few weeks is not answered. That frightens me. At the beginning of July we knew that we would be in a scenario of a lot of infections and that we should do a lot of source and contact research. We knew: there are a lot of contacts, and that also means something for the number of hours needed in such an investigation. The Minister refuses to accept that. That worries me. It means that a mistake has been made. There was no intervention in July, when it was still possible. Then it is said that we must ensure that there is a plan that does work. Yes, I hope the Minister says that he doesn't come here with the words: I'm going to make a plan that doesn't work. I don't see what's different from what he's said in the last few months. I would like him to say: we just missed the boat; in July we did not do enough to scale up. I respect it if the Minister said so. It happens. It wasn't supposed to happen, but it could. But I notice to myself that it's turning around "we've been mugged in the last week." If in a crisis like this, faced with a reality you'd like to see differently, you're going to say "in that last week we're really surprised," I say: that's really bullshit. From the beginning of July we see that rise. I would like the Minister to acknowledge that action could have been taken earlier and that this has not been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u276	No misunderstanding: of course we will see that increase from the beginning of July. This increase continues from week to week. I merely underline that the increase in the number of infected persons for which a source and contact study had to be carried out has been the strongest doubling in Amsterdam and Rotterdam in the last week. That's one. Two. Of course you heard stories from the GGD's earlier that they sometimes had a lot of contacts. Of course it's true. But the number of stories we've heard about that is definitely from the last few weeks. Don't let me get involved on that one last week. I say, from the last few weeks. I don't think we disagree. I think I have just pointed it out in all honesty in the direction of Mr Asscher: the upcoming plan that there was, and that there is, does not correspond to the way in which the rate of infection can occur in a region. When it comes to total numbers, you should actually just come true. The sum of the 1,250 and 550 should simply be sufficient in the total numbers for the number of source and contact studies. But that flexible shell is apparently not sufficiently fast to deploy in such a region. That's what's not right about it. I also said to Mr Asscher in all honesty just now that I think I should have made sure that that was possible. Of course I'm to blame for that. I'm at everything that's going on in this crisis. Implementing issues can always surprise you; it can always be disappointing in the execution. But I wish I'd been ahead of this. So I was very unpleasantly surprised last Friday, absolutely. Of course, this is not what you want to do for the GGD itself, and for the Chamber and for me, of course, it is equally true because source and contact research is an important benchmark. And so there must be an adjustment to the restructuring plan that gives us the confidence that we are up to that rapid increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u277	I'm getting the impression that we're chasing the facts. At the beginning of the crisis, I can imagine that happening, but we are a lot further. People want speed. People want a test quickly and also a rash quickly. Now there is a Dutch invention, which has been in the news for a day or two, conceived by TU Eindhoven and Catharina Hospital there: with an algorithm one can see from the blood whether it is plausible, very likely, that someone is infected with corona. Has the Minister immediately travelled to Eindhoven to see what's going on there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u278	I didn't travel to Eindhoven immediately, but if the question is whether innovative test methods are being looked at, then the answer is, of course, "yes," if only because there is a finite amount of PCR tests that are the tests that we now have that you can process. So you'll need innovative methods. For example, the breath test is common. That's another quick test. A rapid test is also in use in the United Kingdom. You have to always look at this and for that I really have to sail on the judgment of the RIVM test if such a quick test is sufficiently reliable for the purpose for which you use it. In the current test situation, the situation at the moment, all rapid tests are insufficiently reliable. That is precisely the criticism in the United Kingdom, where a little too much confidence is attached to the outcome of such a rapid test. When could it be? Imagine a few months ahead of time and that we would now test asymptomaticly, for example in the case of returning travellers. You could even do that twice, once at the time they enter and a second time after day X, to be able to say from that moment, if there is twice a negative test: you are free to go and you no longer need to keep your quarantine. Let's say it's true. In that case, you might as well do the first of those two tests with such a quick test. To be honest, I also expect rapid tests to improve over a number of months in such a way as to improve their reliability. However, I do take the advice of the experts to see whether the reliability is adequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u279	I'd advise the Minister to take a look at that. This test results after 45 minutes. No test is 100% reliable. But I still have to think of the criticism we heard yesterday from Mr Van Dissel, who said: this whole crisis is controlled by the reversing mirror. When does this minister turn on the headlights?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u280	Well, that's not so much about this minister. It's just not always predictable how things are going. You do see some things in the rearview mirror. There is, of course, a dashboard in development, with which you try to pick up the signals that are there as early as possible. Hence, for example, the sewer water surveillance. The Netherlands really is a forerunner in that, also internationally. We are going to extend it as much as possible, precisely for the reason Mr Krol calls it, namely to get the virus in the picture as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u281	Then I'll go to Mrs. Sazias and then to Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u282	It is clear that we all think that it is of the utmost importance that we have the number of source and contact researchers on a scale. My first question is: are people also being deployed from regions where there are no crowds? Are they used in the busy regions, for example? I would also very much like to answer the question that I have asked: does the Minister consider the payment to be in line with the job demands that are being made? Does he think that, with such an honor, people are coming in hard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u283	The answer to the first question is yes. This exchange between regions is being carried out in full. The answer to the second question is that I will give that point of attention to the GDPs. They, of course, make the conditions of employment themselves. I think they will also be linked to the conditions of employment which apply, for example, to the employees who are already in service. I don't have that ready right now, so I just need to hand it over to the G.D.D.s. In my view, the underlying suggestion of your question is to see if there is not a bit too thin in surgery. I think that is the suggestion of your question. I'll take that question to the G.D.D.'s.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u284	That's more than a suggestion, because if you look at the function requirements, you can see that that's just way too sour. Presumably he's in a commercial contractor put in between. Maybe there's a lot of money in there. I'd like to know, because that money has to go to those employees we really need. They shouldn't be cut off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u285	I get that. I'll take this with me to the G.D.D.'s to see if they don't have too much economical surgery here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u286	He's taking it. I wonder when we'll get something back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u287	That is what you get at the moment we are talking about the scaling up of the source and contact research. I just need a couple of weeks to make that plan with the GGD in a good way, and then I'll come back to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u288	In the meantime, I think we have talked a lot about the organisation in this debate. At least from the CDA it's nice that the DOD is also involved to further shape that organization. We have also talked about the scaling-up, but I do not think I have heard the Minister yet about the level. We see a lot of ads asking for HBOs. 70% of the people in this country have an MBO level. In all other areas of care and in other sectors, they do a fantastic job. So why do we see so many HBO ads?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u289	I would also like to take this with me, but the background to it is that a doctor is simply responsible for the source and contact research. In preparing that job profile, therefore, an expert team of izb doctors, i.e. infectious disease control doctors, and nurses, was consulted. It has come out that an HBO level is really in line with the job needs. I honestly think that part of the profits can be booked in a more detailed breakdown of that work process. That is also being looked at at the moment, in which you indeed leave the really difficult side of the source and contact research to Hbo'ers. Because it really is a very specific job, under the auspices of an izb-doctor, because it has to give its approval. That's just the way it is; it's really a medical operation. But, for example, re-calling contacts is not necessarily an HBO task. So maybe you could do that in a combined team and maybe that could also offer more space. If you'll allow me to take your suggestion that way, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u290	Yes, very much, because we see, of course, in several places, also in the care, that there is a doctor's responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u291	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u292	Since we've all been talking about testing, I was wondering if we'd get another answer. I just heard the minister say that maybe if we're a few months away, we can test asymptomatic. As far as the CDA is concerned, every traveller from the risk area is simply now subject to mandatory testing upon entry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u293	No, I responded to Mr Krol, who asked: wouldn't you also use quick tests? The rapid tests are not yet sufficiently reliable for the current test work we are doing. Suppose you have designed asymptomatic travelers so that you test both at entry and a second time to see if there really is no infection, and that you say in two negative tests: from this moment on, the quarantine can stop. If you've passed it that way, then of course you could do that first test at a slightly less reliable level, then that's not such a point. And anyway, with regard to asymptomatic testing, there are a number of groups that I would like to have asymptomatic testing. The OMT advises on this. I think I'll get that advice by the end of the week. The first group are indeed those travelers. Well, I don't necessarily think I'm going to do that twice already, because that would be very helpful: if you left first against the advice in an orange plane, you'll come back, you'll get another test twice because you can then shorten your quarantine. I don't think we should do that first. I'd like to test that asymptomatic. This will start next Friday at Schiphol Airport in the test street, first in small, and it will be scaled up as quickly as possible. That's one thing. The second is the group that emerges as contact from the source and contact research. For that, too, I think you can speed that up. However, the RIVM has advised that in order for that to be really sufficiently effective, that the RIVM also presented yesterday should accelerate the whole testing process. There is still too much time running around with complaints before people actually get tested and after that the testing process too often takes too long. So you need to shorten the whole test process. Then also asymptomatic testing of contacts makes sense. The OMT will advise on how to do exactly that. A third group is the group that emerges from the app. Also, asymptomatic testing makes sense. You could say, for example, testing from day seven. We are going to try this in the regions where we are going to try this app in practice for the first time, namely the East Netherlands: in Twente and Drenthe and with other GGDs in the East Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u294	I am pleased to hear the Minister say: I want that 3.7-day period that takes on average for people to be tested to be reduced and the testing process itself to be speeded up. But do I understand now that the Minister says "I'm not going to reward people who come from a risk area with a test" when we at the CDA have just argued that there should be mandatory testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u295	I'll come back to the mandatory testing. Those people are being tested, of course they are. But that's not lifting the quarantine. That's the point. So they will be tested, just when they come in. That's asymptomatic, sure. There's just not the link to the second test, too, to shorten the quarantine. Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u296	I shall continue on Mrs van den Berg's final point. I am glad that the Minister says he wants to test as much asymptomatic as possible, but does not want to reward the travellers. Of course, there are a lot of travellers who have chosen to go abroad, but are also attacked by the fact that a country suddenly gets an orange travel advice. In my opinion, it is not so much a question of rewarding, but rather of: how do we prevent a very large group of Dutch people coming back to the Netherlands in the coming weeks from being at risk for a new infection shark? It seems to me very sensible for that group to test on day zero at entry and to do a second test on day four or five, not so much to shorten the quarantine for those people, but to know more quickly whether new infections have arisen in the Netherlands by return travellers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u297	I fully agree with the latter. The latter has to be done anyway. That's why we're going to test those returning travelers. We start at Schiphol in small, but will scale up as soon as possible, depending on the execution. So I agree and it has exactly that background, namely: you want to check that people didn't take the virus back in the suitcase. The sooner you know, the sooner you can start warning contacts. So it is very important to do so. Maybe it's not the right term, it could just be. A large part of what comes back is of course willingly and knowingly boarded the plane, even if that was not the intention. Why would you even put two tests on that group, and then shorten the quarantine? The quarantine advice applies anyway. In one test, you'll know enough. Then, of course, the advice is simple: go into quarantine. At all events, the OMT will advise on asymptomatic testing and on how to best shape it for this group. The OMT will also advise on the length of the quarantine duration most appropriate. I'm strongly inclined to just follow that advice, because it's really a whole medical assessment of the length of the quarantine period. Maybe the word "reward" isn't right, so let me just pull that off the table, otherwise it will lead to a misunderstanding. But I am not yet ready to say: I am going to test the returning travellers twice instead of once, so that they can shorten the quarantine period. I would rather think that the OMT advice will be: you can shorten the quarantine duration for these, these and these groups and you can use it asymptomatic for these three groups I just mentioned in reply to Mrs Van de Berg in this way. Then I'm strongly inclined to do that. I hope to get advice on this as soon as possible, possibly this week. If it is still this week, I hope to be able to inform your Chamber next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u298	Perhaps we should turn it around too and we should not talk so much about rewarding travellers or returners, but also about protecting Dutch society. There are people who, upon arrival in the Netherlands, can do so by plane, but of course also by car, train or whatever test that is negative. Therefore they do not comply with the quarantine requests, go back to work and to the supermarket or whatever. This second test can indeed help people to be aware that they have been in a risk area and then think: I have had the second test now, I have to stay home for a few days. If you turn it around and approach it not so much from the perspective of the journey but from the perspective of Dutch society, this can be a very good group to also offer that second test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u299	Yeah, I'll share that. Anyway, that perspective to look at what necessary measures you are using to protect society as much as possible. I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u300	Let's talk about the flights. We've seen it before, in 2003 it was, I believe, with SARS, that on a flight one man infected twenty people, three of whom died on the plane. It's all nice and nice about those test streets at Schiphol Airport, but what would be the best solution, of course, is that we of people who come from risk areas, like the orange and red countries, demand that they get tested before they get on the plane to the Netherlands. So not only test when they have landed in the Netherlands, with all the hassle of quarantine, but before they board. We say to these people: if you want to come from those countries to the Netherlands, you must submit a test before you get on that plane. That is a demand of the Netherlands. Why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u301	The most honest answer is: because it is extremely complicated to regulate. That's one. Two is because in the end that is not necessarily conclusive when it comes to protecting the population. However, I can imagine that we are going to investigate very seriously how this could be done. Jens Spahn of Germany has asked the question about this. Germany is currently the President of the Union, whether it is not possible to regulate it at European level, because not every country can regulate it for itself. What exists right now is the fit-to-fly statements. These are agreements made in international aviation. A health check is then carried out to determine whether there are any complaints. I'd love it if this one would be supplemented by a test. I have to say honestly, a test is always a snapshot. A test can be negative at that time. You get on the plane unsuspectingly, but it doesn't discharge you from the test upon arrival and the quarantine that goes with it. I agree with Mr Wilders that this could indeed reduce the risk of the virus being introduced. What I promise you is that I will explore this further, including with Mr Spahn, at least that I will follow the developments that are currently being developed by the President of the Union, and that I will inform you of the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u302	Thank you very much for that commitment. The Minister is right, of course, that this does not prevent it from being a snapshot and that people can get it later. You're gonna keep people who have it from getting on the plane. You always make a profit. There's got to be some way to settle it. It's uncompareable, but still, when it comes to the visa procedure, no matter what airline you travel with or whatever plane you board, there's always a check by America, for example, whether you have a visa for the country you travel to. If you don't, you won't get into the country. Anyway, thanks for the commitment, because it would help a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u303	Yes. I'm exploring that well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u304	Then you have now come to the next topic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u305	Yeah, on my second block. And I'd like to make one point in between. That's a remark that's partly about the quarantine. I think we should do everything in our power to put the G.D.D. in a prime state of preparedness. I will come back to that in the Chamber. At the same time, I would also like to underline what the GGD's themselves say about this: we cannot leave the crane open and ask the GGD's if they want to keep mopping. Sometimes it goes so fast, also in the number of contacts, and sometimes the behavior is not what the being should be and sometimes is so contrary to the advice given not only by general but also by the GGD. Each for himself and the GGD for all of us is not the way we're going to keep the virus underneath. That is what I want to say, even when it comes to the need to scale up the GDPs. That hits the second block, the quarantine obligation. The Prime Minister has already dealt with this in his term, so perhaps I can do it shorter. I have, of course, also heard very well what the Chamber gave back in the first place on the proposal I described in the letter last night. Let us be clear, if we highlight the importance of source and contact research properly, it is ultimately a question of what you are doing with the results of that source and contact research. You've got the infection, you've got the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u306	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u307	It's kind of hard to concentrate. I'm an old schoolmaster, so I'll look at the corner of the class and then I'll be inclined to wait. Excuse me. The point is, you're gonna break that infection chain. How do you do that? You need to get the contamination out first. Then you need to visualize who that infected patient has been in contact with. Then there is an opinion on the matter. In accordance with the BCO Directive, this opinion was divided into three groups: close contacts between roommates, close contacts with non-family members and other contacts. Different behavioral advice applies to this. Close contacts are subject to the behavioural advice: quarantine for two weeks. Maybe this will get shorter, but now the quarantine will take two weeks. Before the summer we had the talk about the importance of calling the people in quarantine. People have to keep the quarantine, but they're not just gonna stick to it. We have seen by now that it is indeed true that people do not just stick to it. I'm worried about what we've seen over the past few years at the GDD and about the stories we've heard. These concerns have everything to do with the observation of the last few weeks; especially with the observation in the last week of the GGD's in Amsterdam and Rotterdam. We can see that the quarantine obligation is sometimes extremely strict. That certainly doesn't apply to everyone, not even at all. Large groups do, but a small group doesn't. From the point of view of breaking the infection chain and wanting to fight the virus, that is very worrying. If the GGD calls and hears sounds from the ballbox of the IKEA..the prime minister mentioned that example "the pool or tram," then the GGD employee says that this is really not the intention, because that person should be in quarantine. It's worrying when the other side of the line says, "Yes, I'm sorry, but it doesn't work; it's an advice, right?" If you hear this back, it will of course make you feel powerless, even at the GGD if they are asked to do as much source and contact research as possible. But the most important thing is the perspective; Mr Jetten has just mentioned it. In the end, it's about protecting society. That's what it's all about in the end. I stand for what I said about it last week, namely that in the end you cannot control everything with the long arm of the law. You can't do that. That's not how the Netherlands works. The Prime Minister explained this in detail. Quarantine will therefore remain voluntary for the majority of the group. But the law does not provide for nothing in Article 35 (1)a of the Wpg that a quarantine obligation can be imposed. Which group does this apply to? This applies to those who suffer from the disease themselves or who have been in contact with a sufferer of the disease. I believe that we should indeed take advantage of this opportunity. We haven't done that yet, but we have to. I heard your room. There are quite a lot of questions about how this will work in the implementation practice. Very briefly, in recent days, this has been discussed with the security regions and with the Public Prosecutor's Office. The work process is quite complicated, complex, also based on the current law. The president of the security region imposed this obligation on the GGD's opinion. Then that duty applies. If that duty is not fulfilled, there is an infringement of the duty imposed. If that finding is made, the Public Prosecutor may refer that finding to the court. That is a rather cumbersome process, so you should not want this to apply to a very large group. But that stick behind the door helps the GGDs to take seriously the advice of the GGDs. You will now say that this is not all, because sometimes it is also about wanting to participate in a source and contact research. I also want to explore whether this should not become more binding. I'd like to change the law for the returners. We will, of course, be discussing this at the time of the legislative amendment. In the Netherlands, no mandatory quarantine can be imposed on people returning under the current law. We can do this in a number of foreign countries. That duty can be imposed on people who have it themselves or most likely have been in contact with someone who is infected. If you add the close contacts roommates and the other close contacts together, this concerns a small 20% of the people who emerge from the source and contact research. Of course, that's quite a lot. In short, there is every reason to want to use this instrument. As I hear it, taste and estimate, you are actually saying: for the people who come out positive from such an investigation, we can still imagine that, but for the people who come out as contacts, we find this a bit of a tooth on the rough side. Moreover, I do not share that view, in the interest of trying to break the infection chain. The number of contacts emerging appears to be quite high. Not so much the number of other contacts, but the number of close contacts appears to be quite highly contaminated. If we really want to break through the infection chain, which wants to remove exponentiality, so I say in the direction of Mr Klaver, we will have to do something about that. At the same time, I have heard all the questions. I'd like to do you the next hand-out. As far as people who are infected are concerned, I want to be able to put that instrument in the booth of the presidents of the security regions as soon as possible, including by means of a lead. But the work process still needs to be worked out. That's what I'm gonna do. At the same time, I am going to ask the OMT for an opinion on the need to be able to use it. Before we use that instrument in contacts, I will make sure that we can at least talk to the Chamber about this one more time. This gives us the opportunity to look closely at the need for this in the current approach to infectious disease control, also given the context of the number of infections and given the practice encountered by the health services. It allows the Cabinet to work out a work process that is feasible for the presidents of the security regions and for the Public Prosecutor's Office and that is precisely exculpatory and helpful for the GGD rather than extra work. Because that is what is needed. In short, I would like to return to the Chamber in a few weeks' time with a more detailed version.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u308	Good. Yes. I have Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Veldman and Mrs Van Esch. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u309	In a few weeks, the Minister will return to this. I'm glad he's not going through with it, but he says he'll listen to the Chamber very well and we'll talk about it in a couple of weeks. What I don't understand is that yesterday this had to be reported with steam and boiling water and helped the world. This morning we heard from the GGD's: well, we don't have a plan ready at 8:00 a.m., we don't know how to do this either. From different security regions we understood that they do not know exactly what to do with this either. In other words, the Minister says, "Hey, here's a toolbox that's in the law and that we might be able to use it." It almost sounds like a test balloon that is embarrassed instead of having a solid plan. I would ask the Minister to make sure that, before these things are reported in the media, the plan is ready. I'll explain why, because it may sound silly. I am sick of the debate on this particular issue, because it is constantly about whether or not it is compulsory to go into quarantine. That quarantine was a long time ago mandatory. That's what people have to do. Let that be perfectly clear. Because of the debate that the Minister himself started last night, it now seems as if it is about making or not making compulsory. That's not the point. It was already mandatory. It's about whether or not we can criminalize it. An imperfect plan has actually been presented and this creates uncertainty and buzz. Even the coalition says: ho, what is happening here and should we? That's not helping. I would really ask the Minister not to come up with plans like this just before the debate begins. Just wait and see. If you really think it's working, the minister has a good view of the job, get everyone involved, and when it's done, report it. Now it's been reported in publicity. We've talked about it here, and in a couple of weeks, we're gonna move on. Well, I guess there's not much of a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u310	By the way, one could call the observation about the coalition simply dualistic. Can I share another reading of the order of things with you? We have just had a whole debate on source and contact research and its necessity. We all agree on the need for the source and contact research. But the point is that when we follow the advice of the GGD we are advised in a literal sense, but in a moral sense, it is indeed a duty of course to see, hear and know that they are not always respected. A large group does, sure, but they are not always respected. We've just done the analysis of the evolution of the numbers. How is it that there are so many infections? How is it even happening so fast? The advice on how to stop that virus is extremely clear to everyone, isn't it? What really stops the virus is quarantine. If people deal with that shrugging their shoulders, we really have a serious problem with each other. That is indeed why I have said: let us at least use the possibility that exists in the law. I did this in connection with last Friday's observation that things are really moving too fast in Rotterdam and Amsterdam and that they hardly keep up with it through the source and contact research. What is also involved is the large number of contacts that are being made and that are being carried out shoulder-to-shoulder with the quarantine. That doesn't help very much with the source and contact research and breaking the infection chain. That's one. Two. Let us change the law for returning travellers. It is quite crazy that you could require the quarantine for the contacts and not yet for the travellers. In addition, I have said that I need to explore making cooperation in source and contact research more binding, because there are all kinds of advantages and disadvantages. I get that. By the way, I have also said that I will have to work out the work process. But I did think it was necessary to take that step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u311	We disagree on that. With the mandatory testing of travellers coming back, I don't really disagree. I'd be very happy if we could test that mandatory. To be honest, the next four weeks are crucial. There's no change in law in the next four weeks. Over the next four weeks, a lot of people are coming back. We must have that in mind, and there must be a plan for that. Now saying there's got to be a law change is fun, but it's about the next four weeks. These are crucial in view of the increasing number of cases. Let's just get back to the plan the minister launched. I'm very worried about the problems at the G.D.D.'s. The Minister could also have chosen to hold another press conference, to stress once again how important it is that we really go into quarantine. We still think that's some kind of option. I've seen people come back who landed at Rotterdam Airport, I believe. They said they were gonna think again at home about whether or not they were gonna go into quarantine. I did not hear the cabinet say: whoa, wait a minute, this is not an option but a duty; you must do this. So you have not communicated any further about this. Yesterday, suddenly, out of nowhere, you said: we must criminalize it. Everyone was completely robbed by that. Then it's gonna take us a few weeks to see what that looks like. You said something about a possibility that's in the law. We knew there was that possibility. It has been said that we should do this without any plan at the heart of it. Other options you have to address people because they need to be quarantined, you haven't used. You didn't talk to people about that. I find that problematic. I'd like to call on the Minister to stop. Don't push it. Don't push it. Don't push it. Don't push it. Stop it. Not just before there's a debate where you're expecting criticism, you're going to launch a plan. You don't have to. No way. We're all in the same game. I do not need to be reassured the evening before a debate with a half-baked plan. Because that causes unrest. We get a lot of e-mails, phone calls and messages about the punishment people were going to get. This will make the instruments that you have broken according to the law. That's why I'm so focused on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u312	No, I disagree with this. I also believe that the support for a mandatory quarantine is much greater than you estimate. That's one. Two. I find it strange that you are for mandatory testing, but not for mandatory quarantine. Quarantine actually breaks the infection chain. So I don't understand that distinction very well. In addition, for mandatory testing, you should amend the law. You can't do that right now. What can be done on the basis of the law is currently not being used sufficiently, because there is a working process underneath which is actually not yet sufficiently thought out. If you do, and that's going to speed it up, it could actually be used. In doing so, we help the GGDs who now feel a little powerless, who have someone on the phone who is obviously shrugging their shoulders with the advice they receive. Do I ever mention that it's very important to go into quarantine? I think I always say that. Last Thursday I got a question from a journalist: if it is not mandatory and if there is no penalty, you really don't have to do it. No, that legalistic approach is not the way we get this virus underneath each other. I think we're on the same page. On the contrary, we can expect people to fulfil their civic obligations in this respect. Sure. Absolutely. I'd like to appeal to everyone on that. We also see that a number of people obviously do not. That's a risk in infectious disease control. That is why I think: there is an instrument in that toolbox that we are not using enough at the moment. The G.D.D.s like it if we do. The presidents of the security regions like it if we do. So let's set up a workable working process with each other. But you also said that we think it is a little too far at the moment when it comes to the people who come forward as contacts. I think that, given the level of contamination, there is a real reason for this. That's why I said give me the opportunity to work it out. I shall report to the Chamber after asking for an OMT opinion on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u313	Mr President, briefly. The Minister shouldn't put the wrong words in my mouth. I didn't say I'm against mandatory quarantine. In fact, I just said the quarantine isn't an option, it's an obligation. This was about criminality. What I appeal to the Minister is that yesterday he brought an unbearable plan into the world. It's not finished yet. The G.D.D. doesn't know how to run it yet. We still don't know how the D.A. would do this and how it would fit into the chain. All I'm asking is not to use the possibility in the law, but to work the damn thing out first before going out with it. It's a source of unrest. And it seems as if there is now a debate on whether or not it is mandatory to go into quarantine. That is exactly the debate we do not want to have with each other. On the contrary, it reduces support and makes it more complicated. That's the point I'm making. Don't tell me I'd be against mandatory quarantine, because that's the core. My concern, which is the very last thing I say about this, is that if we do not succeed in sufficient testing, the source and contact research and the quarantine of people, then the next step is that we can have fewer freedoms with each other. If the capacity doesn't go up, what your responsibility is, and if we as a society don't follow the rules that are imposed, so if those two things don't come together, we end up losing our freedom and then we go to a lockdown. That's what my concern is, and that's what I'm addressing you to. Nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u314	Well, then, in my eyes, we're a lot closer together than I thought. That's why I did this on purpose last night. Last Friday I received a message that I was extremely upset about, namely that in Rotterdam and Amsterdam the source and contact research could no longer be carried out as it should. Of course, that has a behavioral background. That's the behavioral background you have to want to break. I'm getting too many signals from the GGDs that show that too many people are lucky not all being shrugged off with the advice they get from the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u315	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u316	That makes us vulnerable, and so we need to use that instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u317	Yesterday in the technical briefing it became clear that the reasons why infections are increasing are that too little is being tested and that it is not possible to carry out source and contact research in 100% of cases. Last night, and also in this debate, it was added that people are not complying with the quarantine obligation and that the minister is getting signals from the GGD about this. I find it really impossible at the moment to determine whether the cabinet is considering anything proportionate. Because what's some of the GD's signals? Are those hundreds or thousands of cases? I am very curious whether the Minister will be able to give us more insight into how many people are not complying with this obligation now, which justifies considering such a criminality at all as a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u318	On that last point, that is an incorrect representation of things. It is simply a possibility which is laid down in the law, which has been adopted unanimously, and which is also very conscious for this reason, read the explanatory memorandum in the law. That's one. Two is that I really get that numerical question, because I have that question myself. But there's no peating. The number of times that a person clearly does not comply with that quarantine obligation or otherwise deals with the advice of the GGD is not tarnished. But I also want to get a more quantitative picture of this myself, precisely because this forced quarantine will always be used very selectively. I have also announced that I want to explore or participate in source and contact research cannot be made more mandatory. The moment you come up with such a change of law, that of course requires a numerical basis, also to see if you are sufficiently proportionate. I share that with Mr Jetten. I will therefore try to make that numerical sketch as good as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u319	Fine. And yes, this possibility is in the Public Health Act. But what the cabinet does with this letter and with the Minister's words is very actively asking the presidents of the security regions to actually use it, even though we know that this costs a lot of capacity in the GGD and in the presidents of the security regions. Such an indication must be verified and that requires the capacity of the public prosecutor and of the case-law. It is a proportionate, heavy measure, which also requires a great deal of implementation. That is why quantitative insight is important. Then I would also like to know from the Minister, because that was an interesting debate between various participants in the debate in the first term of the Chamber of Representatives............................................................................................................................ I am very curious what the Minister is now looking at, hearing the debate here in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u320	I've just been very specific about that. What I hear is that there is an understanding of how to use it anyway for the people who are infected themselves and that there are hesitations or that should also be with the people who come forward as contact. I believe that, from the point of view of the fight against infectious disease and breaking the chain of infection, there would be reason to do so, but I also see your hesitations, and that is why I say: give me the opportunity to work out first, to ask the OMT for additional advice on the need to do so, and then to come back to you. I will not put it into effect until I have been able to talk to the Chamber about it. I think you're just worried about proportionality. By the way, I would understand that if it were about all those people who are then given that duty, but the point is that it always starts from a voluntary perspective. It is an opinion with a moral obligation, but not a legal obligation. It's an advice from the GD, a moral obligation. Only when people say "yes, say hello" would you consider imposing that duty. My belief is that at the moment when you complete that toolkiss of the chairman of the security region in that way, that instrument hardly needs to be removed, because that stick behind that door exists. That is precisely why I would like to add it actively. But I make that distinction between the infected and the contacts. With the infected, I'd like to get to work as soon as possible. With regard to the other element, namely contacts, I will first develop the work process further, with the presidents of the security regions, the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Public Health Service, and then come back to you, after consulting the OMT on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u321	That distinction seems very relevant to me, because in the first period we have also established that the source and contact research is in place and falls with the information that persons themselves supply to the GGD. If you already know in advance: if I report my family, friends and colleagues in such a source and contact investigation, they will immediately be facing the threat of such a criminalisation if they do not cooperate properly in such a source and contact investigation. If you have that threat hanging over your head right away, people say, "I'm not gonna screw my buddies, and I'm not gonna report them to a source and contact investigation anymore." That is also what I see today in the messages we receive. That is the behavioral effect I fear if we apply that criminalisation to the broad group. I'd like to give that to the Minister in the elaboration. I hope that he will also ask the prosecution and the courts for advice on this matter. Finally, Mr President. Mr Klaver also said: 'We are now taking the very last resort to better enforce the source and contact research and quarantine'. I myself live in the border region, I regularly cross the German-Dutch border, because that is sometimes the only way to visit people who also live in the border region. You don't come across information boards with texts like "Are you from an orange area? Then we expect you to go into quarantine for 14 days." Over the past few months, you've had a friendly request at airports to consider quarantine. So we have so much more opportunities to get that quarantine obligation back on everyone's mind before we need that criminalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u322	This is doing one thing and not leaving the other. I very much agree with Mr Jetten that much more can be done, including in the field of target group communication. All of that's gonna have to be done. On the first point, I am a little less in agreement, but well, let's just say that I'm just taking that with me in the exploration. I can see why you're saying "a behavioral effect can be expected." I understand that, and I agree with you. Yes, you can. By the way, we're seeing that behavioral effect right now. What happens if I've been to a café and I'm not saying I've been to a café, because I know that my contacts or that café itself can get troubles through that? If we are going to understand that in this way, I am not saying that you are doing so, and if we are going to accept that this would be a plausible argument, then we are working hard to kill the flag. Then we're never gonna make it. So take that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u323	Okay. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u324	The Christian Union can very well imagine that the GGD is calling people, that people do not keep to the quarantine and that they feel quite powerless, and that a quarantine obligation is being considered from that point of view. As far as we are concerned, this would really be a last resort measure. I would like to summarize it as "targeted mandatory."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u325	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u326	But before that there are a lot of other instruments to use, I think, to help people with that quarantine. I see that most people are really of good will, but also have difficulty living up to it. That has to do with practical things, for example. People think "who gets the groceries for me?" or "I'm azzp'er; I can't carry that loss of income" or "I'm an employee and I just have to show up at work, or else I have to fear for my job." So my question is: if the Minister is still working on an exploration, would he like to look at these socio-economic aspects? How can we help people comply with that quarantine measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u327	This is in line with Mr Asscher's question. Mr Asscher referred to it, I believe, as a quarantine package, so it was a kind of happy box; that was the association I immediately had with it. Much is already happening on that point, but I think there are a number of things that can be added to that. You really have to make sure that, in my opinion, Mrs Marijnissen's plea was also that the threshold to go into quarantine and just stick to the advice would be as low as possible. I'd be happy to see if anything can be added to that. We are, of course, working on the shortest possible use of the quarantine period, so shortening the quarantine period. That's already helping to lower the threshold, I think. In addition, there is simply a form of pay-by-pay in case of illness, so fortunately most people do not have any more trubbles in it. In addition, there are a lot of social initiatives to get the groceries done in that case, even if you are alone, so that you are taken care of. But I'd like to see if we can add anything to that. Indeed, I think it might be helpful if you made it easier for people to follow the advice. But I guess we'll just have to do it like we don't turn it around. We shouldn't make it "if you're not being helped enough to keep the quarantine advice, then it's okay." That's not what you mean, by the way; that's what no one here in the Chamber means. But we should also not become too understanding, so you might not have to stick to it if you are not being helped sufficiently. Let me give you another example from Rotterdam. I sometimes hear a few stories about this and I sometimes get there. Then I hear, for example, students say: "Yes, my regards, I just have to keep my student job and I have to pay for my room. So I'm not doing any source and contact research, because if I come forward as a contact, I can be quarantined for a few weeks." Yeah, bye! I'm not gonna be too understanding about that for a while, guys, because if we do it like this, we just don't keep the virus underneath. So I think we should be tough on that. We have to say, "No, quarantine has to be done anyway. Period. In addition, we're going to see if we're going to help you." So it has to be in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u328	It was a good debate, I thought, at this point. In any case, it is also wise for the Minister to say on this part: I would like to take a step in the right direction, and I am going to explore this further when it comes to the people who are not infected themselves, or at least have not been tested positively. He says he's gonna ask the OMT for advice. My question is whether he would also like a legal review, so a constitutional weighting, to take place. It is precisely in the light of the possible application of this provision that I would very much like to highlight this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u329	Well, I'd like to do that, especially since it fits in with the exploration we have to do anyway, I think, when it comes to that more compelling cooperation in the source and contact research. If the corona law was later dealt with and passed, you'd settle it that way, and that way you'd give it a legal basis. What I find so interesting about the legislative history for the Wpg is that our predecessors have apparently taken account of the situation in the handling of that law. Only you were there, I think, witnessing, so you can tell it firsthand, and perhaps Mr Wilders too. They have said that, in that case, this is proportional, provided, of course, that a number of conditions are met. That work process must be careful. That's why I said I'm gonna work it out. But I'd like to do that legal reconnaissance, so that's the more fundamental test; that's actually what I understand. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u330	Thank you for that. The Minister already quoted from the explanatory memorandum. I remember that it was also a kind of cumulative condition. It had to be about not wanting to participate in voluntary measures, but also about serious threats to public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u331	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u332	Is this legal condition also met everywhere and in all cases? For example, there are other points where it would fit, also in view of the far-reaching nature of the measures, to consider this explicitly. I assume that we will therefore hear exactly what the Minister would like to give us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u333	Yeah, yeah. Sure. I'd like to take this with me. You're right. You're right. You're right. You're right. In the beginning, it's voluntary. If someone fails to comply and at the same time there are reasons to believe that that person has recently had such contact with a sufferer or suspected sufferer of an infectious disease belonging to Group A and may have been infected with the same disease, then the chairman of the security region may impose that measure, which should then be reviewed by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u334	I would also like to say a few words about this. Indeed, we simply do not know how many people cannot or do not want to follow those measures and why. The technical briefing also showed this yesterday. I asked Mr Van Dissel, who spoke on behalf of the OMT, whether it would then be asked whether it was being asked out and whether it would be registered somewhere, anonymously, so that you could make sense of what is going on and think of a solution that is actually a solution to the problem, namely that people do not remain in quarantine. Mr Van Dissel said at the time that I was shocked: 'There are no parameters. There's no record of it. We just don't know. We don't know how many people they are and we don't know what the reasons are." Is it true that they say, "Goodbye, I don't feel like it?" Or is it "I'm a single parent," "I don't have any money to order my groceries from an expensive grocery store" or "I have to get out, because my employer says I can go any other way"? I think it's really important to know first what the reasons are and how we can give these people a hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u335	The GGD itself, of course, asks: Can I help you? So if housing fails to go into quarantine, there is a possibility of being accommodated somewhere. If there are messages to be made because you are alone and you have no one else, then there is a possibility at the Red Cross to be helped. In addition, there are many initiatives, actually in every municipality. So there are a lot of possibilities to support, but I would also like to be careful to be so understanding that it is obviously acceptable that if you find it difficult to go into quarantine, then you do not. That's not what you mean, but we really need to keep saying that to each other. That quarantine obligation is not an option. It's an advice, but it's an advice you have to follow. Otherwise, things aren't going well, you know. Then that virus isn't going well. In addition, I think Mr Jetten asked the question: try to give a more quantitative assessment. I'd be happy to. I think I will also answer the question you are asking, namely to quantify it a little more. There isn't at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u336	I like that very much. We have also been updated by the Red Team, as the experts call themselves, and that says: we really need to move from an enforcement process to a hand-out process. I actually like that very much in this context. If you find that something goes wrong and people don't follow the measures, I personally think it would be wrong if you say right away: we're going to criminalize it, it's going to be an obligation and we're going to criminalize it. You really need to understand why people do that, because we do have to fight this virus together. We need to work together to reduce the number of infections. You are now giving us the opportunity to discuss it with the OMT and then to discuss it with the Chamber, but I really want you to give people a hand-in-hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u337	Of course, that's happening. Besides, I don't think it's that black and white. A lot of people just do it because they think it's necessary. There are a number of people who do not do so because they do not understand their importance. There are a number of people who consciously ignore it, for whatever reason. And actually, no reason is a good enough excuse. What you can do is to make it easier for Mr Asscher, Mrs Marijnissen and Mrs Dik-Faber to do so, in my view, by helping people more to comply with that quarantine. So it is never just enforcement. With the long arm of the law, I said that last Thursday in the press conference, we are not going to make it. You should never want to look at it in a legalistic way. That's not gonna work. It is indeed primarily about behavior, about the awareness of people that it is simply your civic duty to abide by the advice of the GGD. Sure. And yes, it's also our responsibility to help people. Sure. We are. In addition, you will eventually also need a stick behind the door, otherwise people often don't stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u338	Yeah? Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u339	Mr President, I have one more question. Does the Minister perhaps want to talk to municipalities or other bodies that could help the GGD to reach out to those people, and help people to get those measures, well, "out of business"? Because the GGD is overflowing and the GGD is scaling up: that's nice. But I really want to ask the Minister whether he is going to talk to other bodies to help with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u340	I want to say that we are already doing that. A very comprehensive Q&A has been prepared with all the examples on that point, but I will spare the President that. So let me say here: in the letter I come back to the question of how we can help people to keep that quarantine easier. I will also mention the examples of the ways in which we support people in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u341	In the first term of the Chamber, I had an interruption debate with Mr Klaver where we found each other on two points. If people are infected, and knowingly endanger others, it is right that you should enforce those quarantine rules. And the second point was about contacts. Before you start maintaining that quarantine in this group, there are some other steps to be taken first. That starts with the subject we have just discussed in detail, namely the speed of testing, and perhaps also the shortening of the quarantine period. We heard yesterday from Mr Van Dissel that perhaps with a slightly different arrangement of that testing, that period can be shortened. I hear that the Minister is now listening to the Chamber; a number of other spokesmen have also expressed their views on this matter. I hear that the Minister wants to follow that line, but I hear him say in particular that he wants to look at the 'work processes of enforcement' and that he wants to ask the OMT for an opinion. I would ask the Minister not to look so much at the work process of this enforcement, but to focus on those conditions that are all possible before imposing and enforcing that obligation. So I'm talking faster testing, faster rashes, see where it's possible to shorten that quarantine period. Because if that period is shorter, it's easier to ask for contacts to keep that quarantine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u342	I think we should do one thing and not leave the other. I don't think it's all that organized. I think I can make a decision on the quarantine period pretty soon, because I expect the OMT to advise on this at the end of the week. I therefore believe that next week, at the end of next week, we will be able to inform the Chamber of the decision taken by the Cabinet on the basis of that OMT opinion. That's one. The second point is: working out the work process on how best to impose that quarantine obligation already in the law in a way that relieves the GGD's a little, will cost me a few weeks anyway. I understand very well that you say that you are not so sure that this is a proportionate tool for this group of contacts in particular at the moment. I may be a little short of it, but that's how I understand your room. That is why I said: I will work it out first, I will ask the OMT for advice on this, I will also highlight the legal side of it in a good way, and I will come back to the Chamber on that. Everything else we have to do, of course. We need to shorten that test process. The period from the moment of infection to the moment the source and contact research is completed should be shortened. But one is not dependent on the other, or one is not conditional on the other. I think those are actually just processes that can run side by side. I will inform your Chamber of all the things we need to do as soon as possible, as soon as we are one step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u343	Another point that could be counterproductive is the fact that you are already hearing that people may not even be tested at all. The fact that they don't want to cooperate anymore with the source and contact research is one problem that could arise here, but a second problem that could arise is that people just think: well, let it be with that test, because this can create a duty, I can put my family, friends and environment at risk. I understand that the Minister does not want to give these people a hand-off, but I do think it is a concern that is emerging at the moment. And so I think it is very important to include this in the next few weeks' research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u344	Yeah, you're referring to behavioral effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u345	Because it cannot be the intention that people should think: I have a cold, but leave the test, because I will soon be faced with legal measures. That seems very undesirable to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u346	That's right, sure, you don't. So I have to take that behavior into account. I think that's what someone else was asking for. So that behavioral effect is really part of that. We need to take a good look at that, yeah. That is why I have also said that we should not only make use of the obligation to impose quarantine, but that we should also explore whether we should cooperate at all in that source and contact research should not become more mandatory. There was a beautiful piece in the Volkskrant today that described very domestically how that sometimes goes. I thought that was insightful. You don't always have the luxury of looking at such a contact from the inside out. I found that quite insightful in how things can go. Sometimes with the best intentions, sometimes with less good intentions, one avoids the need to stop that virus. So I recognize what you're saying about that behavior effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u347	Very briefly about that. I'm not just talking about the source and contact research, but testing an sich...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u348	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u349	...isn't just from your contacts...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u350	No, it's part of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u351	...but that's really part of each other. If people don't even start testing at all, then the whole house of cards really falls apart, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u352	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u353	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u354	I'm just looking. I think I have answered most of the questions in this block, although I still had a very difficult question from Mr Jetten about Bonaire. I'm looking for that answer, but I can't find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u355	The Prime Minister is going to help you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u356	The Prime Minister's gonna help me. That's so beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u357	Is it a short answer? Or perhaps Mr. Wilders first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u358	Before the minister goes to the beautiful Bonaire, let's talk about the mandatory quarantine. I have heard all the colleagues and the Minister's answers, and I really must say that I find it shocking what the Minister is showing here. He suggested last night out of the blue the mandatory quarantine. There's no reason for that plan. He himself says, "I don't even know how many people don't follow the quarantine." There's no peating. So there's no reason. There's not even a plan. He doesn't even know how he's gonna do it. There is hardly any support in the House of Representatives, not even in the full coalition. So what the hell did you do? Are you campaigning here or something? You are Minister of Health and you said that was the reason; I just heard you say this in a reply to an interruption by a colleague of mine who saw you last Friday that things were not going well in Amsterdam and Rotterdam and that you thought: what should we do? And at once, out of the blue, without any reason, without any support, without any effect, there is a plan. And now you're saying, well, okay, for that one group, I'm gonna go check it out. Turns out it was just a balloon! But you're not a minister to campaign, to work on your image. You have to work on corona! What the hell are you doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u359	Let me answer along the line of content. We see at the GD's that there is a lot of work to be done to ensure that we can do all those source and contact research that needs to be done. We also hear too much that too many people are fortunately not all; of course don't take it so closely with the advice of the GGD. That means you have to think about how you're going to break through that infection chain as best you can. Tests, source and contact research; all this is important, but if the quarantine advice is not followed, tests and source and contact research are pointless. Because then you know who's infected. You also know who's been in contact with that infected patient, but if they're going to the IKEA on the tram, you still haven't broken the infection chain. So that quarantine is incredibly important. If you see that at the moment there is actually no stick behind the door that the GGDs can use, it is necessary to think about it. That's what I did. It is also necessary to look at what is already possible under the current legislation, which was also deliberately put into law by the legislator at the time, as is evident from the whole legislative history. No, we all haven't worked out that work process yet. That's because it's a rather complex work process. This means that we need to find a way to make this as simple as possible, because the reason why it has not been used sufficiently so far is precisely because it is very cumbersome to impose this mandatory quarantine. That's why I said I want to get to work on that. In any case, that is true of the possibility already contained in the current law. In addition, I would like to explore how you could make participation in the source and contact research more mandatory at all. I also want to see how you could make the quarantine more mandatory for the people who come back from an orange country. That is not on the basis of the current law. And yes, indeed, because I think that is really part of the issue of source and contact research, on which I would anyway write a supplementary letter to the Chamber, I wanted to add that yesterday to the analysis I had to do on the basis of what happened on Friday. 'Cause it's part of each other. The entire source and contact research is aimed at stopping the spread of the virus, the infection chain. This simply includes source and contact research. Quarantine is part of the source and contact research, inseparable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u360	The Minister didn't do that. You've just done image building, damage control. Do you know what you've done? You've threatened people with criminality. It's just on the news that Professor Brouwer of the University of Groningen says: yes, there is four years in prison, maximum. Four years in prison. You threatened, you made that up on a Friday afternoon, when it all went wrong with your Thursday stories about the source and contact research and the scaling up of the GGD. That all went wrong. You were on edge and you thought I had to do something. Then you, out of the blue, are gonna threaten with criminality, so people know they're gonna get four years in jail if they don't comply with that rule. What's the result? That people are afraid that people aren't gonna get tested anymore, that people when they get called by the GGD may be gonna give up fake names of people they've met, that people aren't gonna cooperate on the app on September 1st because they're afraid that if that app says it, they're gonna have to stay home for two weeks and that if they don't, they're gonna go to jail for four years. You have achieved the opposite of what a responsible minister, who deals with the corona problem responsibly, wants to achieve. And you did it because of the campaign. That's bad, that's bad, and that's unworthy of a minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u361	The latter, the suggestion that Mr Wilders is making there, is incorrect. What we have to do here, what I have to do as a minister and what you have to do as a chamber, is to support the people who are working for us in the front line. Those are also the people at the GGD's who have to do all those source and contact tests and who sometimes feel like they're mopping with the tap open, when they get someone on the phone who's obviously in the tram, pool or ball pit of IKEA. We have to back those people up with a stick behind the door: if you don't follow the advice that is needed to get the virus underneath, there is also an instrument to impose it. Nota bene the legislator himself. You were in the Chamber at the time. You put that instrument in the law, and not for nothing. It was adopted unanimously. I'd like to use that instrument. I also know it's not used because it's rather cumbersome to use it. That is why I want to simplify that. Of course, I am discussing this with the Public Prosecutor and the Presidents of the security regions, because you must want this to be an effective instrument. You rightly call for attention to be paid to possible negative behavioural effects. Of course, you have to want to take a good look at that, because we don't need those negative effects; we can't afford that. In the end, there's only one thing that counts: the effectiveness of the source and contact research, of breaking that infection chain. That's what you have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u362	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u363	Finally. You don't even know how many people this is about. You don't even know that. You're using a horse medicine. Four years in jail! And you're just saying, no, the GGDs don't, I don't know how many people it's about who don't stick to it. So you're putting in a horse med, four years in prison, and you don't even know how many people this is about. There may be thousands, tens of thousands, I may fear hundreds of thousands of people, I hope not, of course, those who think: if there are four years in prison, I am not going to be tested, I am not going to give up my contacts or give up honest information; then I am not going to do any more. That's what you've achieved. You have brought our step to further address corona four steps back because of your own ego. I'm sorry, Minister, because you're not sitting there for your own ego.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u364	I'm gonna skip those last sentences. Back to the content. No, we have just said that, of course, the Public Prosecutor's Office will have to work out what a proportionate penalty is for this and that the sentence will always be imposed by the judge. That's how the rule of law works. There's no automatism of four years in prison or whatever you call it. The behavioral effect must of course be involved in the development of the measure, but at least we will have to support and support those who do the difficult work for us in the front line. That is what this proposal is about. That is why I made the proposal. Again, I'll work that out and then I'll come back and talk to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u365	I had Mr. Azarkan on my list, but I don't have to? No, I see. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u366	Now we go to Bonaire; finally. What is not in the law is the possibility of mandatory testing. The same goes for Bonaire. At the moment, however, there is an emergency regulation which gives Bonaire's authority to travellers from high-risk areas or the US the opportunity to impose a mandatory quarantine; that is where we have him again. This is enshrined in the emergency regulation as a public order measure. This is based on the Public Health Act and therefore fits in perfectly with this discussion. So that measure can be, it cannot be tested mandatory, unless we make a legislative amendment to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u367	Just because Bonaire doesn't have any ic-unit at the moment, and Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten are now using that mandatory test on entry, that would really be a solution for Bonaire. I understand from a lawyer that this could be included in the Public Authority Act BES Islands or under the air traffic rules. I imagine that the Minister is not responding immediately, but could he respond in the second term to whether he is prepared from the cabinet side to make that adjustment for Bonaire?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u368	In any case, I am going to promise you that I am prepared to look at this issue, because I fully agree with you that we really need to help Bonaire. So I'd like to look at this issue. I can't really oversee the legal implication right now. I'm afraid it's gonna require a change of law. I'd like to get back to that. A number of questions have been asked about ventilation in relation to nursing homes and in relation to schools. The background to this discussion was also expressed by Mr Wilders. Previously, ventilation has led to a lot of questions and a lot of concern and RIVM has also strengthened its ventilation advice at our request, based on questions from VWS, but also based on insights from the ECDC. That advice RIVM gives about ventilation has also been posted on the site. What is said about this is what people have actually been saying for a while, namely that ventilation matters. Make sure your spaces are properly ventilated. Generally speaking, building regulations offer sufficient requirements. If you stick to that, the ventilation systems will be fine. From the recirculation of air in one room, RIVM says that that is really unwise and that you shouldn't want to do that. Also with ventilation possibilities such as air conditioning but also with fans that are misdirected and trigger air currents that actually facilitate the transfer from one to the other and the droplets may even be able to cover a greater distance than 1.5 meters you should look out. This was followed by an even more specific application, including for schools and nursing homes. The background why this also keeps coming back is the assumption of aerosol distribution. Of this, the OMT says several times and also in several opinions that there is the view that Jaap van Dissel also explained yesterday in the technical briefing. The OMT does not deny the possibility of aerosol spread. The same applies internationally. The WTO and the ECDC also leave that possibility of aerosol distribution open. It could play a role, but is it likely that it will play a very important role? No, actually, there's no such probability. Why not? First of all, because we have taken all kinds of measures in the first wave that were not really based on the transmission capability of aerosol distribution. And yet, with the measures we have taken, we have managed to reduce the R so that the number of infections was very much under control. Secondly, if it had been the case that this aerosol spread played a major role, the spread would have been many times greater in hospitals, for example. That's where the patients were, they weren't all in oppressive chambers. Then the spread would have been much greater there. Thirdly, the R would have been very much higher, measles-like, 15 to 20 and not without measures about 2.5. In short, there are many reasons to believe that it does not play a major role. At the same time, no one can rule out the fact that it does indeed play a role. Therefore, the possibility of the contribution that that ventilation system could have made in that nursing home in Maasluit was also examined. At least some of the research results came out of that yesterday. It says: if you look at the two virus strains that are now there, it is not very likely that ventilation there has been the primary spreader. The introduction probably went through employees and the distribution probably went through employees and two pg patients there who had complaints. That's the most likely introduction. They were two virus strains. Some virus material has been found on the ventilation, but it turned out to be insufficient to properly sequence it and link it to the spread as it happened. In short, what I understand is that there is no statement on whether ventilation has played a major role in this. In any case, it is unlikely that it has been an important cause of the spread there, because the spread is likely to have been otherwise. But again: is there nevertheless the possibility of aerosol spread and can this play a role in the transmission? Yeah, it's possible. And that is why the ventilation advice given by RIVM applies. Then go to the schools. As far as schools are concerned, the ventilation advice that applies at all applies, of course, to the schools. But back to before the summer, before we could decide as a cabinet to say to secondary education: secondary education can be opened again, as part of the transitional phase, but take into account a number of aspects that make it safer to open up. You don't necessarily have to maintain that 1.5 meter among young people. We know that young people can play a role in the dissemination, but not a major role. But you have to make sure you keep that distance between students and teachers. Teachers must of course keep their distance from each other and also a clear protocol has been created for all sectors, including the sectors, to provide further advice on how and under what conditions you can then safely open. This whole ventilation discussion, partly in connection with the nursing homes, has also caused unrest in education. That is precisely why Mr Slob has been talking over the last few days to see how we could respond to this unrest. Here's the deal. In any case, schools must comply with RIVM's ventilation recommendations. So do not recirculate air in the same space. Make sure your ventilation system complies with the Construction Order. Make sure your ventilation system is also used for the situation for which it was installed at the time. School boards are really the first to be responsible for that, which makes sense. But it is also quite difficult to understand all these ventilation advice in a good way and to understand all the provisions in the Building Decision in a good way. If school boards need help with this, they will receive this help from the sector organisation. That is the agreement Slob has made with the sectoral councils. In addition, you may then come to the conclusion that the ventilation is not sufficient. In a number of cases, you may need to hire an expert to do so. Then perhaps you will have to take further action. If you need to take those measures, you can consult with the GGD, who also advises on the measure that is appropriate here. What we should not do, I think, is to make the unrest so great for the whole country that people think: can we really open up safely? The unrest is understandable, but at the same time we also have to deal with it proportionally. The conditions under which it is justified to open, we have determined on the basis of the OMT advice. Those conditions are in place. And yes, ventilation is of course important, but whatever it says, it goes well if you stick to the protocols made by the industry based on the RIVM advice. However, ventilation is important and the additional hand-out that industry councils are going to support is important for this ventilation. School boards are, of course, responsible and are going to support sector councils. If it turns out that the ventilation system is simply not good enough, you will enter into consultation with the GGD on what measures are appropriate. That's what the schools are about. Then I'll come to the nursing homes. Already before the summer there was unrest at the nursing homes, partly because of the situation at De Tweemaster: are you okay? What concerns do we have about the role that ventilation could play? Everything I have just said about this also applies to nursing homes. Of these, ActiZ has also supported its members to do what is necessary to ensure that ventilation is in order. Especially in nursing homes, there is a need to prevent air recycling in the same room. That's one. Two. Prevent air currents from starting in the common room, either by air conditioning, or by a different type of ventilation, so that the droplets are carried further than those 1.5 meters. This support and advice is also given to members by ActiZ. That's about the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u369	And everything that has to do with ventilation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u370	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u371	Okay. I have Mrs Sazias, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Van Esch. Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u372	During the technical briefing on the infections in the mink farms, we talked about research. Measurements have been made and it has shown that the virus particles were in the air. So, those virus particles are also airborne. That's what RIVM's investigation has shown. Now the Minister says, "Don't stir things up." Then what does the Minister think of the story that we heard yesterday, I think of Op1, of the researcher who did that research in that nursing home and who was tapped on his fingers because he was not supposed to do that research and then not allowed to talk to the media? If there's one way you want to stir things up, this is it. Then all the bells start ringing: here something is not right and here something is under the hat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u373	I've been looking into that signal: how about that? It is not recognized by the RIVM or by the GGD Rotterdam-Rijnmond. The GGD Rotterdam-Rijnmond has the task of leading that research. The Erasmus MC has been involved and the group of the virologist Marion Koopmans has been involved. RIVM has been involved, another independent research club and an independent ventilation expert. In short, very thorough research has been done there and the conclusion has been drawn with each other, namely: it is not likely that ventilation has played a major role here. The spread of the virus in this house has really gone a different way than through the ventilation. That is the conclusion that was brought out yesterday, because it was seen to cause unrest. That is the report that will be drawn up in the near future. It is very simple, I think: every time new knowledge is acquired about how that virus could spread, RIVM has the task to see if this means anything to our advice. Research reports such as these are therefore very important, because all cases reported and all cases under investigation, including peer reviewed, can lead to new insights. It is therefore important to continue to stress that no one denies the possibility of aerosol distribution, the OMT does not, the ECDC does not, nor the WHO. No one's denying that. It's all about what you learn from practice. What do you actually come across? If there is any idea that there might have been an aerosol spread and that a ventilation system could have played a part in this, you should of course examine it carefully. This is the outcome of the investigation with which we have to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u374	But do you agree with me that such a story as last night only causes real unrest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u375	But then, of course, I have to ask: do you recognize that no research should be done or anything? The answer is no. I'm gonna have to do it with that. I think it is more important that that situation in Maassluis has been investigated, that that investigation has led to conclusions and that you should then do it with those conclusions. If those conclusions had been different, it would probably have meant something for the ventilation advice of the RIVM et cetera. 'Cause then you're gonna move on on that basis. It is important that you examine a situation if it exists and if it gives rise to changes in the directives, it must be done. That's how it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u376	RIVM has now said that the directive is: no recirculation and the ventilation system must comply with the Building Decision. But I believe that the Building Decision only applies to new construction. What about the old schools and the old nursing homes that may not comply with that Building Decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u377	That is why what Mr Slob has agreed with the sectoral councils is important. The sectoral councils also say that they should support their school boards in this. In order to be able to assess the adequacy of the ventilation system in a number of situations, especially when it comes to old school buildings, you need a lot of knowledge. You're probably gonna have to hire an outsider for that. To guide schools, sector councils are going to support their members. I think this is important. ActiZ is doing the same for her members. It's important that this happens. If the ventilation system is not satisfactory, it must be replaced naturally. It'll take a while. What are you gonna do in the meantime? What action perspective does that fit in with? It is not the case that there can be no further teaching immediately, but I cannot judge that from this point of view. That will have to be assessed on the spot by the GGD. The GGD also has people who can do this and know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u378	Finally. It's very important that we get that help. Those systems are indeed very complicated. Not everyone can handle that. That's right, and we know it. We also know that ventilations, including state-of-the-art ventilations, are misadjusted. It is not just the type number and the year of construction of the ventilation system, but it is also necessary to check whether that system is properly adjusted in every school and in every nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u379	Yeah, and if it's properly maintained. That's all true. But who's gonna do that? The owner of the building has to do that. So the school board has to do this. In the case of a nursing home, the nursing home board must do so. That administration is really primarily responsible. It's true that support is really in place there, because it's complicated. That's a deal. If it is not satisfactory, it is likely to require an adjustment of the ventilation system. This means that you have to look on the spot at what is in between, in the meantime, the advice and how to deal with it tailor-made. That's really the most appropriate thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u380	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u381	Yeah, finally. Can we make that happen? Can we also set a deadline for all the systems to be checked on that and that date and to be properly implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u382	Can we make that happen, too? Let's see. How? I think people are obliged to abide by the Building Decree. That's one. Next, it is also everyone's responsibility to provide responsible care or safe education, for example. That is a responsibility that is also legally invested. In my view, this is not a question of whether the legal responsibilities are well invested. I don't think that's the point. I think the point is that there is concern about the role that ventilation could play in spreading. It is important that every signal is properly examined and, if necessary, the opinions adjusted on the basis of the consequences of that investigation. That's one. The second point is that we not only encourage, but also support the primary responsibility for achieving a good indoor environment in schools. I'm actually saying, for realizing a good ventilation system in schools and nursing homes. I do not think there is any need for a further obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u383	But this has to happen soon, right? This has to happen before winter, right, when the windows close in the nursing homes? We can't just leave that to them, like, "Look when you're gonna do that." It has to be urgent. It has to be now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u384	Yeah, but there's already just a legal responsibility to provide safe care and safe education, right? There's no shortage of legal responsibilities, is there? I believe that the concern that ventilation has played a role in individual contamination situations can only be eliminated in one way, namely by immediately examining signals. That's one. Secondly, make sure that the advice of the RIVM is clear and that everyone is well on the retina. This has been agreed with the sector organisations. People will know what to do. In addition, you need to ensure that you support people in fulfilling the responsibilities they already have. Those obligations do not really need to be added, but you have to help and support people in the responsibilities they already have. That's exactly the deal that was made. I share the concern, the urgency and the need to help. That's exactly what was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u385	In schools, there is still a key problem that has just been mentioned. On the one hand, you have the requirements of the Building Decree. That is wonderful for new schools, but we know that there are a lot of schools that are older, that do not have a system that fully meets current requirements and that may be on the nomination to be replaced in a number of years' time. It takes huge investments just to do that. If you tell them to call the sector council and ask the GGD for advice, will they give the schools sufficient guidance? On the basis of an inventory of the problems in the schools and of what is real, can you give a somewhat more national hand-out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u386	To be honest, I don't think that's as good as possible. The educational housing task is invested in the municipalities and the primary responsibility for a school building is a school board. I think it's good to keep the responsibility where it is. However, it is our task to clarify the concerns that have arisen. That starts with the question of what role a school has at all in the spread of the virus, which we have discussed extensively, let us not repeat it and under what conditions schools can open. This has been clarified, especially with the protocol applied by the different sectors of education. That's one. It is also necessary to clarify the role that aerosols and ventilation could play in the spread of the virus, in the context of what I said about education, namely the extent to which the virus is spread through schools. Then you give clarity about what can be expected from ventilation systems. Recirculation of air in the same room is not a sensible thought anyway. Regular change of air is a good idea anyway, with windows open et cetera. It is also necessary to ensure that the ventilation system meets the requirements as well as possible. Then there will be a follow-up question. New buildings will often meet the requirements, at least there is often the equipment present, but it also needs to be well maintained and used. That is also a separate matter. We know that all new schools do not always meet indoor climate requirements. That's the kind of system you need to use again. But the question is: do schools know when they will meet the requirements of the Building Decision? The answer is: maybe not always, but then we can show them how to find out, what experts you could hire and how to deal with it. That is the support given by the industry councils to their members. Then you have the chance, the eventuality that you call "b" and that chance is pretty big that there are a number of schools that know that their ventilation system doesn't meet what should actually be. Then the question is how to deal with the ventilation recommendations in that particular situation, because you cannot comply with the Building Decision in the short term. What are you supposed to do? I can't see that from here. You can only do that regionally. That's going to have to go through an individual GGD with a school board.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u387	But from what expertise will this individual GGD assess that? They say: it's not really ideal, but if you look at the investment and so on? Are these such very regional considerations? Don't certain questions come back to all the GGD's about how you actually deal with this and what the hand-out is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u388	The general ventilation advice is national advice. They're RIVM. That's obvious. The Building Decision includes national requirements. They are in the law, at least they derive from the law. It is about the way in which you could best ventilate an individual classroom, given the advice given the requirements in the Building Decision, given that the system does not meet the requirements of the Building Decision and whether that poses a risk. If you don't know if your system complies with the Building Decision, you might need to hire an independent expert. In order to know what to do if that is the case and to what extent that could give rise to a risk, the GGD can advise with it. But I'm also saying, guys, let's not make that absolute. We know that distribution through schools does not play a very important role at all. We monitor this well because we know in which age groups the most positive test results are. We also monitor that because we check in with teachers. A number of professional groups are on the test street, including teachers. The fact that there are not many infections among teachers during the summer holidays makes sense. But we will continue to monitor that very closely, to see if there is any need for extra care. You have to want to look at it in that context. So yes, ventilation is important. Yeah, you have to follow the advice. Yeah, we need to support school boards in that. We do, through the industry councils. And yeah, if it doesn't work out, you have to see how you deal with it at school. You really should do that in consultation with the GGD, because he can watch the situation in the school building.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u389	Finally. Can the GGDs provide sufficient backup to schools? You put a complicated task on the board with drivers. You have to meet all kinds of requirements, because otherwise people will say you don't meet them. On the other hand you have to put it a bit into perspective, because it's not the case that everything depends on it. And that, while there can be very heavy investment decisions. Can you expect the GGDs to give firm, clear advice and direction on this in the short term? Are they capable of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u390	Just in the right order and in the right distribution of responsibility: it is the school authorities themselves who are responsible for their building. It is the sector councils that support the school boards. They are also the guide for the ventilation system and the extent to which it meets the requirements of the Building Decision. If you want advice on that, you could go there and there, et cetera. If you find that it is far from satisfactory and you wonder how to deal with it in order to ensure that you ventilate well enough, the GGD can indeed support it. At each GGD there is a number of experts in the field of indoor climate and air quality. They can indeed also advise on what to do in that context. In that way, I mean that you should see it in the right context and in the right distribution of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u391	I think the Minister's handling this a little too relaxed after all. We see that the number of infections among teenagers is rising. That's the age of high school kids. We saw Slob's letter today, which actually says to the schools, check your ventilation. On the other hand, a lot of schools had the pre-summer protocol. That wasn't about ventilation. It was about distance, walking routes, et cetera. For a lot of schools that are now seeing Slob's letter, it's still working days before they open again. In the North of the Netherlands there are still two working days, including Amsterdam. As you yourself say, the number of infections there is rising very quickly. The Minister now says to schools, parents, teachers and children: there are two working days left; check the ventilation. This minister was in a gray past alderman of education. He knows perfectly well that in perhaps a quarter of schools that do not meet the indoor climate and that you don't walk there as school board, keep your finger in the air and say: I think it's okay. It takes a lot more help to do this right. We agree on the starting point: children must go to school in a safe way. But you're gonna have to do a lot more about this. You're going to have to help a lot more, and you're going to have to deal with that much more imperatively. Someone is coming to see it. Until then, open the windows. If it is not in order, you are obliged to adapt it in collaboration with the GGD. Not: look at the responsible one. No, the schools take responsibility. But now, with two days left to go, the cabinet must show the safety of the children and their interest in going to school much more clearly, show them and turn them into deeds. That's not the same as a letter saying, "Hey, check it out."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u392	I wonder if that's a good representation of what I've just tried to convey. Let me respond to Mr Asscher's question. I honestly believe that you need to see this in the right context. We talked about the role of aerosols in the spread of the virus. That part's definitely not big. He could exist, but he's certainly not big. That's the first observation you have to make. The second observation you have to make is that ventilation does not play a very important role in the spread of the virus, although ventilation is of course important. What's important about ventilation is that you keep your end of the bargain. Circulation of air in the same room is not a good idea. You have to be careful, for example, that swivel fans or air conditioners trigger air currents which actually trigger the transmission, because large drops can also be carried over a distance of more than 1.5 meters. Those are the most important ventilation recommendations. And further: ensure sufficient ventilation and sufficient fresh air. That is a very short summary of the eleven pages of the RIVM opinion. That's the ventilation side. You have to add it to what was said in spring about the conditions under which schools can open. These are the conditions in the protocols to which Mr Asscher refers. What's responsible? Kids should stay home anyway if they're sick. That's a great help. The distance of 1.5 meters in the vo compared to teachers must be kept. Teachers among themselves must also keep that distance. In the meantime, what we need to do to ensure that we have all these cases in view is to monitor very well in the test street, both among young people and among the teachers' profession, as well as to carry out cluster-based research in schools if there is an outbreak, so that you learn very well how the virus spreads in schools. Can the virus spread in schools? The answer is, of course, yes. Could that be a reason not to open up? No. But I do not think Mr Asscher is suggesting that either, and that is not what he wants either. The conclusion is that you need to look closely at the ventilation systems. Can schools comply with RIVM's advice? You should try to follow those advices as best you can. For that, school boards probably need support. You'll take care of it through the sector councils. That's what Slob did. Should the school board come to the conclusion, as I have just said in the direction of Mr Staaij, that the ventilation system does not comply with the Building Decision, then the GGD can step in. That seems to me to be exactly the kind of help that is needed and tailor-made. By the way, a lot of school administrators have already checked their ventilation system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u393	I'm trying to do justice to the Minister's response. I myself argued at some point to keep it all closed. But in between there is still an important responsibility in the very short time that there is still in the development of the virus and what it does in society. I refer to reports from the trade union movement, which indicate that what they hear from Slob and the domes is a bit noncommittal. That's what I'm pointing out. We're not in a normal time when the school boards are responsible for a building and they'll take care of it. No, you just want the teacher, the kids and the parents to go to school with confidence. It is extremely important for the teenagers that they go back to school, after that long holiday and after the little education before that. I'm sure the importance of aerosols will be discussed again. But my appeal is to go proactively with the municipalities, with the school boards and with the trade union movement and ask: what do you need to make this happen? It's only two working days. The message that it's so good hasn't reached everyone. We don't want that unrest. Make sure they get to school safely!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u394	No, you shouldn't. We don't want that unrest either. But I sincerely believe that the support that Slob has agreed with the sectoral councils is really appropriate to what is going on in the schools and what school boards need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u395	Mrs Van Esch and then Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u396	I missed the answer to my question. To what extent will it be maintained when schools are opened? In the last few months of the corona crisis, we have talked several times about the fact that there are enough concerned parents who have a vulnerable child and who have considered not letting their child go to school. In the first instance, this was not maintained. I am curious to see how this enforcement will be shaped at the time the schools are reopening, also in view of the ventilation concerns that are currently being expressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u397	I have not understood from Mr Slob that a different line is being chosen than it has been up to now. I think it's like Asscher says: children want to go back to school incredibly and teachers want to start again incredibly. And yes, we always have worried parents. Of course it is. And precisely because it is, it is really up to the schools to comply with the protocols, as they were made with each other, also in a very serious way. As far as I can see, that happens in such a conscientious and serious way that parents who are concerned will really cross the line to overcome those concerns or otherwise make a very appropriate appointment with the school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u398	I would like to support Mr Asscher once again. In 2012, public-funded research on the air quality in schools was conducted and it was poor. I am afraid that report has ended up in a lower drawer, and then we say here in the Netherlands 'there is not so much going on with this infectiousness', but your colleague in Taiwan, a country that is doing much better than we have done up to now with seven coronadods...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u399	Have you ever mentioned Taiwan, by the way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u400	Yeah, but the nice thing is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u401	I'd still like to ask you to separate that phone. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u402	Yeah, more apps come in on that. But there they say: "When it comes to nursing homes, when it comes to schools, when it comes to lifts, it is of enormous importance." And you keep saying, no, I'm putting it on those school boards, Minister Slob's got it all figured out. I ask you, because you are the minister who is talking about it: take it up with the people concerned, because we do not want to stand here in two months' time and have to conclude that they were right in Taiwan and you are not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u403	I think I made it clear that ventilation is just important. That is what the OMT says, and it is not for nothing that ventilation advice has been given. The fact that nursing homes consider it important to deal with ventilation in a good way is, of course, also one thing that is certain. And yes, sometimes they need support from the industry organisation. If we need more clarity about what is now wise to do, then we really need to rely on the experts. We have done so, which is why this advice has also been modified on the basis of questions from VWS. When it comes to whether we can help to deliver this advice, it is really up to the sector organisation, also towards its members. I think that is a logical division of responsibility. When I look at how nursing homes deal with this, I see that this is being worked incredibly conscientiously, precisely because they want to comply with these ventilation recommendations. So I don't think we disagree on the need for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u404	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u405	Then I will go to the questions that were less easy to deal with and which I will never again call "the block remaining," otherwise you will parody it again in your last speech just before the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u406	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u407	I'm just looking for a new...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u408	So, uh, varia doesn't happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u409	I'm trying to find a new label. Can the dashboard be more specific and with more numbers, even at municipal level? That is what Mr Veldman asked. I share that with Mr Veldman. I indicated earlier that the dashboard should help us, but it was very much a rear-view mirror. It needs to become more and more accurate, more complete, more precise and more and more able to get that virus very close to the skin. That's what we do. In sprints of two weeks, an update of that dashboard comes each time. As an observant viewer on that dashboard, the dashboard has 200,000 viewers a day. Of course you have noticed that that has also changed. We also do all kinds of user research to see if we can improve that time and time again. Before 1 September, a lot is going to change. The sewage water data will be added and a number of other data. We also want to change the design of it, that you first see the most important data and then the less important, as well as its regionalisation. The Presidents of the security regions have said that they want to have these regional signal values as well. Well, fine. Then we're gonna develop it with them, too. Maybe that won't be quite ready before 1 September. In some of these values, it takes a while to find out what signal value it should be, but we are working to make that more and more specific and also more regionalised, precisely because the core of the measures is actually taken at regional level. Then the dashboard should also help presidents of the security region and directors of the GGD. Inside, so actually even more sophisticated than at regional level, you actually do more of an analysis of the source and contact research. You have the source and contact research you have done and then you know what local measures you need to take. And that is not so much in a neighbourhood, but at the level of a catering establishment or at the level of a school, for example. This cluster analysis shows how to take measures even more specific than at regional level. Then the color codes. I don't have the design right here. I've seriously considered working with color codes, actually a little by analogy with the way in which the terrorist threat is indicated. The point is always: what is the perspective of action that fits in with it? It's hard to distinguish that in a good way. But what you are actually doing is very similar to our method, although not with colors, but with signal values. Because if you have a sum of a number of signal values that are exceeded, you have to get on your feet. Then you're worried. Then you have to take action and take action. So I think that the way in which you work is actually quite in line with the proposal you are making, albeit not so colorful. That's where you really win. Then the experts. Mrs Van Kooten asks what I'm going to do with the experts' advice. I think you're asking me over. I haven't been able to follow that hearing yet, but I'm sure I'm gonna get a good feedback. But what we are doing is, on the basis of the agreements I have made with the Chamber, learning the lessons of the past few months, to ensure that we avoid a second wave and, if it does come, to be able to take them as well as possible. In doing so, we would like to invite all experts who would like to participate. That's what I promised the Chamber. You spoke to a group of these experts this morning, but I think we are talking about more than 80 in different round tables this week alone. You will receive the impact of this around 1 September. That is a considerable effort, but you will receive it around 1 September, in which the cabinet will indicate what we have learned on the basis of the advice of those experts. In any case, all the interview reports will be made public and presented to the Chamber. In short, I fear, or rather I look forward to having a debate on this in the first week of September. It could be the second week, but we are going to debate it to our heart's content. Mr Wilders asked a fair question about investing in treatment, in addition to investing in a vaccine. Our vaccine strategy is actually that we make an appointment with all the developers of a promising vaccine to make sure we're in the front line. We started with the four of us: Germany, Italy and France. After that, the Commission took over from us, but we are still on the joint negotiation team, so we are still fully involved in the negotiations, day by day, even in recent weeks. That's why I'm a little less brown than I normally am, because I've been on the phone a lot, including about that. But you're right. It is not only to bet on a vaccine; it is also to bet on innovative treatment. Yes, I have high expectations of the vaccine. But at the same time, of course, it is true that you are not sure what is being done about the candidate vaccines. They look promising now, sure, but you don't really know it until it's actually finished, when it's actually tested and proven effective. In the meantime, you will also have to do everything you can to invest in innovative treatment, hoping that the vaccine will eventually bring you what you want, namely that you are truly protected as a society. In the meantime, however, we will also have to do everything in our power to deal with innovative treatment, and that is what we are doing. We have now released over 72 million for innovative treatment. Through ZonMw this is 45 million for research into new treatments, new diagnostics, care and prevention and social dynamics in the Netherlands. This is distributed among the most promising projects. In addition, I have set up an advisory panel to see if there are any treatments that you need to give an extra push. Remdesivir is actually the most interesting one right now. That's a virus inhibitor. We now have the first resources of this in Europe and in the Netherlands. There is currently a European purchasing procedure for remdesivir stocks in European countries, which the Netherlands has also registered for. The use of plasma, the plasma treatment, is also a beautiful and promising treatment. That's a very complex investigation. That was certainly so at the stage that there were actually too few infections in the Netherlands.That sounds crazy, of course, to be able to do that research in a good way. We have also said: we are going to help where we can. I have some examples here. We have more of that type of treatments that we give an extra boost on the basis of that expert panel that I have already asked for. That's connected to the academic hospitals. I would be happy, if Mr Wilders would appreciate that, to pay extra attention in a subsequent letter to the question of how we are going to encourage this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u410	Thank you for that. Again, I'm glad you do. It's very important that that happens. I read the other day that there is also a medicine from England. I've lost the name of the ic's being used on the ic's which means that people are no longer 19 days, but 14 days on the ic's. So just a treatment method, a drug, saves a quarter of the ic capacity. It's good for us to follow that. So if, as you have already promised, you could go into that more exhaustively in a letter, that would be greatly appreciated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u411	Yeah, I'd love to. Then the expert clinic corona. Mrs Sazias refers, I believe, to a motion by Mr Jetten and Mrs Marijnissen, that exotic cooperation between the SP and D66. Just before the summer, I had a conversation with the Stichting Q-support about its implementation. He's preparing that right now. He's already doing aftercare for the Q-fever patients, and he's going to do it on our orders, based on your motion, for the corona patients. So that's being worked out right now. When it is finished, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Then the slaughterhouses. Why aren't they closed for 14 days in case of contamination, just like in the hospitality industry? Well, that's what happens. If that's what it takes, it will. In fact, that has already happened with Vion in Apeldoorn and Van Rooi Meat. A slaughterhouse may then resume operations only if the conditions imposed by the safety region or the GGD are met. We keep a good finger on the wrist. You referred to that as well as asking written questions about that story about the falsified health statements and so on. Of course, this was discussed intensively by the security region and Van Rooi Meat. Unannounced research has also been carried out by the Inspection SZW. In short, the security regions are on top of that. And rightly so, because slaughterhouses are a risk. We have had intensive debates on this. By the way, there are more of these types of settings, especially with many migrant workers, which can pose an important risk for infection sites. This is also the reason why the GGDs, but especially the security regions, combine their expertise and their approach in a fireplace, in which all the inspections and also the security regions work together to develop instruments: if this happens, how can you immediately jump on top of it to kick out the flames again? Then what are the instruments you can use?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u412	It's good to hear these words. I am a little concerned about the answers to our written questions this morning. It states that a slaughterhouse will not be closed until the employees of the NVWA or the KDS are in danger. I find that worrying, because that would mean that it is not about the staff of the slaughterhouses where there would be a risk. It just says here literally: if the safety of the NVWA and KDS employees is not secured, then the NVWA will cease operations in abattoirs. I think that's a frightening phrase. It is referred to several times. Surely it is not possible for abattoirs to be closed only when they are the only ones at risk? So I do want a different answer to that than it says here, because that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u413	I think I remember that I meant to write the answer in any case so that you could read in it that if staff in the inspection services are not safe they should not work there, but that this cannot be without consequences. Because then there is apparently such an unsafe situation on the ground that the chairman of the security region really does take action there. That's one. Two is that the chairman of the security region can, of course, take measures in any case if the level of contamination is still the same, regardless of the safety of the inspection services, and the company simply does not comply with agreements made with the GGD, for example. Then a chairman of a security region can simply take firm measures until the company closes. Companies with these kinds of conversions get into the legs very quickly when they have to close. That's the experience. That's what we've seen with Vion, for example, and Van Rooi Meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u414	I can therefore conclude that it is not the case that if a lot of employees are infected in the company there will be no closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u415	No, definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u416	That would be very strange, and that seems to be the case in this reply. I would like to add, however, that I find it worrying that we are getting the help of staff working in these slaughterhouses that pressure is actually being exerted and that it is being said that all these measures are not being complied with. I really think it is the responsibility of the VWS Minister to also carry out unannounced inspections at those slaughterhouses in order to prevent such practices. We have seen, not only in the Netherlands, but also in Germany and in the USA, that these can be big bands. If we are going to maintain this too weakly and only do announced inspections, we are not going to get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u417	That's right. That is why we always decide on this type of approach in that 'fire chamber'. Excuse the word "fire chamber"; if we have a better label, we will also use a better label there. Of course, several inspection services are involved. The ISZW, the NVWA are involved, but also the security region and also the GGD. Well, that's the recipe for working side by side, and it shouldn't be. The unannounced inspections, for example of the ISZW, also take place. Because you are right to say that you have to be critical and sharp on top of that, otherwise you really are not going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u418	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u419	Then I come to the question of vulnerable people at home. What happens for the people in a vulnerable home situation? Of course, a great deal has already been said and written about this, including in previous debates and in previous letters. I'm not gonna do that all over again. However, I am going to remind the House that a strategy for people with disabilities or chronic illness was launched on 3 June. This strategy sets out the measures to ensure that people with disabilities or chronic diseases can participate safely and at the same level. This has really been achieved at the request of, and also with, the client organisations for people with disabilities. There have been many intentions in that strategy, and we are actually working on a monitor of that strategy right now. I think that is at Mrs van den Berg's request. How does that work out for people at home? That's what we do with the client organizations. I'd like to get back to that in the Chamber. Because that way we can also keep an eye on that group, and we can also keep an eye on how that group is doing, which is incredibly necessary. If this does not lead to interruptions, I shall continue to answer the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u420	Yes. I see Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u421	I have a very short question. Thank you for all the initiatives the Minister is taking for the people with disabilities. I also spoke this morning about the action group #NoDorHout. There are young, vulnerable people in there who say, "I actually don't have a life anymore." The Minister has previously promised Mrs Sazias to sit down separately with older people. I was wondering if the Minister would be willing to go separately with people to the table...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u422	It's getting crowded at the Catshouse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u423	...who have a limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u424	I'd love to, because I think that's incredibly necessary. This is a group that feels not only insufficient, but which actually feels even more vulnerable today. As others do not take it so closely with the rules, this means that for this group they have to lock themselves up even longer, to name but a few. How do you deal with that and how do you do enough justice to these people, including in public communication? I think that's very important. Just before the summer we had a bit of a feeling together: hey, hey, we really put the worst behind us and fortunately we can do a lot more. That didn't apply to a lot of people with disabilities at all. Precisely because the rest was going to do much more, they felt that they had to stay home much more. That was the feeling that the people with disabilities had, at least part of them. I'd love to have that conversation, so we're gonna make that deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u425	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u426	Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u427	That is a fine commitment from the Minister and the Prime Minister. I believe that too many people are still at home and cannot participate in social life. This has to do with the fact that they cannot comply with the measures because of their limitation. Or it happens because they're just really scared. Would the Minister, in consultation with the client organisations, like to see what more is needed to help these people to be able to participate fully in our society again? Because it is very good that there is a plan, but I remember that in the last debate before the recess, that survey had come out. At that time the plan was already there, but then it really turned out that more than half of the supporters of Per Recht are still at home. The Minister knows who I'm talking about. Those people aren't getting out the door. So I'm really worried. Paper's patient, but I really think we should get to work together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u428	I think we can combine your suggestion and Mrs van den Berg's suggestion. We are, of course, in full conversation with the various client organisations of people with disabilities. Actually, we talk to them every week. This also raises the question of how we will continue to monitor the strategy that exists. We've made that strategy together before, and now we're putting the monitor back together. But I'd really like to talk to that group of people with disabilities on top of that, too, to see what we could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u429	Yes. Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u430	Yeah, I think so, yeah. Then the mink companies. The summation of what we would do on that has given Mrs Van Esch herself well. I come in the second half of August with a cabinet response to the opinion of the OMT-Z. Then we will consider whether further action is needed. That's one. In addition, the Minister of LNV is working on the voluntary stopper scheme. I expect that the contours will have to be clear by the end of August, so we will come back to that. Then I guess, Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u431	Very briefly, Mrs Van Esch. I was happy, because the minister is going to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u432	I'm going to be very brief. Really, I promise. I am curious, because the OMT-Z says very specifically in its opinion: if there is any reason to reconsider whether we should stop working on mink farms sooner, then we need to look at this seriously. At the end of August, I still think it is quite far away if we are already in a situation where we might have to reconsider it already. Is it perhaps an idea to ask the OMT-Z again for an opinion? Given that that advice is from mid-July, isn't it an idea to ask them to look at those mink farms again, also because those infections have increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u433	Part of the deal is this. On 17 July, the OMT-Z advised that there should be preventive clearance of mink farms if further infections occur after mid-August. That was OMT-Z's advice. It is worth noting that there must be a constant epidemiological situation, because then you know whether the degree of contagion on mink farms can actually play a role in the re-introducing of the virus in society. We have debated very extensively what could and could not be the danger. They propose this measure as an option to prevent mink farms from operating as a virus reservoir. That is how they formulated it. The Minister of LNV and I will ask OMT-Z, before we take a decision on this, how it estimates the situation after mid-August. It's August 12th now. We are going to ask the OMT-Z to advise us on the second half of August so that we can take a decision on this in the second half of August. I don't think it's gonna be much faster. By the way, the OMT-Z can always come together, as the OMT can always come together if it deems it necessary. In any case, we will ask them for their advice on the second half of August.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u434	Yes, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u435	Apologies, but very briefly. The OMT-Z has issued two opinions. You're talking about that one piece of advice. It's about whether you don't have to clean up preventively when there's still contamination after mid-August. The second advice they have given is that we must look at an early stop of mink breeding. That is a second opinion given by the OMT-Z in mid-July. That is indeed an opinion that is not yet being taken over by the government, because we are going to look at a voluntary stop-per scheme. That is different from the advice given by the OMT-Z in mid-July. I'm still curious about that. They say it's important that these mink farms stop early. We are now in a situation where we see that the infections are increasing. Shouldn't we seriously ask the OMT-Z again: since they want to quit early, doesn't that give us another reason to stop working on these mink farms even earlier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u436	There is no new reason in relation to the OMT-Z opinion and the cabinet decision given on the basis of the OMT-Z opinion. It's exactly the same. That indeed has two elements. One, is there still this potential reservoir formation at mink companies? That's probably why you should clean up preventively. That's one side of it. Two is whether we want to stop at all. That's why we have this voluntary stopper arrangement. These are the two elements in the cabinet decision. There is no new reason for this. In the second half of August we come back to both cabinet decisions in the direction of the Chamber, on the one hand, by asking the OMT-Z again about the risk of continuing that reservoir formation. Then we look at what we have to decide on on the basis of the OMT-Z advice. That's one way. The second side is that voluntary stopper arrangement. The contours are now being worked out. I expect it to be in by the end of August.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u437	Finally, Mrs Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u438	Yeah, finally. I still think you're... I really don't feel like this is being taken seriously enough. You can tell mink breeders to stop early, but if you give them the opportunity to do so voluntarily, there will be mink breeders who are not going to do so; they will fill their stables again in the autumn, so there will be new mink. Then the reservoir of corona will remain. If you ask them to quit voluntarily, but do not insist on the early closure of the entire mink farm, you'll keep that reservoir. So I would like to point out that we are underestimating a problem which the OMT-Z is very clear about in his opinion: there is a reservoir, which is a danger to public health and so we must proceed to early closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u439	I'm a little afraid I'm going to repeat the whole debate we've had. We have looked very closely at exactly what the risk of this reservoir formation is. The OMT-Z also advises somewhat more nuanced about this than the summary given by Mrs Van Esch. The extent to which reservoir formation through the mink farms poses a threat to public health also depends on the state of contamination in the population itself. What is the potential risk of re-contamination through a mink-human contamination, as we have found it? That danger is that at the moment when the virus is actually very much lured, a new infection occurs, a re-introducing the infection through humans. If the level of contamination is higher, the risk of a human-mint contamination for the mink is much greater than the other way around. It is therefore not so much a danger to public health as a danger to animal health. In short, you must always assess the reservoir formation in the light of the overall level of contamination in a region. For this purpose, we agreed that we would have OMT-Z re-examine the danger of this reservoir formation in the light of public health in the second half of August. On that basis, we will come up with a decision. That was before the summer and it still is. That hasn't changed. It is not a question of flattening the urgency of this issue either. It has the full attention of both the ministry of VWS and the Ministry of LNV. That is why we will come back to it in August, on the basis of an opinion from the OMT-Z.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u440	Really rounding up, Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u441	Yeah, I'm really gonna finish this. Nevertheless, I will stick with it: I believe that we are creating a reservoir at the moment when we are putting in place a voluntary stopper scheme, which means that mink breeders are not obliged to stop. Then they will fill their cages in the Netherlands with mink in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u442	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u443	We don't want that if we're gonna fight the corona virus with each other. We may continue to disagree on this. For the Party of Animals it is unacceptable that we allow there to be reservoirs where corona remains around and that we tell people that they can voluntarily stop and then get money, but that we do not say that it just needs to be completely phased out. That's how we maintain a potential corona fireplace. That is really unacceptable as far as the Animal Party is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u444	In my view, the short version of this is that we are looking at the danger to public health again in the second half of August, and that is why the government will come to a decision. By the way, we were already of the opinion that a stopper arrangement could help. Moreover, your Chamber was also of the opinion that there was broad support for the end of mink farming. But we shouldn't mix all these things together. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u445	A final question from Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u446	I realize I don't have any more interruptions, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u447	Now that you mention it... it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u448	I would like to make a point of order. As you know, I'm glad you can. We spent more than an hour debating the surprise the Minister experienced in the source and contact investigations. Just now, the NIS reports that signals have already been given to the highest level in May that it was not going to work, but that they wanted to radiate it to be ready. I would like to make a point of order, because I do not think we can ask any more questions about it now. I would like to invite the Minister to respond in writing. I understand that it is no longer possible to do so in this debate, but it seems to me to be relevant, because we have had a different impression during the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u449	I'm looking at the Minister to see if he's capable of doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u450	Well, look, I'm obviously in full continuous contact with the G.D.D. It doesn't mean anything to me that there was a signal that it wasn't gonna work. We have the conversation all the time, all the time. Of course it's complicated and difficult and squeaks and cracks it and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u451	But it's a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u452	My request was to respond in writing. I can't respond to this anymore. The minister couldn't have seen that message, because he was answering questions about mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u453	It's about information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u454	That is what I want to do, but the most meaningful debate we can really have on the basis of the commitment I made, namely to speed up the restructuring plan. I shall come back to that in the direction of your Chamber and, of course, we will discuss it in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u455	Okay, so the room just gets information. You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u456	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u457	Thank you. Then I suspend for a few moments until the chair is cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u458	I'll give the Minister for Medical Care the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u459	Thank you, Mr President. It's nice to be in your midst today. I would like to thank Mrs Dik-Faber for the warm words and also the other Members of Parliament who have sent me reports on them. Thank you for that. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks and appreciation to my predecessors Martin van Rijn and Bruno Bruins. I think it is a great honour but also a great responsibility to stand here. I like to do my part. Your Chamber has asked me a number of questions about personal protective equipment, about salaries in care, the appreciation in care and also about regular care, the ic capacity and the provision of care. Let me start with the first, the personal protective equipment. I can at least say that the scarcity seems to be over. I think that's good news. Care organisations themselves responsible for the supply of personal protective equipment can use the regular channels for this. However, the Rural Consortium Tools for the supplement remain approachable and it also remains forward-looking to resolve possible deficits. According to the RIVM guidelines, on which Mrs Marijnissen asked questions, there is also a lot of room for the professional. Mr President, I am a little out of breath. I ran to the bathroom to get back in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u460	Take it easy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u461	I know how you feel about speed, but the result is that you're a little out of breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u462	Why do you do that? The Minister of VWS is taking all the time, so that goes for you too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u463	I know. I'm gonna take a breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u464	We came back just for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u465	I'm gonna take a breath, Mr. Chairman. A number of Members of the Chamber, Mr Asscher, Mrs Sazias and Mrs Marijnissen, have asked: is there really enough for now and for the future? Fortunately, the scarcity seems to be over; I just said it. Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Van de Berg and Mr Jetten have asked whether personal protective equipment could perhaps be used a little more widely, for example to protect care workers who are not involved in a covid situation, or people working in home care or people visiting the nursing home. I have had a number of questions about this and I am happy to answer them. Caregivers who do not have to deal with a covid situation have the possibility to decide in their own professional consideration whether or not they use mouth caps. What I find a very nice manual for this is the brochure that V&VN has issued. In this you see as a professional in which situations you can weigh, for example, to wear or not to wear a personal protective device. Think, for example, of the situation that you are working in disability care and dealing with people who are not fully able to control their own behaviour and with whom you cannot properly discuss whether they themselves have a really good assessment of their health. As a healthcare professional, you can estimate that you are using a personal protective equipment rather than having a long-term care relationship with someone who is very capable of expressing his or her personal health situation. If you look through those glasses, Mr. Jetten asked for visitors to a nursing home, for example, this means the following. In a situation where, for example, people with dementia are present in that nursing home who may have some uncontrollable treaty, it will be more likely that the nursing home will say: we would like visitors to wear masks here too. A nursing home is different from, for example, public transport, because if it is not, you can, so to speak, do a form of triage. You can inform about the health situation of visitors. That's different from public transport. Furthermore, Mrs Van den Berg asked that, if there is further spread in specific situations in the region, the GGD can also advise to use preventive mouth caps in long-term care. Mrs Dik-Faber asked a question that I at least recognized from the conversations I myself have with people in a vulnerable position, for example through a chronic illness or disability, and who are tied to home. They say, "Wouldn't a medical mouth cap like that be a relief for me?" Minister de Jonge has already mentioned that we are talking to people with disabilities, but she specifically asked a question about the availability of, for example, medical mouth caps. I can imagine, if you've been home for a long time, that you're thinking, "Would that be a solution?" That is why we put that question to the RIVM. In particular, it concerns the question of the usefulness and necessity of using medical mouth caps. Especially if people affected by a corona infection were in a life-threatening situation. I expect that we will receive a response from them at the end of this month. By the way, it is true that it is also possible to wear a non-medical mouth cap, if people feel comfortable with it. So that advice is coming. There is a European directive on personal protective equipment, but we apply the RIVM directives. Mrs Marijnissen asked: how about that? One might be a little stricter than the other. I can tell her that we are basing the current principles for the use of personal protective equipment on the situation surrounding infections and, as I pointed out at the beginning, on the professional consideration of the health care provider. As far as this European component is concerned, the ECDC recommends that consideration be given to broadening the use of medical masks and, where the number of infections is increasing, to include the use of mouth caps, possibly preventively. The recent work of the RIVM Centre on Infection Disease Control states that when there are clusters with wider spread in society, the preventive wearing of mouth nose masks by both employees and visitors can be considered, in consultation with the Director of Public Health. This means that we are constantly trying to graft them on each other, but of course we are also following very clearly international developments, both European and non-European. Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Wilders asked whether it would be possible to make more masks in their own country and to be less dependent on abroad. That's an apple that appeals to me very much. I can tell you that there are now several initiatives to this end, both in the area of the production of surgical masks and in the area of FFP2 masks. Agreements are also made on the supply of necessary raw materials for the mouth masks in particular. As far as I am concerned, the cabinet is very much in favour of this initiative, which means that our country will soon be able to provide itself with a substantial part of the Dutch demand so that we can reduce our dependence on abroad. Mr President, this is my contribution to personal protective equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u466	A very short question, Mrs Van den Berg. It's a really short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u467	It is good that there is a desire to be less dependent and self-sufficient in the production of mouth caps. My question was also specifically about the production of the raw material, because I do not think we can do this in the Netherlands at the moment, although we do have the technological knowledge for that. Is the Minister prepared to investigate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u468	I have a positive basic position on this. I'd like to say yes anyway. When it comes to production, I assume that it is also about raw materials. I'd like to make sure and let you know as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u469	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u470	Perhaps at the end of this period and otherwise at the beginning of the next period. Mr. Chairman. Protection is, of course, a very important issue when it comes to the issues of this debate, but also the appreciation which many parties, particularly Mr Asscher and Mrs Marijnissen, have asked for, play an important role. It is therefore specifically about the appreciation of the healthcare professionals. Mrs Marijnissen laid him down very explicitly: is the cabinet prepared to give care professionals structural raises? Let me say first of all that I understand this question very well. Like everyone else in the Netherlands, the cabinet has a great deal of appreciation for the work that people do in the care sector. In my first work visits, I talked to people who work in the ER and people who have been working in the corona crisis. I've heard their stories, and I have a deep respect for them. As far as I'm concerned, people have shown over and over again that they are indispensable. That also means that a decent reward comes with it. There is, of course, the development of the bonus that Mr De Jonge is working on, but I would also like to point out here that it is especially important that the monthly salary that people receive is structurally in order. To ensure a competitive salary development in care, VWS makes additional money available annually to improve working conditions. By 2020, this public contribution amounts to around EUR 1.1 billion and is used by employers to conclude a collective agreement with social partners. I note with good conscience that during the last period a number of collective agreements have been concluded with serious wage increases, for example 5% in the hospitals in January, 3.5% in the vvt on 1 June and recently a 5% increase in the ambulance service on 1 January. Even if you look beyond the last collective agreement, you will see an increasing wage development for healthcare professionals in the decades before. That is also because we are increasing wages with developments in the market. If we were to make an additional contribution in addition to the public contribution that has already been made, it would cost many billions more. At the same time, we are facing a 6% contraction in the economy and there are other things that we consider important. I therefore find it unrealistic and irresponsible to make extra efforts on top of the space that is already being given. However, I would point out that this is without prejudice to the fact that we have shown that there is a decent wage development and that good collective agreements have also been concluded by the current system. That's something I'm very attached to. Mr President, that was the question of wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u471	The minister started out so beautifully that she also thinks that caregivers earn a decent salary, but then she said: it is actually irresponsible to do so. I think there are a number of reasons why things are going wrong there. One. We may be on the eve of a second wave. We need every caregiver we can get. We see that a substantial part of people are considering doing something else simply because they do not feel sufficiently appreciated. I don't think we can afford that. Two. From the point of view of care, there has been a call for a decent appreciation for much longer. Of course, staff shortages are not today's or yesterday's. We've seen it before the corona crisis. In the future, we will need tens of thousands more people in care. We have, of course, talked a great deal here about salaries in health care. We won't have that discussion again. But I really don't think we can afford to allow people who are now working in care to consider doing something else. I really think those people deserve more than just applause and a bonus. Structurally, better appreciation for care is not only good for the people who work in care, but also for our whole country, because we all need these people, all of them, desperately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u472	I think we are in complete agreement on the analysis. If I could draw infinitely from resources, I think that with regard to the solution, we could only fight over the amount. It's not that. Let me say this: I knew it before, too, but ever since I was Minister of Medical Care, I've been finding out more and more how many people in my circle of friends and family or people I meet in the village, work in care or are involved in care. It's topic number one. When they address me, it is often about their work: the organisation of their work and the appreciation of their work, including in the financial sense. So I understand that this is very important. At the same time, when I look at how we organized this, especially compared to other professions in the collective sector or even compared to professions in the market sector, you cannot say that there is an infinite possibility of doing more about it. I have also studied the diversity of functions in healthcare. These, of course, are very wide. That goes from functions at mbo 1 level to very high scales in hospitals. I therefore find it difficult to say 'this is happening in the care sector', because there are also secondary working conditions, for example. I would very much like to address this issue; also because it has one of the highest priorities for people in care. But when I look at the figures and the comparison, including in the international context, I can only say that we have done a number of things really well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u473	Just so we're clear, when I'm talking about raising salaries in health care, I'm talking about the workplace. Then I'm talking about the helpers, the caretakers and the nurses. The people who do the work, so to speak. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The minister actually says: the money is gone, because there is a recession coming. I do have a suggestion for the minister that we might be able to pay for. That's the profit tax. After all, the cabinet still intends to reduce them further for large companies. Let's just not do that. Let us not do that, but say that we are putting the money that this brings into higher salaries for care. Of course, it is a bit harsh to say to the people who have worked hard for and especially in the corona crisis and for whom we have all applauded: sorry, now that you are coming along, the money is gone, because there is a recession coming. I think that's more than harsh. Actually, I don't think you can do that. I make a concrete proposal to the Minister: why not wipe out that crazy idea of lowering the tax on profits by saying: in these times we invest it in our caregivers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u474	I think we showed this. I also tried to explain this. As far as I'm concerned, the system is there for the people and not the other way around. Our system is that we add more than a billion euros from the government so that good collective agreements can be concluded. In doing so, we leave care outside all kinds of budgetary decisions, allowing care to move along with the development in the market. In the last year, even in recent decades, this has led to high wage increases, substantial wage increases, which are far from being achieved in every sector, even in sectors that we all like best, for example in education or in the police sector, where there is much more budgetary room for manoeuvre. In the previous debate, this was also discussed with the Prime Minister. I have also heard Mr Klaver's contribution. I'm not going to repeat that debate. As a cabinet, we have a responsibility to look wider as well. We are also facing a sharp economic contraction. As far as I am concerned, it could be much more, really much more, rather an increase in wages. I can't make it prettier than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u475	I'm really standing here with my ears blazing. It's really unbelievable. In this corona crisis, care heroes have proved to be the most vital profession to overcome this crisis. They have run double services at risk for their own lives, sometimes triple services, without sufficient protective equipment. This answer is unbelievable. I think it's really weird. I'm asking another question. What I find very bizarre is the payment of the health bonus. It'll only take a minute, and it'll only take a minute. On 30 June 2020, we received a contour sketch that states: we are aiming for October. First of all, the application window opens on 1 October 2020. And now it's suddenly: we're aiming for October. When is that health bonus gonna be on those people's tab?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u476	In any event, the window will open on 1 October 2020. Mr De Jonge will explain the process in the second term. I would like to respond to the observation that has been made. I want to express that appreciation. By showing what the extra contribution we are doing, by using all kinds of ways to keep people working well, by focusing on training, by focusing on secondary working conditions, we do want to offer a decent salary, especially if you compare that with other sectors. I think we will have a lot of debates on this, but perhaps it would be good to look at the international states again. I want to start any discussion about the system, because it's for the people. But let it be clear that that appreciation is there in depth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u477	So the caregivers do not notice that this rating is "the deepest." They've gone through the dust. They sang songs for the people who were dying because the family couldn't be there. They have actually brought out the inhuman in themselves to perform an inhumane performance for all those sick, for all those people who needed it and probably need it again. A commitment has been made about a health bonus. I am glad that the Minister will return to that in the second term. Four days ago, the paper said that a hospital pays out a healthcare manager bonus. Then it is said: we did not mean all this; it is all very unfortunate. But those hands on the bed, the people who have gone to extremes, still have no idea when that bonus comes net into their account, while those managers have already received a bonus. That stings and that breaks all the motivation to go back on double shifts when there is a second wave. They're care heroes, so they'll do it, but this is incredible and no way to express your appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u478	I think it is incredibly important, and I also consider that to be one of my most important tasks, assignments to engage and stay in conversation with people who do the work. One of the first things I did was to discuss with them the question of what makes the work so beautiful, because they like to tell about it, but also what makes it bearable, in financial terms, in terms of terms of employment but also by the ability to recover from the first wave and to be ready for the second wave, which of course we all try to avoid. I consider that to be one of the most important tasks I have. That's what I'm constantly talking about with people who work in care. I recognise, to a large extent, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's analysis that people have worked very hard. I would like to express my gratitude for that. I also like to talk to them about how it stays bearable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u479	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u480	I would also very much like to hear in second term whether a solution has now been found for thezzp'ers. The bonuses are paid out to people. That was all difficult, difficult, difficult for thezzp'ers. I would like to hear from the Minister whether there is a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u481	Mr. Chairman. I've got a third set of questions about the ic capacity. Both Mr Wilders and Mr Veldman have asked questions about this. My predecessor, Minister Van Rijn, has asked the National Network of Acute Care to draw up a plan for the ic and clinical beds. That plan was presented to the Chamber on 30 June. The Court has recently been given information on its implementation, both by the regions for acute care, hospitals and healthcare professionals. Mr Veldman asked what the situation is now. We want to increase the ic capacity in three steps. We want to make the current 1,150 beds available. This is mainly a question of finding sufficient staff. That's why we asked the hospitals to let us know how they're gonna do this by August 28th. As of 1 October 2020, we want to extend the ic capacity to 1,350 beds. Then we want to expand the ic capacity flexibly to a total of 1,700 beds by 1 January, so we are ready for the second wave. We can then planally scale up and prepare people who work on the ic in time and well. It is also very important to prevent the acute regular care being pushed out too much. I realize that this also requires a huge effort from all healthcare professionals. I am very grateful to the people who have been involved in the development of this plan. Since the plan comes from them, I say in the direction of Mr Wilders, we have not chosen to apply the German standard. However, in September, the National Network Acute Care came up with an additional plan to reach 3,000 beds. That is in extreme need, and we are of course doing everything we can to prevent it. I have another question from Mrs Sazias. She says: we also need aftercare for patients. Mr De Jonge has already said something about this. This concerns, for example, the extension of physiotherapy. I would like to refer her to the letter I sent to the Chamber on 16 July. In that I took advice to allow paramedical care to the package, so that people have access to the physiotherapist, dietic, the ergotherapist and speech therapy. They are admitted to the basic package on condition that the general practitioner or the medical specialist determines whether someone is appointed to do so. Initially, paramedical recovery care is reimbursed for six months from the start of treatment. It may be extended for a further six months. This concern has in principle been added to the basic package for a period of one year. At the same time, we are investigating how effective this is, so that we can measure the results. Mr President, these were the questions I received from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u482	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u483	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas source and contact research is essential for the containment strategy and the prevention of more infections;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber within two weeks of how the source and contact research will be properly organised, the objectives set, what is needed for this purpose and when the source and contact research functions optimally and complies with the international standard,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas schools should be safe;]] [[Whereas it is impossible for schools to carry out the technical inspection of the ventilation system themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the ventilation systems of all schools are monitored and that additional measures are taken where necessary in consultation with the GGD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas people in quarantine may be seriously affected, e.g. with work, income, groceries and residence;]] [[Whereas social, psychological and material support is therefore needed;]] [[invites the Government to inform the Chamber within one week of how this support will be designed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-472]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-473]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-474]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u484	Mr. Chairman. I spoke in my first term of office about the chaos that became apparent in this cabinet's corona policy after the press conference and subsequent developments. We should not be distracted from our most important task now: as a Chamber, opposition and coalition, reduce the number of infections to zero. That's what this has to be about. Looking back: the mistakes that have been made at the moment are only relevant not to repeat them and to learn from them. I wish the Cabinet every success. But the time of trivializing, the time of "it can be done later," and the time of "it grows but linearly," is over. The number of infections really has to go to zero, for all our sakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u485	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u486	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas many people with an increased health risk, including people with a disease and people with disabilities, have been afraid of being infected in public space since the outbreak of corona;]] [[believes that people with an increased health risk should also be able to participate as much as possible in society in times of corona;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with organisations of people with an increased health risk to hear what they need to be able to participate fully, and to provide for it as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to use (international) research into the impact of corona on people with an increased health risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-475]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u487	Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I talked about the importance of testing and the fact that we should actually do more. I have referred to what happens now in top sport: make sure you create safe bubbles in which you can work. I also think that this should be done in the care sector. It has been going on for a while in the debate, but I do have a motion, because in the debate it was mainly about the fact that you should be able to test preventively. But this is really about periodically, periodically, testing people almost every week, so you're sure they're corona-free. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that the high numbers of infections and deaths in nursing homes and home care should be prevented at all times in the future this spring;]] [[Whereas low-threshold testing of care staff contributes to the prevention of infections of patients and colleagues;]] [[Considers that periodic tests, such as those carried out in sport, should also be available for care;]] [[calls on the government, through pilots, to allow nursing homes or home care organisations to periodically carry out preventive testing at their own premises,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-476]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first motion concerns personal protective equipment in healthcare, because we are not at all satisfied. The RIVM standard is still such that caregivers can deviate from it on a reasoned basis if they want to wear protective equipment while they are not yet infected. We believe that it should simply be the norm that all caregivers can benefit from personal protective equipment whenever they so wish. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the use of personal protective equipment makes an important contribution to the prevention of COOVID-19 infections by both healthcare professionals and patients;]] [[Whereas it is essential that caregivers be able to perform their work safely;]] [[points out that caregivers should always be able to use personal protective equipment if they consider it necessary;]] [[calls for the RIVM Directive on the use of personal protective equipment for healthcare professionals to be amended so that all healthcare providers can also use personal protective equipment preventively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-477]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u489	It may not surprise you, but my second motion is about salaries in health care, simply because I think we really cannot afford to have caregivers who are even considering doing something else. We need them desperately, they deserve protection and appreciation, and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona infections is increasing;]] [[noting that there is already a shortage of staff in the care sector;]] [[points out that we need all caregivers desperately, especially when there is a second wave, and that a structurally better appreciation of caregivers is needed to ensure that caregivers want to continue to work in care;]] [[calls on the government to have a plan ready with Princess Day to give caregivers a better structural appreciation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-478]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u490	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u491	Madam President. What a huge dent in the attention of the Minister of Health that he comes up with a proposal, half withdraws it, gets no support from anyone and makes sure that almost no one will be tested or use the app anymore. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to actively persuade contact persons of people infected with corona to comply with the quarantine and to refrain from both the mandatory quarantine and the related criminality, in order not to undermine the support for the detection of corona through testing and source and contact investigations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-479]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u492	Then a motion on the salary of the people in the care, the structural salary. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in line with its French colleagues, to give the care workers who still have to receive the €1,000 coronabonus a substantial increase in salaries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-480]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u493	And finally, Mr. Chairman, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to recognise the important proportion of corona contamination by microdrops (aerosols) in indoor spaces and to require that the Building Decision be adapted to require appropriate ventilation in indoor areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-481]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u494	I would like to point out to the Minister of Health, who is now playing with his phone, if he has a moment on an article in The New York Times yesterday, called A Smoking Gun: Infectious Coronavirus Retrieved From Hospital Air, which shows that an investigation by the University of Florida, they call it groundbreaking, has scientifically shown that indeed the role of aerosols in infections is important, is substantial. That's not like you and RIVM said before. Hence the motion, but perhaps you can read it and that you can also respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u495	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u496	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the existing possibility provided for in Article 35 Wpg, the Cabinet is considering introducing additional obligations in the Wpg to make it compulsory to cooperate with the source and contact investigation (BCO);]] [[Considers that obligation-based criminalisation can reduce support for participation in BCO and testing, and that it is better to motivate people than to oblige them to cooperate;]] [[calls on the Government not to introduce any new legal quarantine obligations and related criminal offences for people who are in the picture in source and contact investigations, and to use existing possibilities for quarantine obligations and related criminal offences for the time being only in the case of positively tested people, if all other (voluntary) means are exhausted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Bonaire, unlike the countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin, may not require a negative corona test as a condition for visiting the island;]] [[Whereas Bonaire is particularly vulnerable to an outbreak, partly because the island does not have any active ic;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that Bonaire can protect himself against infections by travellers, if possible by the same test obligation imposed by the Autonomous States of the Kingdom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Haga, Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Krol, Mr Van Esch, Mr Sazias, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Hiddema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-482]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Paternotte, Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Azarkan, Mr Sazias, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van Esch, Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-483]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u497	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM reports during the briefing that faster and more tests are needed to identify new infections;]] [[noting that several countries are proactively testing travellers from countries at risk, even without complaints;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the urgent advice for home quarantine, to allow all travellers arriving from orange areas via air, land or sea to test themselves on the day of arrival and after the fourth day, regardless of whether the traveller has any complaints,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-484]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS for having a conversation with the people of #NoDorHout, vulnerable people with disabilities. Thanks to the Minister for Medical Care for at least investigating the availability of raw materials for mouth caps here in the Netherlands. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona infections has increased too rapidly in recent weeks;]] [[believes that every effort should be made to prevent a second wave, both for the benefit of public health and for the benefit of the economy;]] [[Considers that the government has a number of targets, such as preventing the overload of care and protecting vulnerable people, including the R-value, the number of infectious persons and the number of people tested positively;]] [[Considers that this could be intensified in the field of communication on why the corona measures, the enforcement of those corona measures, tighter source and contact research and clearer instructions on:]] [[ventilation of schools, healthcare establishments and businesses;]] [[the use of mouth caps when working with vulnerable people, such as in nursing homes;]] [[meetings of students;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate as clearly as possible with what measures and with which steps it intends to reduce the spread of the virus, and to report this in the progress notes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van den Berg, Veldman, Dik-Faber, Jetten, Azarkan, Van der Staaij, Van Esch, Sazias, Asscher and Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-485]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u499	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Health does not communicate enough: he sends through the rearview mirror, his headlights fail, the wipers are broken and according to Ernst Kuipers of the National Network Acute Care there is a storm coming. Give people clarity. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas effective behavioural change is necessary for the control of the coronavirus;]] [[calls on the government to consider improving corona communication by introducing, for example, colour alerts and linking clear behaviours so that the population knows what behaviour is expected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-486]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u500	Color adjustment can be very easy, Madam President. Look at my tie.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u501	I don't get it, but it's probably just me. Thank you, Mr. Krol. Mrs Sazias has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u502	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers and in particular the Prime Minister for his commitment to talk to the elderly and their families. He's pointing at Minister De Jonge, I see. No, you promised. Together? Fine. And know that it's highly appreciated. Mr. Chairman. We still have concerns about the sampling of the caregivers. I know some hospitals are doing very well. There, hospitals have their own test booth. But I also know a hospital where nurses should just be on the waiting list at the G.D.D. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to reports, a lot of time is lost when planning tests and calling the results, including when testing care personnel;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that care personnel can always be tested as a matter of priority and also to ensure that test results from healthcare professionals are made available to them as soon as possible in order to minimise the risk of infection and avoid unnecessary absenteeism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-487]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u503	Thank you, Mr President. We've had a debate here about ventilation. Mr Wilders just came up with a breaking article on aerosols. We are not at all reassured about this, nor about the lack of commitment that is now going towards the nursing homes and schools. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research has shown that viral particles can also spread by air;]] [[whereas RIVM states that a ventilation system must comply with the Construction Decision and that recirculating air must be avoided;]] [[noting that even the most modern ventilation systems are often poorly adjusted;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct schools and nursing homes to check as quickly as possible whether the ventilation systems they use on paper and in daily practice meet the requirements of the Building Decision and the RIVM standards, and to inform the Chamber before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-488]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u504	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the cabinet for answering the questions asked. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an effective approach to the spread of the coronavirus involves a good and rapid testing policy in order to be able to conduct contact research as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas a good and rapid testing policy with associated contact research can prevent any new regional outbreak;]] [[noting that the GGD is unable to provide the applicant with a test result in different regions within the set standard time and that the GGDs in Amsterdam and Rotterdam have scaled down in the source and contact research;]] [[noting that there is a fine-meshed network of first-line diagnostic centres that can contribute to an effective approach to testing and tracing;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to the work of the GGD, to deploy capacity of non-GGD, such as the first-line diagnostic centres, for testing and source and contact research, and to inform the Chamber within one month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-489]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u505	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important that students' introductory weeks take place in a safe manner and that the Cabinet has therefore taken some measures to promote this;]] [[noting that the government has made a distinction between study and sports associations on the one hand and student associations on the other in the measures adopted for the introduction weeks;]] [[considers that the nature of the activity should be paramount and not the type of association that organises such an introductory activity;]] [[Whereas there is local intensive contact between security region, institutions and students on responsible activities;]] [[calls on the Government to enter into consultation with the Security Council to consider whether student associations can safely be able to organise informational recruitment and introduction activities in the same way as study and sports associations, provided, of course, within the prescribed measures and with the approval of higher education institutions, security region and municipality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Paternotte, Mr Bruins, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Klaver and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-490]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering all the questions that have been asked. I still have a few points. First of all, passengers from at-risk areas. I voted in favour of Mr Jetten's motion because I think it is important that travellers from at-risk areas should in principle all be tested. I also believe that the cabinet can do more to discourage travel to areas at risk. We know that one carrier has been called upon to do so. Why does this not happen to many more carriers? We just really don't want people going on vacation to the Turkish sunspots. That's just not possible. So my question is this: address transporters, so that we no longer have those thousands of people per day from at-risk areas. I also signed the motion tabled by Mr Veldman on student associations. That is also important for my group. I co-signed Mr Jetten's motion on the quarantine. I would also like to say that I like it when initiatives such as #Not only do the Red Cross have to be involved in supporting people who are just having trouble keeping to that quarantine, so people who do want to, but need practical help. It would therefore be nice to look at this, and also at the social side, for example when it comes to the loss of income. Finally, I have a motion, which I would like to make despite a number of commitments, also because of the 'pronouncing'. She's short. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by client organisations shows that many people with disabilities or chronic illness have been at home since March because they cannot comply with the 1.5 metres, cannot follow clues or are afraid of infections;]] [[points out that everyone is valuable and must feel safe in order to participate fully in our society;]] [[calls on the Government to work out solutions in consultation with client organisations, including the preventive provision of mouth masks for specific groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Veldman and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u507	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u508	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply, and wish the newly appointed Minister for Medical Care much strength and wisdom. Mr. Chairman. I don't have a motion to make myself, so I can speak quietly. That has its advantages, too. But I have noticed that on the points that I myself have addressed in my contribution and also in interruptions, motions have already been tabled. I have signed motions with which I can wholeheartedly endorse. I would first like to mention the motion tabled and explained by Mr Jetten on the subject of quarantine measures. I co-signed that motion. The second point I would like to mention here is education. The schools are opening up. So, what's next with the ventilation? I think that is a little too non-binding, so I will also support the Asscher/Klaver motion on this. Finally, I will also support the motions that have still been made in relation to student associations. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u509	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u510	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. Governing is forward-looking. This cabinet nevertheless made a considerable error of assessment as regards the capacity of the source and contact research. Insufficient consideration has been given to a rapid recovery of the virus in the summer. The restructuring plan wrongly assumed that the GGD could be strong in the summer months with a capacity of 1,500 FTEs. That leads to a lot of confusion. In my first contribution I spoke about communication, and again today we saw a contribution showing how poorly communicated. Yesterday it was reported that it would become a criminal offence if you didn't go into quarantine, and today it has to be revoked again. That leads to chaos, and that also leads to uncertainty, and I really don't think that's a good thing. I see that happen too often. We saw it with the corona app, we see it with the corona law, the emergency law. That just has to stop. It has also been indicated that too few people want to participate actively in testing. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM stresses the importance of prior testing for corona;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a comprehensive information campaign on the importance of testing for corona-related complaints as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-492]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u511	Mr. Chairman. I also spoke in my first speech about holding regular press conferences on a weekly basis. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona infections is increasing and that the urgency of complying with the basic rules is weakening;]] [[calls on the Government to hold a press conference on a regular basis, preferably weekly, to raise awareness of the urgency and bring society with it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-493]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u512	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u513	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. It's been carefully synchronized with our prime minister's mouse hole. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students are allowed to get acquainted with study and sports associations but not with social associations;]] [[Whereas this measure has a far-reaching impact on the lives of many students;]] [[Whereas a good protocol reduces the risks;]] [[calls on the Government to examine in the very near future whether and under what conditions students can continue to become acquainted with social associations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Hiddema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-494]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u515	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u516	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions from our side. The first motion is about flying to high-risk areas. Among other things, the Christian Union has already mentioned this. As far as we are concerned, that is very worrying. We can see that there are still advertisements coming through for unnecessary air travel and thousands of people come back from those risk areas every day and still fly there. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that aviation has played a role in the spread of the corona virus around the world;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[Whereas thousands of people return from areas at risk a day;]] [[calls on the Government to more actively discourage air travel to areas at risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Esch, Mr Van Raan, Mr Azarkan and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u517	My second motion is still about mink farming. Thank you for pointing out that at the end of August there will be a return to the opinions already given by the OMT-Z. But at the moment it does not reassure us enough to wait until the end of August. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Outbreak Management Team-Zoönosen (OMT-Z) advised on 20 July to accelerate the phasing-out of mink farming in order to prevent a potential source of contamination from persisting;]] [[noting that the OMT-Z also wrote that this opinion could be reconsidered if the situation surrounding the spread of the coronavirus in the Netherlands changes;]] [[Whereas the situation regarding the spread of the corona virus in the Netherlands has deteriorated significantly since then;]] [[calls on the Government to ask OMT-Z for a new opinion on the accelerated phasing-out of mink farming,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u518	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u519	Mr. Chairman. I have two, fundamental rights protection motions to keep compulsive mayors in check. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that both the government and RIVM have opposed the use of non-medical mouth caps in the streets, because they offer "nothing add" and "fake safety";]] [[noting that the mayors of Amsterdam and Rotterdam recognise that a mouth cover has no medical value, but nevertheless decided to subject citizens to a behavioral experiment requiring them to wear a non-medical mouth cap (under penalty of a fine);]] [[having regard to the opinion of the public prosecutors that the obligation to protect the mouth violates fundamental rights and should therefore not be imposed by mayors;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for bona fide citizens to be subjected involuntarily to unlawful behavioral experiments that violate their fundamental rights;]] [[calls on the government to urge the mayors concerned to stop the unlawful and freedom-limiting behavior experiments immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-497]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u520	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona measures have resulted in numerous demonstrations being banned or severely restricted;]] [[noting that the many demonstrations at home and abroad in recent months which did not comply with corona measures have not led to a visible increase in the number of infections;]] [[Whereas the corona measures constitute an disproportionate infringement of the constitutionally protected right of demonstration;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the corona measures applicable to outdoor demonstrations with the knowledge and experience of today and, where possible, to withdraw the measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hiddema and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u521	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u522	Mr. Chairman. There was one question from the first term, from Mrs Dik-Faber, about Belgium and border traffic. In fact, as I said, I have just double-checked the fact that there is an exception for border workers and necessary family visits. That is one aspect. I had already promised that the impact of measures and amending travel advice would be discussed in cross-border consultations, and we will continue to address the issue of cross-border catering; this will therefore be discussed in the consultations. The exception applies to cross-border workers and necessary family visits. Mr. Chairman. We have divided the motions in such a way that we discuss all three motions on our own territory, on which we have answered questions and on which we have been responsible. I'll start with the motion in part No. 490, van Veldman, Paternotte, Bruins, Van den Berg, Klaver and Van Haga. In itself, I can leave that motion to the House's judgment, but with due regard to how I formulated it, namely that we are going to look into the Security Council. I also read the motion how we can align what we are doing for sports and study associations, plus how we can open up the possibility for associations to introduce themselves to students. The motion in part No. I would advise against Mr Azarkan's 493. Of course, if I have to, I can pay attention to issues every Friday at the press conference, but we, Hugo de Jonge and I, will organize regular press conferences in which we could share the latest insights, views and measures. But we do not want to do that in a sort of recorded rhythm, because that also depends on the situation. I would therefore advise against this motion, but I think I take what is in it, namely the importance of continuous communication. We're really aware of that. The Van Haga/Hiddema motion in part No. 494 I would advise against. Van Haga, I think, had that other motion, on the same subject, No. 490, co-signed. That motion, with the interpretation I just gave, I was fine with it. This is a case we really need to discuss with the Security Council. In addition, there is also the observation that a protocol reduces the risks, but we simply do not know that. Those protocols are good work, but that's no guarantee. I would actually like to say that stick to the motion with the many signatories and do not make this motion. The motion in part No. 494 has therefore been dissuaded. The Van Esch c.s. motion. in piece No. I leave 495 to the judgment of the Chamber. The travel advice is clear: do not go to orange areas unless necessary. Vacation is not necessary and it is therefore not neat to advertise. But again, we can't force any of that. The Ministry of IenW also wishes, if necessary, to draw the attention of the travel organisations to the special nature of that type of travel. With that, I think the motion can be carried out. It also fits in with the debate. Then there is the motion Hiddema/Van Haga in part No. 497. We believe it is important that these pilots can be carried out. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Then there is the motion Hiddema/Van Haga in part No. 498. The 1.5 meter is always valid, so also at demonstrations. I must therefore also advise against this motion. Then my suggestion, Mr President, would be that you should now give the floor to Mr De Jonge and then to Mrs Van Ark, who, moreover, has agreed to remain in favour of the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u523	Okay, that's good to hear, thank you. It's happened before. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u524	Mr. Chairman. Two more questions first. One question was left behind from the first term. It was about the health bonus. The planning is as I indicated before the summer. The window will open on 1 October. Then the applications are possible and employers are paid out as soon as possible to pass on money to their employees. So that's going to play as soon as possible after October 1st. Then, in response to Mr Asscher's request for a written reply to the NOS message. I will do so in writing as soon as possible. A short version of the story is: yes, I do recognize that there was a lot of discussion at that time between the directors of public health whether the assumptions were correct. That actually makes sense, because the assumptions had to be made at that time without practical experience. So RIVM has been asked how many people were actually there with respiratory complaints and how high the rate of infection could be. Those bandwidths were pretty wide in which it advised RIVM. Then one looked in one's own house at how many hours one thought to need for the source and contact research. At first it was estimated that it was thought possible in five hours. This had to do with the experience of the number of contacts that were made, but that was of course in the lockdown phase, so fellow directors of those who had given the first impetus for that assessment said: yes, but you will of course get a relaxation of the measures, so assume that it will be higher. And we had the discussion in the Chamber, where you were the driving force behind it: yes, but, guys, look at the call-up in that quarantine phase, that's part of it. Because if you don't, you're gonna miss an important part of that source and contact research. This has led to the raising of the starting point from five to eight hours. So is it true that there was a discussion about that? Yeah, that's definitely true, quite. And in any case, it was written in the introduction to that plan: we will now apply these principles, but let us assume that the practice shows that the principles of course also need to be reviewed at some point. So I have now asked you to do so more quickly, and we will come to the content of this. I'll put that on paper for a while. Then it's coming your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u525	The Minister will get over it very quickly. The application counter will open on 1 October. That is, of course, richly late, but fortunately it is not later. My motion has, of course, already been adopted at the beginning of the crisis and the care heroes have been waiting for months. Can the Minister give an indication when that money is in the care heroes' account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u526	Yes. As soon as possible after that. Of course, we wanted to do the execution very carefully. There are so many people working in healthcare. If you don't want to make mistakes in this, you're gonna have to do it carefully. That is why it really needed some time to do this in the implementation in a good way. The right question from employers, which we have also discussed before, was: make a very clear definition so that it does not become a discussion with us in the workplace. This must of course also be discussed with employers and employees. That's being done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u527	Yes, but this debate has been held extensively, so really briefly address the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u528	Yes, as soon as possible after October 1st.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u529	You too know how important it is. But very briefly, otherwise we will do the debate again. This is the second term, and we're working on the motions. Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u530	Mr President, I understand that, but there is quite rightly a lot of unrest among healthcare professionals that this bonus is only waiting and that there is still much unclear. Four days ago, however, they had to read in the newspaper that managers of a certain hospital have already received a health bonus. That is completely unrelated to this health bonus, of course, but it does create confusion and it really is very demotivating for all those people who have worked so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u531	I don't think it's that bad. What we are doing is exactly what the motion is asking for. This is a complex arrangement, which means, in its implementation: 1 October, open window. Applications can then be submitted on the basis of the definition determined. The benefit will then be settled as quickly as possible through the employers. So that's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u532	Yes, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u533	Then there's the motions. First of all, the motion by Mr Asscher and others. in piece No. 472, asks the government to inform within two weeks how the source and contact research will be organized et cetera. This is very much in line with the government's commitment and, I think, is an adequate conclusion of the first deadline. For that reason, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 473. The operative part says: "calls on the Government to ensure that the ventilation systems of all schools are checked'. It doesn't say that the government has to do that itself, but to make sure that it does. If I can really explain to him that way, and I can really underline that, also in the context of the debate we have had on this subject, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I would like to discuss 488 briefly, because that is Mrs Sazias' motion. It has a number of other accents, because it really puts responsibility on the government's plate. I do not think this fits in with the existing division of responsibility, because we really cannot live up to all kinds of reporting obligations. So the motion in part No. 488 I don't recommend. Then the motion-Asscher c.s. in piece No. 474 on the quarantine package. I have indicated that I think that is important, in order to remove the thresholds. There is a very tight deadline, namely within a week. I can't do that. Here's what I'm gonna do. In the elaboration of the quarantine measures that I intend to take in any case, I shall return to this point. That'll take at least a week or two. Maybe the lessons learned from around September 1st. Some of the lessons that experts put forward also touch on this. We need to lower the threshold for quarantine. There's a lot going on. I think it's good to give that overview sometime. I'd leave the verdict to the Chamber, but I think a week is a very tight deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u534	Mr Asscher, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u535	The Minister can interpret it that way. It's about "as soon as possible." I would add that, in itself, I am quite in favour of such an obligation, but I think that this should be put in order first. Other motions are going to be put to the vote, so I think it is in the interest of an effective approach to doing so very quickly. That's why we set that deadline for a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u536	If I can read the motion as "as soon as possible," I think we can find each other. Then there is the Klever/Jetten motion in part No. 475, which calls on the government to engage with organisations of people with an increased health risk. I would, of course, like to leave the judgment on that motion to the House. Then the motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 476 over the pilots. In fact, we have not sufficiently discussed this. That is because I did not answer Mr Klaver's question in the first term. Because I would have liked to say to him...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u537	How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u538	Yeah, it's incomprehensible, actually. That's what you see. Actually, I'm going to have to answer a little more in-depth. I would have liked to say that this is already happening, but not generic of course. That would also be far too incriminating. You can't test 100,000 people generically periodically in a nursing home. A test isn't just a nice experience, I'm just saying. But where it does happen, it's in cluster outbreaks. That's where the G.D.D.'s already doing this. I call the nursing home in Dordrecht and that in Maassluis. I know the G.D.D. is on top of that. Once every few days they do that periodic testing, in consultation with an epidemiologist and with a doctor infecting disease control at the GGD. So that's what's happening. Let me discourage this motion, but let me immediately give you the undertaking to let you know how the GGD is dealing with it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u539	Yes, incomprehensible that that question had been forgotten, of course. I already hear "serious," but this is taken into account in the function interview.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u540	"Painful," I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u541	But in all seriousness about this motion, this is not just about the situation when there are outbreaks. I made the comparison to sporting events. If it goes well, you try to make sure it stays outside and you actually try to make it a little wider. I think this is important, because we will need to make more use of these tests as the pandemic lasts longer. So the question is whether it could also be used a little wider. I think the motion is really in line with the direction we are heading in. Then I don't fully understand the dissuading of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u542	Because this deals with a far too generic application of periodic tests in nursing care. That would be far too burdensome at the moment, with the current design of testing. Regular tests should be done where it makes sense. That's in a cluster outbreak. Then you need to run periodic tests to get that cluster breach under control again. This would be about a much more generic use of asymptomatic testing in nursing homes. That is really a far too burdensome measure at the moment. Imagine that at some point there is a breath test, then it is another story, also in the load of testing. In short, in the current context a generic use of periodically asymptomatic testing in a nursing home would be too burdensome. Specifically, it has been applied for a long time now. I have just said: let me explain what is happening at the moment and then let us continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u543	If we wanted to do this for all the nursing homes, make it really generic, we'd have a big problem. That's not what I'm suggesting either. I'm talking about pilots. I also know what kind of tax it could be for the care staff. I talked to them about it. But there are also institutions and people who say: we would like to try this. So look at some locations where you could try this. I don't know if it works either, but maybe the effects are really good. I do not think it is true that it is too generic and too burdensome. I'm really asking for a pilot. It's about the few locations where you could do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u544	I'm gonna stick with the dissuade. Again, if you don't appreciate the promise, I won't do it. But I'd actually just like to write out for you what's happening right now, also in relation to asymptomatic testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u545	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u546	I'm getting a commitment to something I didn't ask for. I can pretend to be very happy about that, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u547	Then I'm gonna tip him off. It's not as poetic as I wanted it to end, but then I'd advise him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u548	I think we're working here on the basis of arguments. The first argument which would discourage the motion is, in my view, invalidated. Then I'll switch to a second argument. By this I indicate that it is not about generic testing at all. The Minister then insists that the motion be discouraged. The whole debate was about the importance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u549	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u550	I'm finishing up, but the whole debate was about the importance. I'm taking a little more space, because I forgot that in the first term, of course... What you see is, that... whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u551	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u552	In my opinion, we should be doing ourselves the pleasure of getting this discussion back at some point. I will give rise to this in any letter, without, of course, making a commitment to Mr Klaver if he does not appreciate it. I can't make you happy against your will. I will really give rise to a number of letters to resume this discussion, because it is too interesting in substance to leave, but it is not yet enough to conclude this motion. In short, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 479. With reference to the first term, I advise against this motion. This also applies to motion in part No. 481. I will admit to Mr Wilders that I naturally want to read the article from The New York Times. I was already sent it, but it was via the app and I hesitated for a moment if Mr Wilders allowed me to open it. So I haven't read it yet. I tend to say that it is wise that the OMT involves that type of scientific insights over and over again. Once again, the possibility of diffusion via aerosols is not denied, but its importance to the extent to which it is distributed in this way is considered less important than you consider it to be. Nevertheless, if there is new research that points to that, then that should be involved in the insights and the thought formation at the OMT. So I'll read it myself, but I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u553	Do I get any response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u554	Yeah, I'm fine. I assume that's where people read The New York Times every day, of course. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 482. In the suspension I had some time to do a good close reading of the operative part. I think that is simply in line with what I myself have brought in, namely: given the discussion we are having, I consider the importance of a more binding design of the quarantine to be important. The Chamber says "beware, because behavioural effects" and the Chamber says "maybe for infected clients, but not yet for contacts. Work that out first and then we'll talk about it." I think it is fine to do so, and it is actually the same in this operative part. In my opinion, the first half is in line with the phenomenon of reintroducing any criminalisation for people involved in BCO. So we're not gonna do that yet, but we're gonna explore that. I shall come back to the Chamber first. For existing possibilities for quarantine obligations, I have already made a commitment. In short, I think that this is in line with the speech I made to the Chamber, and that leaves the judgment to the Chamber. Dan Bonaire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u555	What's going on behind you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u556	Yeah, I'd like to know that, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u557	The Prime Minister's still here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u558	Take your time. Don't bother us. Mr President, do you think it is justified to continue the debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u559	Yes. I think it's very good to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u560	Then the motion to part No. 483 on Bonaire. I've heard what you're asking about that, and I get it. At the same time, I would say that this exploration could eventually end in a legislative amendment. It could be. I had announced a few more, so they can go with that right away. I leave this to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 484. I would ask you to await the advice of the OMT. This week, the OMT is going to advise on how asymptomatic testing can be used most effectively, including with regard to the group of travellers. For example, it says here already day 4 and that is not what is being considered at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u561	Anyway, let's wait for the OMT's advice first, because this is virological material. I do not think we, as politicians, should venture to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u562	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u563	The motion in part No. 484?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u564	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u565	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (25295, No. 484). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u566	Then the motion to part No. 485. This is another motion that you can put on the bookshelf at the final exam vo. However, I believe that it is asking for something very sensible, namely to indicate very clearly what measures and intermediate steps we are going to take to reduce the spread of the virus. I can see that I am going to do this very extensively in the "1 September letter"; that's just what I'm calling him. That's the letter about the lessons learned. It's about how to prevent the second wave and how to catch the second wave better when it comes. I honestly believe that we will go into this in more detail in all the progress notes that follow. So I'm gonna leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 486. About the color alerts, I said I'm attached to the signal readings. I initially intended to try to capture this by colors, but I came back to that because I feared that the weighting of signal values would be too much. So I'm going to dissuade this motion anyway. Then the motion to part No. 487. Mr Sazias asked the government to always have the care staff tested as a matter of priority. That is very complicated in the work process. I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Sazias. Our commitment should be to shorten the whole test process at all. Why? This should be done from the point of view of infectious disease control. If you shorten that for the whole, you have shortened it for the care staff as well. I honestly think I'm going to discourage this motion. Then the motion to part No. 489. This motion calls on the government to use, in addition to the work of the GGD capacity of other than the GGD, such as the first-line diagnostic centres. I believe that this is in line with the debate we had on this subject. With reference to this, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Azarkan then asked the government to launch a comprehensive information campaign on the importance of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u567	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u568	Sorry, the motion to part No. 492.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u569	The motion in part No. 492. Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u570	... to highlight the importance of testing for corona-related complaints as soon as possible. I don't think it's necessary. You can't turn on the radio or TV or trip over the commercials. We'll intensify them in every possible way. So if people don't know right now that it's very wise to have you tested, then I don't remember. In terms of target group communication, we can take another step. I will come up with proposals on this, because I think this is really necessary. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u571	The verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u572	Needless to say. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u573	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u574	The same goes for the next motion, of which I can no longer read the song. It's the motion in part No. 496 on mink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u575	Mrs Van Esch has something to say about this. Yeah, you don't have to say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u576	You don't have to say anything, because I'm moving him in. We have other information, so we don't need it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u577	Well, that's how easy it can be!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u578	Since the Van Esch motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u579	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u580	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u581	While we're waiting for the switch, I'm holding the motion in part number. 476 on. This motion is about testing. That's what the debate was about just now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u582	At the request of Mr Klaver, I propose his motion (25295, No. 476). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u583	I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u584	Thank you, Mr President. There are four motions left for me to assess. I'll start with the motion in part No. 477 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher. The motion concerns the amendment of the RIVM Directive. I advise against this motion. This is mainly due to the fact that RIVM is about the directives. Those directives shall be drawn up on the basis of experts. I think it would be wise to stay away from that as a policy. Secondly, however, the RIVM directive already states that the preventive wearing of personal protective equipment can be considered by health care workers. This can also be discussed with the regional GGD, e.g. in the case of wider dissemination or widespread community transmission. Then the motion to part No. 478. I am, of course, abstaining from a judgment in the'spoken out' section. Because of the part that's about preparing a plan for caregivers, I'm dissuading the motion. In the debate, I fully discussed the financial system that concerns the remuneration of healthcare workers, resulting in positive collective bargaining developments. I do not think that an additional increase is realistic, given the worrying economic situation in which we find ourselves. The same argument applies to Mr Wilders' motion on item No. 480. I'm deceiving that motion. That brings me to Mrs Dik-Faber's motion, Mrs Van den Berg, Mr Veldman and Mr Jetten's motion for a resolution. 491. It also has a'speaks out' section on which I do not, of course, give an opinion. I've already told you in my term how I'm supposed to do that. I feel very related to that. With regard to the request, I will give this motion judgment Chamber. I would like to say, however, that at the moment the Cabinet, Mr De Jonge, has said the necessary to implement the strategy for people with disabilities, and that we want to make it possible to return to normal life as much as possible and prepare for a possible second wave. At the moment we are talking to experts about lessons learned and necessary steps. To this end, we are also carrying out Mrs van den Berg's motion. If I can read the motion in such a way that I can include it in it, I'd be delighted to give her a Chamber of Judgement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u585	I would like to say a few words about the motion on part No. 480, the motion on the additional salary increase for Dutch healthcare workers. Did I hear correctly that the Minister said that she would advise against it because of the worrying economic and financial situation in the Netherlands? Did she just say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u586	I also have the argument for Mrs Marijnissen and others' motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). First of all, it was a matter of substance, namely that we have a system which at least, as I have pointed out, has led to a number of positive collective bargaining developments. In addition, in the interruption debate with Mrs Marijnissen, I indicated that the current economic situation, with a reduction of 6%, does not allow this discussion to take place. Both arguments also apply to Mr Wilders' motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u587	Finally, Mr President. Now it's really breaking my clog. As Europe, we are giving 40 billion to France as well as 40 billion to the Netherlands. We're giving 80 billion to Italy. We give 40 billion as Europe. There's at least 2 billion of them from the Netherlands. That's what we give to the French. They're gonna raise the salary of their care workers. And we are now hearing, while we are talking to the carers in France, not the Dutch because of the economic situation. That's impossible, isn't it? You can't be serious. Our caregivers won't get it because we'll give the money to the French. Well, it shouldn't get any crazier on your first gig here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u588	I think that over the last few months we have shown that we have been able to use the current economic situation to support Dutch society very widely. I have argued that, in addition, every year, at least in 2020, more than 1 billion will be allocated to create space to conclude a good collective agreement for care. In addition, Mr De Jonge told us that the window for the bonus will open on 1 October. That's a list I'd like to sign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u589	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-12-tweedekamer-4.u590	I'd like to suspend ten minutes before the vote. Are you guys okay with that? I hear the Prime Minister and the Minister of VWS are leaving. The Minister for Medical Care will remain present at the votes. Then I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the United States of America. They're gonna be all over it. Thank you and see you next time.
