ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u1	Then we quickly move on to the VAO Application of the white payroll tax table to SBF benefits. I'm gonna suspend for a minute so the Secretary of State can join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u2	I have just indicated that the VAO is dealing with the application of the white income tax table to SBF benefits. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Finance. I would also like to welcome Members of Parliament. A total of three Members of Parliament have applied to make a substantive contribution. In addition, two MPs are present. First of all, I give the floor to Mrs Leijten for her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Prison staff reaching a certain age were asked to take leave to make way for newcomers. This was covered by the scheme by substantially heavier professions. Now a wage model was used. In the table you have green and white. One gets a tax discount and the other doesn't. As a result, a group that took that compulsory leave did not receive certain tax rebates between 2010 and 2013, which was later repaired. That feels very unfair to them, because it is about thousands of euros. This group isn't big. It's about 500 to 600 people. They've been ringing the bell for a while. We have asked written questions: don't move. We had a brief AO, and I was allowed to make one appeal on behalf of the entire Chamber as rapporteur, namely: solve it. Well, during that AO there was ping-ponged between "that can't be covered by the Ministry of Justice and Security as an old employer" and "it can't be covered by the Ministry of Finance that deals with the tax pay tables." I find it really sad that it is seven years since this mistake has been corrected by law and that you do not take care of it for a small group of people. I call on this Secretary of State to take care of it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that from 2010 to 2013 prison staff entered SBF leave and were not able to make use of labour rebates and were therefore financially disadvantaged compared to those on leave after 2013;]] [[having also noted that the leave was taken at the request of the Judicial Institutions Service and thereby of the Government;]] [[calls on the Government to put in place a system to compensate those SBFs who have been disadvantaged in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Leijten and Mr Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-667]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. I have had little time to agree with fellow room members, but my appeal is exactly the same. Just fix it! That was also the call at the end of the debate and the commitment of the two leaders who were there. Then there was a letter that said "difficult." We've had some new laws since then. Some laws can look back 15 years in time. When repairing the Awir, the argument that you can only look back five years doesn't quite do it. Those seven years are also a little due to the fact that one department points to another department. I hope to be able to merge my motion with another motion later or to do something with it so that it can produce something. But my motion is: solve it and share it with the Chamber. Exactly how you do it, we don't think it's very important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make an ultimate effort to find a solution in the SBF file, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31066-668]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u5	We often talk about our Chamberwork and working together. I think this is an embarrassment. Yesterday I sent something around and asked: can we get out of here? I did hear something from a fellow opposition party and nothing from three coalition parties. And now there's a motion of our own. I just don't like the look of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u6	This is right. I have to say quite frankly that I am also working on something else these days and that I have not read my mailbox completely. As a result, your motion escaped me half an hour ago and I made it. It's no different than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mrs. Leijten, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u8	I can understand that, but the pattern inside is that I didn't hear from all three coalition parties. We did that debate with five MPs then, and I emailed them all. That Mr Omtzigt also has other things, I understand. But we actually have two identical motions. I know where it is. The Ministry does not want such a thing as: the people are disadvantaged. But that's what we all think. I find it silly that you are trying to do your job and that this is also done by machinations of the Ministry, hear me say that in such a way. That's just a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u9	Thank you. I think this is a good time to suspend the sitting so that the Secretary of State can prepare himself for the motions that have been tabled. A single question has also been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u10	We will continue the meeting so that the directors can give a response. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u11	The same question as just now: it may be useful if I have copies of the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u12	I can totally imagine that. The messenger's gonna get to work right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u13	Isn't there a set with one of you by any chance? No? Then we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u14	The messenger's on his way. It's an oiled machine, but it can't be faster than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u15	I know you want to keep the pace so high, so I don't want to be a game spoiler.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u16	All right, I like that. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. Weeks ago, months ago, we had this discussion. You asked the two of us to take a closer look at this matter. I think we did, too. We did not make any promises to you at that time. Nor have we said that the problem lies with finance or with justice. In fact, the two of us were very much in agreement that the changes in taxation in relation to this target group have taken place in a good and legitimate way and have been applied in a fair manner. On the basis of the law, therefore, there is no right of correction. Then you can say: even if there is no right to do so, we are making an improper concession, but the question is whether it will be much fairer. That's what we've been looking at. We referred to it in the letter. That is really very complicated, for a number of reasons. 'Cause you've always crossed the line. Whatever you do, even then there will be a new target group where that is complicated. Secondly, if you do, what does that mean for a lot of other people, including other organisations, who are in the same kind of arrangement? That's still a complicated one. Mr. Chairman. I want the motion in part no. Sixty-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u18	The motion in part No. 667 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u19	He actually says you have to compensate for this, and: thank you for your advice, but we don't care about that. If that's what you want as a chamber, I think you should also indicate how that should be translated and from which it should be covered. The motion in part No. 668 asks to see if you can make another ultimate attempt to get out. I have just spoken to Mr Vijlbrief about this. On our side, there is a good willingness to look closely at this dossier one last time, if necessary with outside knowledge, so that we may have a fresh look at this proposal or this issue. Then I am not getting ahead of myself whether this will lead to any solution, in the sense that, of course, those concerned would prefer to see them getting extra money, being compensated extra. But until that last, ultimate attempt, we are certainly prepared. Then I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u20	The motion in part No. 668 gets judgment, Room. That certainly raises a question from Mrs Leijten. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u21	So these people have already been to the Ministry of Justice and Security. They've been to the Treasury Department. They always got zero on the rehearsal. There have been parliamentary questions from the SP and the CDA. Always zero on the reeks. An AO: zero on the reekest. Let's take another look at this: zero on the reekest. You've had a seven-year chance of an ultimate attempt. I think it's really embarrassing if we don't solve it today. It's about such a small group of people. They were 60 then, now 70. They're gonna die. They were in the service of your ministry, I say to the Minister of Justice. Just take care of this!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u22	I find the qualifications which Mrs Leijten attaches to this a little complicated. Yes, it has been discussed for a long time, but we both believe that, looking at the legislation and the application of the legislation by DJI, this has really gone in a proper way, according to the law. If that had not been the case, we would have admitted it more quickly, I think, or perhaps the people concerned would have gone to court. It also happened in an honest way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u23	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u24	Well, proper application of the law? There are people who didn't get him first, then they didn't, then they didn't. So even the Tax Administration had no idea how to apply that law and how it worked for a number of people. So that's not a proper application of the law, I'm just saying. I'm really expecting an ultimate attempt. I have just indicated to you that the only argument contained in it, namely 'no longer than five years ago', has just broken through with the new tax regime. I hope the government takes it very seriously to try here. Both ministries have informed this group that they thought this was actually undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u25	Mr. Chairman. Maybe a short reaction. It is not just about the five-year period. Even if it had been shorter ago, our argument would probably have been exactly the same. So that's not the only thing. Yes, there has been uncertainty in the past about the application of the white or the green wage table. That has already been corrected in favour of those involved. On top of that, agreements were made with the unions on an additional non-compulsory subsidy. The unions have agreed to this. So also as an employer, over what you're required to do, some extras have happened. This would be a compensation for compensation, which we simply have serious doubts about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u26	Excuse me, we're not going to repeat the debate, also looking at time. There's been a response to your motion. I give the floor to Mrs Lodder for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u27	I have heard the Minister correctly, the appreciation of, in particular, the motion in part No. 23 that there is a willingness to look again. I would also like to ask the Chamber to be informed of the precedent, not only from the point of view of Justice and Security, but also from the point of view of the Member of taxation, so that at least one paragraph of the letter can be mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u28	We are certainly prepared to do so. This kind of thing can sometimes also involve tunnel vision, where we really say with our people: this has all gone in a correct and honest way, while if you let someone else take a look at it, you will come to a different understanding. I believe that we both have a full willingness to look at it with an open eye. Hence the positive opinion on Mr Omtzigt's motion. If that leads to anything else, I will also take the point of precedent into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u29	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-8.u30	The vote on the motion will take place today. I thank the Members of Parliament.
