ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	The issue at present is the examination of the legislative proposal 35538 Temporary provisions relating to the use of a notification application in the fight against the epidemic of covid-19 and safeguards to prevent its abuse (Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19). I would once again like to welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to the First Chamber. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I assume you're about to set the agenda. Is that a correct observation of mine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u3	No, Mrs Faber, that happened 24 hours before the start of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u4	Then I'd like to make a point of order. We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u5	You need to hold the microphone down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u6	I pushed him in, but I don't know if I'm allowed to touch it. I want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u7	Let go and then maybe press again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u8	Is that better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u9	No, it needs to be turned up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u10	Now what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u11	Try again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u12	Now what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u13	I think he's doing well. Go ahead. You're gonna have to hold him down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'm gonna hold him down. Mr. Chairman. We have set the agenda and in the College of Seniors certain things were announced...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u15	We're going to suspend for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u16	I give the floor to Mrs Faber. I've been assured that the microphone is working. Maybe it'll take some getting used to the volume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u17	Three times is a charm. He's doing it. Mr. Chairman. At the College of Seniors we set the agenda and it showed that we would start this afternoon because tomorrow afternoon the Minister could not be present. At that time, there was a reason why the Minister could not be present. However, I understand from the press and also from the council report of the municipality of Den Bosch that there was another reason why the minister could not be there tomorrow afternoon than was told in the College of Seniors. I would very much like to know why the Minister could not be here tomorrow afternoon at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u18	What has become us is that tomorrow in Den Bosch there will be a national commemoration of the covids victims and that the minister will be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u19	I'm afraid you may have been misguided. A council report from the municipality of Den Bosch states that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health are talking to six Brabanders, all individuals with their own story, to possibly inspire others to pay more attention to each other. It's about attention to each other, about loneliness. As we know, loneliness is an issue of the CDA. I understand that Minister De Jonge is very happy that he has become a list leader, but it is not possible for him to go on a campaign rather than to speak to the Chamber. I would like a response from the Minister as to why he cannot be here tomorrow afternoon. Is that because of the Corona Memorial or is he going on a campaign?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u20	Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u21	Special, Mr. Chairman, this is a start. Tomorrow at 4 p.m., the memorial day which indeed has the title begins Attention for each other. That is the start of a period in which we want to pay attention to the people who have suffered a lot and have experienced a lot in recent months. We are also considering the fact that this period is not yet over. It's a meeting that starts tomorrow afternoon at 4:00 p.m. That is the notification I made to your President about the request to take it into account in the planning. I am pleased that this has been achieved, so that we can do the first time-limit of the debate and the first time-limit of the cabinet today and possibly start the second time-limit tomorrow morning. That's how it happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Minister. I don't see an order proposal. I do not see Mrs Faber making an order proposal anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u23	I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u24	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. As the first speaker of the afternoon, of course, you always have the opportunity to mow a lot of grass at the feet of the colleagues, although I do not consciously use that possibility. Let's get started. Today, we are questioning the Corona app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u25	I get the remark from the Chamber that it is ill-understandable. I shall suspend the sitting again for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u26	I give the floor again to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, I am better at hearing it now. For us, the approach to the coronavirus is inextricably linked to the corona app. Hence my input will give a broader picture than just the technical aspects of the corona app. As a forum for democracy, and in particular our committee members, we would like to start by thanking the Minister and his staff very much for the speedy and complete response to our questions, not only our questions, but also those of the entire Chamber. I really liked that. That has made it clear that the will is there to move forward. In recent months, we have looked with interest at the development of this app. Fortunately, this development was not specifically a government development, but was also requested from outside, because we know that IT and government are not always a happy marriage. But at least this has been addressed in the broadest possible way. As we speak, another test is underway in five regions. In that context, we are curious about the situation. What are the findings? How's the app? Are they satisfied? Does that make any sense? And above all: does it provide the desired safety and security for the people? On 29 January, Mr Baudet of our party in the House of Representatives called eight months ago, the time is running fast: let's talk about corona. Back then, it wasn't called that, but then it was that crazy virus that led to scary messages, even in our society. That was not necessary, was said then. The following week, Minister Blok was to be spoken to. And in the meantime the RIVM said I didn't think the OMT was already there at the time, that a patient might appear in the Netherlands, but that the risk of spreading was small. Those are the same scientists who helped point the way in the period after that. In fact, it was so unusual that on 11 February a large aircraft was sent to China, a Boeing or whatever kind of cargo aircraft, full of protective equipment, which we were desperately in need of. Then too late, there was an intelligent lockdown. In hindsight, you could say, it wasn't the most intelligent. I always find it exciting if you start mentioning in advance that something you're going to do is very intelligent. This indicates that it may be felt that other steps are not so intelligent. But I thought it was too thin. I think it was important that steps were taken, because that was necessary. It could also be a reaction at some point to a "too late and too little" attitude. Then there was also a search for group immunity. That's very carefully gone off the radar again. And by now, the crisis experts said: this is not the way to deal with this. It was also a tragic story. We have, of course, experienced a deadly denial of the need for protective equipment in health care institutions. That verdict overwhelmed the entire care. It brought fear, which brought uncertainty and unfortunately also brought an excessive number of deceased residents and employees. It wasn't scientifically determined, but from a sort of panic it was decided at that time after all we had already given a lot to China - to do so. But of course the reason wasn't that people thought it wasn't important. The reason was: we don't have it. Then we also had to deal with many enterprising providers who knocked at the door at VWS and at some point found a closed door, a wall and could not move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u28	I have a question of order. We are talking today about the law for the corona app detector, as it is popularly called. I'm hearing a whole review of the corona policy here. I think we agreed we'd do that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u29	I know this finding of yours, and you discussed it in committee. We didn't just take it with each other. You have put it as a point, which is of course your right, but we can only talk about the whole policy and not just about the app. It's about the whole policy. We would like to see this within a framework. You'll find in my input further on why I'm doing it like this. It is not that I am making an introduction to the whole corona policy, but it is about the safety of the inhabitants in the Netherlands. Today we are talking about security and acceptance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u30	I understand from this that you are about to focus on the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u31	Then I will wait and see whether Mr Van Pareren is indeed going to focus on the law we are talking about today, regardless of what I think of it. I think that's also usance in this room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u32	It is even part of the Rules of Procedure. Go ahead, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had stuck to the remark that we saw something in the nursing homes. That was due to a shortage. I will explain that deficit to my fellow Members later, because it is important in the context of the Corona app. We also saw that the health care institutions were at a certain point in time that also a care area was not included in the acute care. This meant, in concrete terms, that they were not sitting at the tables where the need was discussed and where measures were taken. They were out of sight and that is of course very unfortunate. I have already indicated that much is being done by the cabinet; we are absolutely not denying that. The OMT and the RIVM initially said: it is not coming to the Netherlands. But it did come. It wouldn't be contagious, but it was. Only the elderly would be screwed, but that was not the case. We now have the situation that 17 million Dutch people are going to use 50 mouth caps each month on very urgent advice. The only question is whether we have these masks in our house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u34	I would like to repeat what Mrs Prins said before. I thought Mr Van Pareren would now make the bridge to the bill, but he doesn't yet. Are you going to come to a discussion of the bill now? Because this is really an analysis and evaluation of policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u35	I'll go along with that, Mr. Van Pareren. You'll hear from the colleagues. Can you immediately confine yourself to the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr President, I am working on the legislative proposal. I haven't prepared for a general story, but this fits the bill. Mrs Prins's point is the same as that of Mrs Adriaansens. In committee, this has been put forward jointly by both of them. No decision has been taken on this. I believe that this is also right, because we need to see the whole picture of what is happening. In that context, you will soon see, Mr President, I am not infinitely engaged in this area, which I can very well explain why we are talking about it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u37	May I make a suggestion to Mr Van Pareren? He wants to say something about how we handle the corona contamination. Maybe he can take the step to indicate what the app contributes to it and what he thinks about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u38	If you can take that step and limit yourself to the bill, please, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u39	Mr. President, I'm going to continue. Of course, we see many effects of corona on society. In society, we also do everything we can to reduce these effects. One of its components is the corona app. The corona app being discussed today is also needed to bring peace to the population. This means that the corona app must do what one, the people, can expect from it. Of course, that's necessary.I'm really going to make a leap now. You can see me skip a page. This is necessary because we are being attacked as a Chamber, but above all as a society. That society has no reply to that at the moment. It ambushed the fact that the 6,000 coronados, first reported by the RIVM, appear to be almost 40% more. There's 10,000 of them. It is therefore very important to consider at some point that this corona app, if we are to bring it into society at some point, must be absolutely the best in the classroom. That means that Corona app has to help us get out of that top three we're in by now. We have 183 infections per million inhabitants. After Spain and the Czech Republic we are currently working on the corona crown. So there is no question that something needs to be done. I hear comments on the left and right, Mr President. I'd like to discuss it if there's any wish for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u40	I'd like some rest in the room. Please continue your argument, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'd be happy to, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I was talking about the feeling of panic that lives among the people. It is quite something that you are confronted with the reports that there is a second wave going on in the Netherlands. It is important that I give a more detailed explanation of the situation. I can talk about that app alone, but it's the whole environment that's important for everyone to understand what we're doing here today. A second wave can only be determined if you know what the first wave was. That is why I have a question for the Minister: what are these figures equations between the first wave and the second wave? Is this a second wave? We test a lot more, because those tests weren't there the first time. That was, as we have heard, for very separate reasons. Follow the Money indicated that. Do we have any figures we can compare with how bad it was then and what it's like now after a very quiet period? From the outset, the Forum for Democracy has said: testing, testing, testing, that is necessary. "Measuring is knowing" is a general fact. The question has often been asked how Forum gets all this information. We are overwhelmed with questions from healthcare providers who say: how come we do not get through to the Ministry, because we have the things that the Dutch people need so much. It is also confusing for the population that there is a call, for example by the RIVM, that the second wave is there. I'd like to see the figures that compare the infections a day with those at the time. Those figures must of course have been cleaned, because it was not all measured at the time. I can't wait to see what got out of that statistically. It was now hung by the holidaymakers who came back from France and Spain. If we were to use that Corona app with those vacationers, if we were to cover it, we'd have the Netherlands under control. So I'm just curious. I would like to see the figures of that large group of holidaymakers. In our opinion, the majority of the Netherlands have been on holiday in the Netherlands and during the summer we have experienced precisely situations where there was no one-and-a-half-metre society, but a one-and-a-half-centimeter society. How were the rules respected? Of course, it's about the quality of that corona app at this time. There must be confidence in that quality. The Minister has indicated to the many questions that there are, that there is no doubt about privacy, that it is waterproof and that there is nothing wrong with it. Many, but certainly also us, have asked about the dependency of Apple and Google. The Minister said: no problem at all, we have both companies under control, nothing can go wrong. That is, of course, very encouraging. Our main concern remains that the most vulnerable group of our society, the elderly, cannot use that entire app, because they do not have the equipment that that app can work on. You shouldn't think about getting some kind of nursing home analogy, where those who deserve extra protection and also need it are deprived of reports. I'm very curious how the Minister will do that in the end. Now it is also the case that we have just received a piece on the Corona app, I am still working on the app, Mr President. We only received this after repeated questions, which a colleague of another party in this Chamber has been working very effectively on. Then we saw the report of the radically open society collective that also had an opinion on the corona app. My question in this context is whether it is possible for the Minister to go into this further, in particular how he deals with the conclusions of this collective. A very interesting collective if you look at their different activities. I suggest you take a look at that. Now that the schools are again fully manned and populated by students, students and teachers, we are curious what effect will be achieved with the corona app, because that is of course a next risk fire. Is there any experience of this in the test region, and if so, which one? After all, we are bringing our students and their environment to these schools in a situation that is not so protected. Speaking of which, I come to the corona app, which, of course, is needed to minimize. It also requires good ventilation. Maurice de Hond has been calling for seven months that ventilation is important. He says good things about that, but he also ran into that proverbial wall of VWS, because that wouldn't be true. Now suddenly, seven months later, a ventilation manager has been appointed to VWS, who is now working in those schools, populated with our children and teachers, teachers. How's that going? How's that going right now? Can they be safe there? We can have that app, but if this isn't under control, we already know where the next fireplace is. There is already talk of weddings, of students in groups. How is that app gonna help protect this group from good ventilation and all that? The question is, of course, what is the current situation with regard to the insights gained from the cabinet. Mr President, I have a bit of magic to do, because there is so much in my text that does not cover the corona app. So I'm gonna have to do some magic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u42	And besides, you're running out of time, so that's what comes next.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u43	No, that's not true, because you had it at 14 minutes 55, and then I said, "Turn the time back on?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u44	I just gave you three more minutes to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u45	No problem, no problem. I'll do my best. I mentioned the test capacity for a while. Soon we'll have that corona app, if it goes on and is completely safe and everyone can assume that's going well. Then, of course, the question is whether the next step is under control, and the next step is testing, testing, testing. That is what I am and we are very curious about: what is the situation? After all, you can make a great promise, but if at some point it turns out that the sequel is failing, then it is Leiden's burden, to mention your place, and that is not good. So I would like to know: is that happening now or is that not happening now? Because we may soon have 14 million Dutch people who are worried and who want or need to be tested and you should not think that they will all be quarantined for a while. Can the G.D.D. handle it? What are the numbers they can handle? Do they have the staff available? The same question in case the unexpected happens: are we now, after seven months, on an ic capacity of 2,741 beds? That is, of course, very important, because that gives certainty when it comes to this. It certainly doesn't look like that now, because at the moment around the 200 ic-beds are occupied; so now there is no panic. But that's what we're curious about: how's that gonna work out? Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with our final question: do you also consider, in view of the experience so far, to refresh the OMT team with new sounds and to ensure that they include economists, people from outside the care, who can give their input there for things that just play, such as ventilation, vulnerable groups, schools, you name it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u46	That was the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u47	That's right, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u49	But there's one more question for me, I see. So I'm not quite done yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u50	Mrs. De Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr President, and my apologies: next time I will try not to forget my mouth cap. I have a question for Mr Van Pareren. He made an interesting speech about the app and the concerns that exist about it. I am so curious to see what he thinks of the law and what it contains in terms of privacy and anti-abuse clauses. That is what we are talking about today. So please respond: what do you think of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u52	But I'd like a brief answer, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u53	This is an invitation to make a speech about the law, more than I've said so far about that law. But I should like to remind you that I made it clear that in that law an important part is people's privacy. I mentioned the collective Radically that is working on this and that has comments on it. I even asked questions about that. So that's in conjunction with the law. That is at least the most important question for us, can I tell you: is this a law that is tight? Or rather, is the app nailproof? The law can be nailproof, but that's paper. It's not a paper tiger, but eventually we'll talk about the app. Is it safe and reliable? Doesn't it give you any misunderstandings? And most importantly, doesn't that give you any leaks of privacy-sensitive data?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u55	I would like to thank Mr Van Pareren for his moving speech about vulnerable Dutch people. I do have a question. On September 1st I heard an interview at NPO 1 with your party leader. He indicated that he recently did a little grappling at a party meeting. That means he shook hands and hugged people. When I see that, how credible is your speech about caring for vulnerable Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u56	Look, we're a party with almost 50,000 members. That within that group of 50,000 members there are moments that we don't foresee... a grappler's hausje, a panther's bun, just give it names of examples that we have seen very clearly... can also occur with us. We're just people. We're not provoking this place. The good news is, no sick people came out. We've moved on for over a month now, and there are no sick. And we're alert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I note that we are drifting a little away from today's subject. But Mr. Verkerk might also have a question about the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u58	Yes, Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to point out that there are statements by a party leader here. In that same interview, he said he was proud not to follow the instructions of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u59	Thank you. I don't hear a question, so you don't have to answer it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u60	I think it's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u61	I didn't hear a question. You may be able to respond briefly, but I will continue with the next speaker on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u62	The first point is this. You said to this interrupter, as you said to me: it is about the bill. Then I hear some kind of propaganda story, or whatever. I'd like to be able to answer something about the bill. I'd still like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u63	Very briefly. I just didn't hear a question about the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u64	Now I didn't hear it. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u67	I now give the floor to Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst on behalf of the PVV group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr. Chairman. The Minister thinks he has found a solution to the growing number of contaminations and wants this draft law with steam and boiling water through these reflective chamber jackets. He is convinced that with an application on the smartphone, the so-called CoronaMelder, he can save the country. Other European countries have already preceded him and have already rolled out such an app. It is striking that in none of these countries a separate law similar to this bill has been submitted to the national parliaments for approval in order to make this possible. That makes sense, because there's no need. The app can already be installed on the smartphone as soon as the user gives permission. In fact, the consent remains necessary even after the law has been ratified. That is what the data communication law prescribes. That's what Article 11.7a says, I say for the lovers. Mr. Chairman. Is the crux involved in processing the personal data? No, that can also be done on the basis of the user's consent. Nevertheless, the processing of the personal data relating to the CoronaMelder takes place on the basis of the legal tasks of the Minister of VWS and the GGDs. In short, the minister could have rolled out his app a long time ago. But perhaps the Minister wants to use this bill to sell the app as reliable, or he wants to set a precedent. Because there's something wrong with that app after all. The Minister says he wants clarity about how the app works and he wants to prevent abuse. Then you shouldn't surrender to big guys like Google and Apple, because what are agreements worth if they can unilaterally change the terms, if they can change the software on their own or if they don't make their software public? Then these companies are also covered by American legislation, which can sideline Dutch legislation. Mr. Chairman. Google and Apple have developed an API that is the basis for the CoronaMelder app. Without that API, the app won't work. The API is an essential part of the CoronaMelder. There the codes are encrypted, formed, stored and passed on to the CoronaMelder. And how? I don't know! It's a black box. You put something in there and something comes out. It's a big surprise show. While Google and Apple would not have access to the data of the CoronaMelder, they do know exactly which data goes to the CoronaMelder, as they are generated and stored in their API, whose terms and software they can change unilaterally. Written agreements have been made with Google and Apple stating that they are not allowed to process the data from the Corona detector for other purposes. But why make such appointments if they didn't have that data? In short, that's a fake date. Mr. Chairman. The Minister's statement that CoronaMelder's software is being made public is only partly true. The part of the software that concerns the API is closed software, so not publicly. This way you can never check that the installed software on your smartphone meets your appointments. It is striking that these companies did not ask for compensation for the development of the API, which appears to have been specially developed for public authorities. Apparently, they're giving it for free. If you get something for free, you're the product. Perhaps this is a European test case for source and contact research and serves to gain experience for future purposes other than combating the corona crisis. Brussels is also interfering with this and is now rigging up the Federation Gateway Service, to which countries can connect with their national back-end servers. And all for a temporary law. Mr. Chairman. Member States' back-end servers should periodically send the keys of the newly infected to the Federation Gateway Service. What is being done with this data? When will the Dutch server be connected to this system? How is abuse prevented? How does this relate to the statements of the President of the European Commission von der Leyen on more European competences in health care? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The infrastructure of such a federal system and the source and contact research app can be used for more than the corona crisis. You bet your ass they're very interested in tracking and secret services. It is not for nothing that Interpol organised a session on how apps for tracking contacts will change police work in the future. That possibility is available. Google and Apple may simply use the software they develop for other applications. There's nothing the Minister can do about this. He's not authorized to block this. He can't complain either, because he got the software for free. Mr. Chairman. The Minister himself can also take extra advantage of the CoronaMelder. This can be used to check for example a home quarantine. This is easy to do based on the number of contacts on your smartphone. The app would not be used for sanctioning and enforcement and would only be used to combat COOVID-19. But isn't enforcement part of the fight? And does not a breach of a rule result in punishment? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The CoronaMelder serves as support for the legal task of the GGDs: doing source and contact detection. It is important that the instrument is reliable and that it is applied reliably, and that the data entered is correct. A relevant question then is: how reliable is the PCR test? How many people who have tested positive are actually contagious to others? I ask this question because in the graphs of the RIVM the picture of the number of deceased and the number of hospitalisations is not consistent with the picture of the increase in the number of infections, which would block the return to normal. But what about the increase? It is, after all, a question of observed infections. If you test little, as in the beginning of the corona crisis, there is little to observe. If you increase the number of tests, the risk of increasing the number of observed infections increases. Makes sense, doesn't it? Those observed infections were determined on the basis of the PCR test that Jaap van Dissel, Rutte's coronal listener, says: "A positive PCR test means that you show genetic material, but not necessarily that you show live virus and therefore not necessarily live virus that someone is sick of." To what extent are you contagious or ill if you have a positive PCR test? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Research indicates that 30% of people are expected to use the app. Then these users should always have a phone on them, not turn off the app and not let others bang around with their phones. Then there are also contacts recorded in the app that fall outside the circle of the prescribed safe distance of 1.5 meters. This shaky basis of uncertainty can lead to a situation where the citizen is labeled as possible and thus end up in the treatment pathway of the GGD, which can have far-reaching consequences, such as forced isolation and forced research. With a lack of test capacity, you can sit at home for an unnecessary amount of time. And all this is out of the sight of the general practitioner, because it is kept out of the door by the GGD under the guise of "maximum limitation of processing personal data." What kind of weird institution is that? In medical matters, it is the general practitioner who is the support and abandonment of the patient. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. How voluntary does it all stay? The bill states that it is prohibited to require another person to use the notification application or any other similar digital means. But what happens when the Temporary Law measures covid-19 is adopted, which provides for a safety net provision? That's the kind of safety net you want for loose ends. The obligation of the CoronaMelder may be such a loose end. The Minister already states that the government does not intend, at present or in the future, to require the installation and use of the CoronaMelder or any such digital means. But that's a plan and not a guarantee. This obligation is also good to maintain, as it is easy to track who installed, used and shut down the app, whether you are infected or not. Spicy detail: the minister has already tried to impose the CoronaMelder on meal delivery workers, the ANWB and PostNL and who knows which organisations have more. Mr. Chairman. How will it remain voluntary if a moral appeal is made and the social pressure is increased? Opinions are often seen as regulations. Your traitors don't sleep. With this legal corona snitch in their pocket they can feel strengthened. Before you know it, the police will be using a tip to ruin your baby's birthday at home and you'll get the stamp "corona-aso" while you haven't broken any law and while you're talking about your "behind the front door." Mr. Chairman. Okay, let's do one more thing. Currently, in the Lower House, the Temporary Information Act RIVM in connection with COVID-19 is before us. It is a Chamber of Commerce 35479; then you can check it out, ladies and gentlemen. It concerns an amendment to the Telecommunications Act which may require providers of public telecommunications networks and services to provide traffic and location data to the CBS. The CBS processes this data into information and then forwards it to the RIVM. This refers to the total number of mobile devices located per hour per municipality, broken down by origin of the device holder. This is done to keep the crowds and movements of the population in mind. Is my observation correct that this amendment to the Telecommunications Act is or may be related to the CoronaMelder? Is the Telecommunications Act now making something possible that the present bill does not provide for? To what extent will this data also be sent to the European Federation Gateway Service or a comparable European service? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. If this bill wants to provide a legal basis for the voluntary use of the CoronaMelder, then this bill is completely superfluous. The app can already be used. If this bill is intended to prevent abuse, then you should not have the essential basis of the CoronaMelder developed by large commercial companies such as Apple and Google, which determine the terms and the software. If the law serves to clarify the intended course of action, it has only the function of the package leaflet of the medicine. The drug could be worse than the ailment. It would all be on a voluntary basis here, but since when has a law been made on voluntary matters? A law dictates exactly what to abide by. It's not for nothing that we have the saying "prescription someone the law." All right, Mr President, then the question remains: what is the real reason behind this law? And then I'm referring to the real reason. I would like a response from the Minister. Thank you, Mr President, for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u69	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Then I give the floor to Mrs Adriaansens, on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for cleaning this chair every time. First of all, on behalf of my group, I too would like to thank all the officials of the Ministry and the Minister for the prompt response to all the questions we have asked in the past period. And there have been quite a few. Also a thank you to all those who have worked hard to introduce the app nationwide, so the app builders but of course also all employees of the GGD's. A lot is being asked of a lot of people in the country right now. Mr. Chairman. We must do everything in our power to reduce contamination. That is what we have to do in order for people in care to be able to do their job. We have to do that because we have to let regular care continue as much as possible. That's what we have to do to make the economy run. And that's what we have to do most of all to protect our vulnerable people. My group therefore believes that we must take responsibility. That is why we must cooperate with the Minister's request for this law to be dealt with as soon as possible in this Chamber. Meanwhile, we've been working on it as a room for a month, and that doesn't deserve the beauty prize. Speed is important because with the app we can strengthen the source and contact research, but we also should not think that it is a panacea for everything. Let us be clear that the VVD attaches very much to privacy. But when we look at all the other European countries around us and especially Germany, France and Denmark, we see that they have been working on the app for a very long time and that they are already working on it very well. And in the Netherlands we are still discussing. Like I said, the app is not a miracle cure. It's a resource and contact research tool. It is therefore expected that this will help to reduce contamination. The law is also not strictly necessary, as Mrs Faber of the PVV pointed out. The app can also be introduced without this law. It does not require a legal basis and this is also reflected in the various opinions of the Council of State, the national attorney and the European Data Protection Board. But that is all the more pleasing for us to continue and accept this law. The important question is: why is this law important? I come to that answer. This law gives people the confidence that they can voluntarily download the app and that no pressure can be exerted on them. In answering the questions, we have also seen how much emphasis the Minister places on ensuring it. That is a good thing. People should not be forced to download this app. Since that is contained in this bill, my group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u71	I thought I'd wait a minute. Mrs Adriaansens was going to tell us why this law is necessary. But she says herself that the law is superfluous and in fact not necessary, because we can already use the app. Now I know the VVD as a party that is against a lot of regulation and wants to reduce the rules. And yet you seem to agree to a law that is in fact superfluous. And then you say: yes, we need that to give confidence to the citizens. Well, if you say so... You're from a party that's been ruling for ten years. If you have to gain the trust of the citizen in this way, it is a bit of an inability to do so, I think. So you haven't been able to convince them of that trust for 10 years. So I will come to the next question. As a VVD member, you are in favour of less regulation, but you agree to an unnecessary law. That's not gonna happen to me. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u72	Mrs Faber knows how to use the words very nicely. What's important is that we don't have any unnecessary rules. We do not believe that this law is superfluous. At this time, it is very important that we give people peace and that they have the confidence that we are doing the right thing. This law offers protection: you cannot be forced. Because that pressure can be high in some situations. You can't be forced to download such an app and get those contact messages. It's very important that you choose it yourself. Taking responsibility is very important for our party. That's supported by this law, so that's why we're positive about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u73	It is said that taking responsibility is an important point. But then you can start downloading the case on a voluntary basis, without a law underneath? It's completely unnecessary, isn't it? In the nine years I've been here, I've never seen us pass a law on a voluntary basis. A law just prescribes the law for you. So that's a very crooked reasoning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u74	The crux of this law is mainly the protection against the pressure that can be given to download the app. That is why this law is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u75	I would like to ask Mrs Adriaansen how her party stands that vulnerable groups in our society are not helped by this app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u76	I think we have seen in the comprehensive written explanation how wide the range could be and how many people use the smartphone. I think we're failing a lot of older people. I think a lot of people already work with a smartphone, but that aside. I think the Minister's gonna give some answers to that. It's a support for what we're all doing. An app alone can never be the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u77	I'm not exactly hearing about the vulnerable groups. You say it's just a very small group that doesn't have an app. How do you look at the fact that all those groups that can work with that app can't be tested or can hardly be tested? It's the whole circuit that has to run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u78	It's not like we can fight Corona with this app alone. A lot of measures are needed to do that with each other. The app is a way to reach a certain group of people and make them cautious, but also to report: you've been in contact with someone, so keep certain caution in mind and stay at home. Let's not make it bigger than it is, but everything helps, so this app also helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u79	Mr. Van Pareren, a third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u80	I hope I am not twisting your words, but I keep hearing that you are not directly convinced that it is necessary and that it is really helping society. You've already indicated that there's contact and source research. That is still there, and it will continue to be so. Of course, there must be sufficient capacity for this. But we don't have the situation right now that we can help the vulnerable group in society with that app. That's not so bad, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u81	I would like to answer Mr Van Pareren that we are indeed helping the vulnerable people in our society when we are all careful when we know that we have been in contact with someone who is infected. So I don't really understand your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u82	Then I'll go to Mr. Otten, with your permission, because these were your three questions. Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u83	I was just very impressed by Mrs Faber's speech, which gave a very good summary of why this law is not really necessary. I do not hear you giving a good answer as to why you think this law is necessary. There are a lot of apps. Anyone can indeed download any app they want and choose for themselves in terms of privacy. Whole tribes sit on Tinder all day swiping back and forth. There's no law for that either, so what exactly is that law for? I don't understand. Can you explain that to me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u84	Mr. Otten may also put this question to the Minister shortly. Our interpretation is that that law is very good to have, because we protect the voluntary choice of people to download that app. Strictly speaking, the approval is not necessary. The legal basis is not necessary for the approval, but for the protection of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u85	Mr. Otten, a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u86	Yeah, but I don't hear an answer. I know the VVD as a party that used to be for deregulation and not for unnecessary legislation. The only reason I can come up with this law is to create a slippery plane at which the law is changed at some point and other obligations are applied, for example. Then why are we getting started on this, I'm asking the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u87	I think it's the other way around. It is very good that we are paying so much attention to something new that we are doing in this society, namely that we are using such a modern tool to combat a virus. It is very good that we in both Chambers have a good discussion about how we deal with the privacy and protection of people, and where the borders are. That is why we embrace this law, with the whole process that we are going through here. So we do that carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u88	Please continue your speech, Mrs Adriaansens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u89	I believe that I have sufficiently demonstrated that we, and why we, are in favour of this bill. We still have a few questions for the Minister. I would like to comment on the additional functionality that Apple and Google have developed with which they can map contacts. The Minister indicated that this separate functionality, which is thus separate from the CoronaMelder app, does not work in the Netherlands. We wonder what guarantee the Minister has that this will not happen. If that were to be the case, what risk would we be taking? Is this indeed about a possible violation of people's privacy? What can the Minister do if that could be the case? I would like to put a second question to the Minister. He indicates that as soon as the test capacity is in order, he will ask the OMT to extend the test policy to tests without any complaints. We encourage this, because it appears that many infections occur without all the complaints being visible. Moreover, it motivates people to download the app and observe quarantine advice, and that is very important. When does the Minister think that the test capacity is in order so that we can extend the test policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u90	You say you encourage testing without any complaints. But in tests without complaints, there is a good chance that there will be a negative result and people will get the suggestion that they don't have corona. What do you expect from the behavioural effect of testing without complaints?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u91	In the extensive documentation that has been sent to us, we have seen that the risk of this is very small and that it is not at issue as Mrs Nooren describes it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u92	What's the risk of being very small? I don't understand the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u93	I think you're suggesting that the wrong results of tests... Or do I misunderstand your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u94	The general policy of testing is that the test is more reliable when you have complaints. It's called sensitivity. If you test at the time that there is not much coronavirus yet, the chances of a false result is................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ My group is afraid that people will think: I don't have a corona, so I'm going out again. So I don't really understand why the VVD is for testing without complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u95	Now I understand Mrs Nooren's question better; I apologize for that. Our group expects us to develop policies for this too. As you say, when it is clear that these complaints are only visible after one, two or three days, you will have to test them, and of course not on day one. But I'm sure the Minister's gonna agree to that. You will have to introduce it carefully, just as is now the case with testing with complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr President, because this is a kind of reserve option to ask another question. How does the VVD see that if it is at the expense of other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u97	If it's at the expense of which groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u98	There's a shortage of test capacity. You argue that people should have an app tested while there is a lack of testing capacity. And then you're gonna have people tested without any complaints. Then I think, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u99	I understand you're saying that, but I didn't say it that way. I said as soon as the test policy is in order. The Minister also indicated this in his written reply. The aim is now to put the current testing policy in full order, as the OMT has now prescribed. That's testing with complaints. We're in that regime now. But the Minister has given us a look. If that is in order, he is prepared to see if the test policy can be extended. But of course, that can only be done at the moment when we can make it happen. I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u100	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u101	I'd like to put a final question to the Minister. It is important that the person who receives a notification that he has been in contact with someone who has been infected should follow the advice, for example to go into quarantine. We read in various media that this is not always followed carefully. What else can the Minister do to make that happen? Those were the questions, Mr. Chairman. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u102	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the Temporary Law Notification Application Covid-19. Unfortunately, infections are also rising rapidly in the Netherlands, and the members of the D66 group are looking with open eyes for opportunities that we can use to keep the SARS-CoV-2 virus pandemic manageable. My group considers the use of digital technology such as a CoronaMelder app to be a legitimate objective in principle, namely to combat COOVID-19, and does not see an alternative method that could currently support source and contact research. That is the principle of subsidiarity. The legal guarantee that, of course, immediately stands out is privacy. After an initial hasty process with an appathon in which none of the developed apps could meet the conditions, the Minister initiated a new, transparent method in which the principles of privacy by design were followed. The members of the D66 Group note that much has been done to ensure the privacy of users. Maximum data minimising has been sought and the other principles of data protection, as laid down in Article 5 GDPR, are sufficiently respected. Technically, therefore, a solid app has been developed in a short time. Good use of technology goes beyond a reliable open source code and tracking GDPR. In order to speak not only about privacy by design but also about ethics by design, the design, introduction, use and evaluation of this app should be done carefully. In this sense, this law exposes a difficult dilemma. On the one hand, we think the profit of the app is mainly in the fact that it is a way to relieve the burden of the GGDs and to reduce tracing delay, as has been modeled in various scientific studies. After all, the app can give a notification exactly when you may be infected but have no complaints yet. It's only then that you can infect other people. In that sense, you not only install the app for yourself, but it is the form of digital solidarity to protect others, who may be more vulnerable than you, such as the elderly, lung patients, and other chronically ill. Moreover, research convincingly shows that the app can actually add something even with a relatively low user number. Also, by exchanging the codes, the app will have a better image of who you've been in contact with over the past two weeks than human memory. On the other hand, only a minority of people believe that the information contained in the app remains strictly confidential, according to a NOS message. Also, such an app can promote chilling effects: make sure we get more and more used to the idea that something or someone is constantly watching everything we do. It makes the idea of surveillance normal, when it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mrs. Bredenoord is talking about how it can relieve the G.D.D.'s. But it seems right to me that it is going to burden the GDPs more, because it invites more contact and source investigations. Then it is also true that a false positive test can regularly roll out. So you're just gonna get a bigger load on the G.D.D.'s, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u105	Falsely positive and falsely negative I come to speak further in my speech. I myself have questions about this to the Minister. When many people start installing and using the app, you expect there to be more notifications. So that's right. Then it would indeed be possible for the GDPDs to do more work. But in the end, that's what you want. In the end, you want people who can infect others to be tracked down and stayed home as soon as possible. So you don't want more or less work, you want it to happen as effectively as possible. And in that we see an added value of the app. We believe that it can indeed be more effective. After all, I don't know exactly who was in the restaurant where I was last week. And I may not remember exactly how long I've been out there. So that's where the app can work effectively. I do think it can help the G.D.D.'s in that sense, with certain things figured out completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u106	I understand that Mrs Bredenoord would like to identify whether there are any infections. I'll understand that. But I don't think the argument that it relieves the GDPDs is going to work anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u107	We don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u108	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u109	Technology, such as this app, must therefore meet the highest requirements and be truly necessary. It is precisely the effectiveness and the impact of this technology on society that is very important to my group. In our view, this is where the bottlenecks lie, especially in terms of voluntaryity, high margins of error and testing policy. Much has already been exchanged in the written questions and answers, but on these three points my group still has questions for the Minister. First of all, volunteering. The members of the D66 Group consider volunteering of the app to be one of the most important safeguards. The law includes an anti-abuse clause to ensure that no one can be forced to download the app. This is an important provision for us. This will formally guarantee the voluntary nature of the app, but in practice, it may be difficult, for example, for the government's own communication policy. Of course it can be announced that the app is there, and perhaps it can be said that this can be an additional measure to reduce the virus, but communication should not be perceived as coercion or pressure. That's a tricky field of tension. We have heard from the Minister that the principle of voluntary service is important to him, but can he give a concrete indication of the limits of voluntary service? For example, can the government recommend employers to have their employees download the app? What specific message is communicated in communication policy and what is not? We would like to hear from the Minister how he is going to implement this communication strategy and how people will be specifically alerted on the app. In an analysis of the app, an external ethical panel has indicated that a moral appeal from the government should be possible on citizens. How does the Minister see this? Does such a moral appeal fit within this communication strategy? For example, can I make a moral appeal on my team at work or on my medical students, and recommend that they download the app? How does the Minister see that? I'd like to hear his advice. The ethical panel also states that the app should be communicated as an exceptional public tool to prevent a culture change in which people are slowly getting used to surveillance. Does the Minister intend to include this opinion in the communication policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u110	I'm very curious about D66's vision of the moral apple. You emphasize the voluntary nature and talk about "ethic by design." One of the very important trends in ethics is the ethics of consequences: what are the consequences? You outline that the effects of that app are actually positive, so I would expect you to call on the Minister to work on that moral appeal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you to Mr Verkerk for having the opportunity to discuss ethical theories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u112	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u113	It's true. Consistentism is one of the most important ethical theories, of which I am certainly charmed, but actually there are few ethicists, with the exception of some philosophy faculties, who are entirely based on one theory. Usually it's more eclectic and you'll also have to reason deontologically. Not every end justifies the means. Apart from the consequences, certain groups may, for example, suffer. There are also some mistakes and disadvantages to the app and to this technology. So if you were to argue completely from the point of view of consistency, you'd always get inhuman side effects. So I would also like to throw in a piece of deontology, for example always protecting privacy and volunteering. A piece of virtue ethics as well, where people have to think about the question: do I want to do this and would I like to download the app? From a Christian-ethical or very liberal-ethical point of view, there may also be considerations to be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u114	Ethics very briefly is actually impossible. I agree with you that the impact ethics are insufficient. If I add care ethics to that, you will agree with me that the Minister can really make a moral appeal to the people to use this app, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u115	The core of care ethics is actually that we reflect on our responsibilities for each other. So perhaps it is not so much the minister who should do that appeal, but people who talk to each other about what they are obliged to each other in terms of care relationships and responsibilities. So maybe we should talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u116	An extremely interesting subject is on your mind. "Moreel apple" I hear you say. We are curious about your party's position on the appeal to employers to let employees use the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u117	Mr. Van Pareren, that's actually the question I just asked the Minister. Just a very specific question: how can I ask my team members a question as a colleague? I'm a supervisor, too. Does it matter, the relationship of authority? I'd say yes, it matters. We were just talking about care ethics and virtue ethics. D66 is a social liberal party. This means that we are not libertarians who think that we should never talk about moral responsibilities for each other. So I think you should have a conversation about that. But when is that an open and free conversation? That is also my question to the Minister. You need a certain inclusive culture for that. We do not have them in all areas of activity in the Netherlands. Only in that culture can you have that conversation. Otherwise it will be coercion and we will be very negative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u118	I am glad to hear you say 'no compulsion'. You can imagine that I was allowed to praise the Minister that, in the mistake he made to the employers of, among other things, meal delivery workers, he immediately replied: that did not go well. That's very encouraging. It is true that the word "force" may be in it. You always have that unequal employer/employee relationship. That is what you say: coercion must never be allowed, and we must do everything we can to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u119	I am not so worried about coercion, because that is what this anti-abuse clause is about. I'm more concerned about urges. That's not an enforceable thing, but it's subtle, something you don't see very well, for example, where there's a relationship of authority. That is the question I asked the Minister: where is the fine line between those two?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u120	You will continue your speech, Mrs Bredenoord. Oh, Mrs Faber has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u121	Mrs Bredenoord points out that it is very important for D66 to go on a voluntary basis. We can also underline this. But she is talking about digital solidarity. How am I supposed to see that in the light of volunteering? Solidarity puts some pressure on people. And then it goes digital, so it's an impersonal pressure that's being put. How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u122	I don't see solidarity as something that's being enforced. Then I find it forced solidarity and then suddenly it's something completely different. For example, whether or not I decide to transfer money to charity is a form of solidarity. There's no one telling me to do that. If a friend or friend would say to me "I have trouble with the situation on, say, a Greek island or in a country in the world where there is a flood" and I would like to make a financial contribution to that, you're kind of making an appeal on each other. I think that's some kind of interhuman conversation about values, about what you owe each other. That's solidarity. Apart from the possible forms of health insurance, the forms of solidarity that are forced by the government, most forms of solidarity come from people themselves. That's perfectly compatible with volunteering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u123	I get a very comprehensive answer, but I was specifically talking about digital solidarity. How am I supposed to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u124	"Digital" means that it goes into a computer or smartphone, so it's with a digital device, no more and no less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u125	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u126	Mr. Chairman. What I said before the interruptions also means that the corona detector will be terminated if it does not appear to be sufficiently effective. Both in the explanatory statement and in the further report, the Minister remains abstract about this. For my group, it is important to hear really concretely on the basis of which criteria the app is deactivated. I'd like a response from the Minister. Secondly, the high number of error-positive and error-negative cases. In his reply to our written questions, the Minister stated that according to the app field test, an error-negative report is issued in about a quarter of the cases. People get an error-positive report just as often. In 1968 Wilson and Jungner formulated the criteria for responsible screening for the World Health Organisation. These criteria have also been incorporated into the Dutch healthcare policy. With an error margin of 25% error positive and 25% error negative, the app would not pass these criteria. Then why do we accept it for this app? But at the same time it is known that a 25% error margin is not bad for an app at all. If Wilson and Jungner's criteria are apparently not suitable for such apps, does the Minister have any idea of a more appropriate framework? Does he want to take the initiative? These high error margins can have a negative impact on the effectiveness and acceptance of the app. For example, the Minister trusts that people will voluntarily go into quarantine upon a report. This is an extra big sacrifice if you know that the app is wrong in a quarter of the cases and especially if you are self-employed or really cannot work from home. The members of the D66 Group would like to see an overview of how the app works. Can the high number of error positive and error negative notifications still be reduced due to technical adjustments? Our suggestion is that this assignment is set out under the universities or at TNO. I'd like a response. Can people actually derive rights from a negative or positive notification, for example when canceling a holiday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u127	I understand there's a quote from the field test results. Indeed, it states that the reliability of the app is around 70% to 75%. That's that quarter you were talking about. But it also says that in 59 cases the notification was unjustified. It says: the person had the notification, but was not in practice close enough, i.e. less than 1.5 meters, to have run the risk of infection in accordance with the RIVM guidelines. In six out of ten cases you get a notification, while it may be that you haven't been within that 1.5 meter at all. I didn't hear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u128	I think I have mentioned both the false positives and the false negatives. It meant getting a message that you were near someone with corona, when you weren't, or that you weren't getting a message when you should have a message. I think I mentioned them both.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u129	You mentioned them, but you did not mention the percentages. Those percentages are frightening, aren't they? In six out of ten cases, that app goes off unjustly. So I keep getting scared that I might be sick. However, the field test shows that in six out of ten cases you have not been within 1.5 meters of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u130	I read that 75% myself. I do not remember whether that was in the reply or in the note following the report. But let us ask the Minister this question, because we have received so many pieces. After the field test, the app was further developed, as it was part of the development of the app. Of course, it may be that the latest data is 75%. I'm just not sure, so I think it's a good question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u131	Mr. Nicolaï, third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u132	It is a good question to the Minister, but at least these are the data used in the legislative process. That's what I'm basing myself on right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u133	Please continue your speech, Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u134	Thirdly, testing policy is a bottleneck. Due to the limited test capacity, the current policy that testing is allowed is only allowed if one has complaints. However, about half of the infections occur without that or before any complaints arise. It is precisely in this that the app could have great added value. Then you should be able to get tested after a positive notification, or a few days after that notification. Does the Minister think people will be quarantined if they can't get tested? If so, what does he base that on? If not, what will the Minister do about it? The committee that advises VWS on technology states in the NRC that it is desirable that people can also be tested without complaints after a report. This increases both the effectiveness and the support of the app. The members of the D66 Group fully agree with this. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister has repeatedly indicated that there is simply no room for testing without complaints. But do we ultimately work towards a policy that can be tested by people with a report but without complaints? At what time can the Minister guarantee this? We would like to hear a concrete timetable. We would also like to hear from the Minister what the final objective is for him and how he is doing everything he can to increase the test capacity at a rapid pace. We also call for a reflection from the Minister. Has he ever considered or is still considering any other accents in the test policy, for example always testing after an app notification or source and contact research and perhaps more reluctant with a runny nose? The number of positive tests after a runny nose is extremely low. With that we also consume a lot of scarce tests. From the philosophy of technology we know that technique is never neutral and always involves a script, as Bruno Latour has described nicely. The context of technology matters and there are still questions about that context. My group looks forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I call Mrs Nooren on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to the formal policy, we still have to prepare bowls to put the masks on. We are talking today about the bill that provides the legal basis for the CoronaMelder's deployment in the fight against the COVID-19 virus. For convenience, like many others here, I speak of the coronavirus. The app is intended to complement regular source and contact research and can contribute to slowing down the spread through the rapid detection of people who have been in the vicinity of someone who has tested positive for the coronavirus. This is what we are doing at a time when the number of infections is increasing. Others have already talked about the acceptance of preventive measures in certain groups in society and the capacity for testing, source and contact research as well as care for people who may be infected is under pressure. We are aware that during this coronapandemic a great deal is required of the Minister and his officials. That is why the PvdA Group appreciates this commitment and commitment. We thank the Minister, and through him his officials, for the enlightening technical briefing on the bill and the functioning of the CoronaMelder, the comprehensive background information and the speed of events, others also mentioned the question of how to respond to the questions raised by this Chamber. Unfortunately, these answers have not removed all the concerns and questions of the PvdA Group. We really hope that this debate will provide convincing answers. The PvdA Group chooses not to address the overall approach of the coronapandemic in this debate. That debate is held weekly by the House of Representatives. With regard to the division of roles and the democratic legitimacy of the measures taken to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, this subject is undoubtedly addressed in the plenary session of the Temporary Law COVID-19. This means that this plenary debate will focus mainly on the feasibility of the law as far as the PvdA Group is concerned. We hope to get convincing answers to the question of whether the app can be used effectively and whether all the conditions are met to successfully contribute to preventing the spread of the coronavirus. In other words, does it benefit, and does it not harm? Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a compliment to the Minister for the bill that is now before us. The PvdA Group very much appreciates that the government has chosen a legal basis for the use of the CoronaMelder. We think it is good that we have succeeded in developing an app that is user-friendly and accessible in a relatively short time. Until last week, we were convinced that safety was also well secured. This is what we have been questioning in connection with the aforementioned report of Radically Open Security. ROS considered that the source code of the server systems was not safe. All the more remarkable, because we received no signal from the Minister last month that privacy issues were on the agenda. This surprises the PvdA Group and also raises questions. I am also asking these questions on behalf of the 50PLUS Group. First, a few questions about the trial. Can the Minister explain why it took so long for this information to come out? Why did the Minister himself not mention to the Chamber earlier that problems had emerged in the investigation? Who checks that the existing problems have been adequately solved by Google and Apple? How has it been checked that GD employees are no longer able to see the source code of someone infected? And why isn't the Personal Data Authority involved in this? Then there's a question about the sequel. The government indicates that there is ongoing and frequent investigation into the security of the CoronaMelder. That seems to us to be an excellent thing. The Group of the Party of European Socialists asks the Minister to tell us that he will inform us in good time about the results of these investigations, especially if security risks arise. The security of the app is essential for us in the assessment of the bill. Then use the app. We find it disappointing and worrying that at least 10% of people with mobile devices cannot use the app on their phones. Can the Minister briefly explain why it was not possible to develop an app that anyone using a mobile phone can use? With regard to the use of the app, the PvdA Group strongly supports its voluntary nature. With the Heink c.s. amendment and the Middendorp/Van den Berg motion, this voluntary nature is better secured and the risk of abuse reduced. A number of colleagues mentioned this earlier. We are pleased that the Minister has decided not to treat people who are tracked down through the CoronaMelder differently from those who are approached on the basis of source and contact research. In the legal treatment so far, the lack of test capacity seemed to be more at the root of this. The PvdA Group wants to know whether people using the CoronaMelder can be advanced by the GGD in relation to other groups, as some colleagues here suggest. If that is the case, how can the voluntary nature of the app be prevented from being put under pressure? On this point, can the Minister promise us that, regardless of the test capacity, people without app who, for example, are tracked down through regular source and contact research will be treated the same as people using the CoronaMelder? Mr. Chairman. If we look at whether the app benefits, the information provided and the government's answers have convinced us that using the CoronaMelder can lead to more early detection of people who have been near someone who has tested positive for the coronavirus. The calculations of the potential numbers we received were mainly based on simulations. It's just been about that for a while. That information raises questions. For example, the study of 8 June, which was just mentioned by the Animal Party, states that in almost 60 cases there is a false positive result. Is that really true? Doesn't that mean people have to stay home for ten days? We also wonder what the image is based on the information from the regions that already work with the CoronaMelder. In summary, what is the real picture of the added value of this app compared to the other interventions that are being used? This question is all the more urgent for us because the written answers in the final report state that the government expects that the use of the app will not lead to additional tests. What's the explanation for this? The effectiveness of the CoronaMelder increases when there are no obstacles between people or between people. the phone isn't in a pocket or bag. The Minister makes this point easy by reporting that only 75% of contacts are detected in the regular source and contact research. It remains unclear what the government is going to do to ensure that the app can send out optimal signals. I'd like some clarity on this point. Mr. Chairman. The use of the CoronaMelder is only effective if people stay at home if they are notified that they have been near someone who has been tested positive and have been tested if they have any complaints. Even now, a significant part of the population does not abide by this. This concerns the PvdA Group. In the written answers, the government indicates that it is still looking for ways to ensure that people follow the advice. That sounds very open and non-committal. We are curious whether the Minister has already found these ways. And if that is not the case, what does that mean for the added value of the app? In our opinion, the effectiveness of the CoronaMelder will be under pressure if people are not adequately assisted if they are informed that they have been in contact with someone who has been tested positively for the coronavirus. Even though the GGD is sometimes not accessible, people may have to wait several days to be tested, it sometimes takes several days for them to get the test results and the GGD does not have sufficient capacity for the source and contact research. I notice that every day. Don't these problems take place after the national introduction of the CoronaMelder? How does the Minister see this? The PvdA Group fears that the support for the Corona approach and the use of the CoronaMelder will decrease if people cannot get on the phone and have to wait a long time for the test and the test results. Then the introduction of the CoronaMelder will harm the government's approach. Does the Minister recognise this and, if so, what will he do about it? And, if not, why does the Minister think everything's gonna be okay? Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the ever-relenting point of communication, information and the creation of support. Mrs Bredenoord has already spoken about this. It is repulsive because we know that with a national campaign you do not reach a part of the inhabitants of our country, the risk of pushing lies with a slightly too fanatical approach, we have seen by now at a number of infection sites that there are groups that are not or are not well achieved with the current campaign, the site to request a digital corona test is not accessible to everyone, and because we are in this coronapandemic phase in which the feeling of an acute crisis is going down, and not everyone is willing to adapt their behavior for the health of others. What is the Minister going to do on these points? As far as communication is concerned, everything seems to be about a national campaign with a partner strategy. Organisations such as employers, healthcare organisations, libraries and municipalities are mentioned, but without any concrete impact. I am sorry, but this is too weak an answer for our group. Surely it is clear that you are not there with a campaign and that each group deserves its own approach? What does the Minister do with the lessons learned in the introduction of active donor registration and the advice from the WRR report Knowing is not yet done? In short, what concrete steps will the Minister take to encourage as many people as possible and enable them to use the CoronaMelder and ensure that they follow the advice? How does he make them understand how the app works? My final question is: if organisations such as libraries and health and welfare organisations are to play a role in this, will they be able to do so at the moment and will they receive additional funding for it? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. We can benefit from the CoronaReporter if it is adequately used and if adequate action is taken if someone has been near a positive tested person by the person who receives the notification and by the GGD if there is a need for advice, a test and a positive test result in source and contact research due to corona-related complaints. The PvdA Group hopes that the Minister will be able to convince us in this debate on the issues of security, voluntaryness, effectiveness and careful communication and implementation. These are essential points for us to come to the conclusion that the app benefits more than harms and they are important to the PvdA group to determine our position on the law. We look forward to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u137	Thank you, Mrs Noord. I would like to give the floor to Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u138	Thank you, Mr President. In my maiden speech, I talked about a ghost law. That was a different law. I would almost think that today we are talking about a ghost law when I listen to Mr Otten and Mrs Faber. Some people say that that law isn't necessary at all, because that app is already there. Yeah, that app might be there already, but we're obviously talking about an app that's not just there, but that the government is going to use as part of a campaign in this case. That makes it special, because that means that we are looking at the question of what that app will do to our society. The government's gonna do something with that law. We're responsible for that. That brings me to a critical point for our group. We are very critical of the law. We do not want to cooperate in a society in which we constantly monitor how far a person is from us, and certainly not if the need for the entry of the CoronaMelder............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We do not want citizens to be tempted to participate in a surveillance society by the government with promises that are not true and with incomplete information. We see the Minister opting for an approach that is going to force people morally to join, because if you don't join, you're not showing solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u139	I love how Mr Nicolaï describes the ideal society in which we do not control it from each other, but I do not know if he has ever seen what Google can see of you. That can tell exactly where you got gas, what purchases you made, where you've been, so I think we're past that. This law will at least provide some safeguards against abuse to exert the pressure to download.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u140	Maybe it's as they say, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't criticize it. Mrs Faber and others have rightly said: is it not very dangerous for Google and Apple, these big boys, to interfere with this law? This already raises the question of whether the government should interfere with this app and be part of a campaign. That's the question before you, isn't it? If it were up to you, the law wasn't necessary, I understand. But the law has come and according to the story of that law, a campaign will be launched soon. I'll get right back to that. That is a situation that we do not say is the case. No, something's about to happen in our society now. That law is being used for something. I'd like to dwell on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u141	Mrs. Adriaansens. Mr Nicolaï will come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u142	Mr. Nicolaï, I was just trying to strengthen your plea. I think you're arguing that we have more protection for this kind of thing. That's what the law does, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u143	Mr. Nicolaï. Then continue your speech after Mrs Bredenoord has asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u144	I'm glad I'm against the law. At least we'll have a little discussion. I see everyone getting up by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u145	Mr Nicolaï talks about moral coercion on the part of the government. I was wondering what he meant by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u146	If you'll allow me, I'll come up with that, because that's what two pages of my story are about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u147	Perhaps we should give Mr Nicolaï a chance to continue his speech. But I shall first give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u148	Mr Nicolaï used the term "surveillance company." I think that's special, because the app doesn't know who you are, where you are or who you meet. Can you explain to me why you use the term "surveillance society"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u149	I'm not using that term because I'm afraid Mr. De Jonge can track exactly where I am, but I'm expressing that "surveillance society" in my eyes means you can't walk anywhere undisturbed. Undisturbed in the sense that you have the idea that in no way is perceived by others, other than those who walk around there and look with their eyes, that you walk there. That's a surveillance company.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u150	Then I can imagine you asking the Minister if he can emphasise in his campaign that the app is very stupid and doesn't know who you are, where you are and who you meet, and that we are not going towards surveillance with this app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u151	I would say that you can ask the Minister yourself, because I assume you would prefer not to have a surveillance company either, so thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u152	Finally, Mr Verkerk, you will have the floor later. Mr. Nicolaï, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u153	Mr. Chairman. We see the Minister opting for an approach that is going to force morale on people, and I come to that in a moment, Mrs Bredenoord, to join, because if you do not join, you will not stand by. Well, that's the essence of it, isn't it? We fear that the advice to the app user will have a huge social and psychological impact and will lead to emotional removal between people. I was also concerned about this in Mrs Noord's questions. Finally, we see a minister hiding away from difficult questions, but that is a bit of the Minister's profession, I understand. Not you as minister, but the minister. My colleagues from the VVD, D66 and the SP even threw me at the feet of forgetting that the use is "fully voluntary." "Then you won't download it?" Now let's take a look at that volunteer. How real is it? In fact, we will come to a discussion that Mrs Bredenoord and Mr Verkerk have already been engaged in. On my question of how the government intends to avoid moral pressure, the Minister's answer is that the downloading and use of the app is voluntary at all times. But the Minister also says 'I quote 'the campaign informs and makes a positive appeal to people'. In short, the campaign aims to persuade people to use the app. All kinds of parties are involved who are going to contribute to making such a positive appeal to the people. Workers, civil servants, road users: they will all be bombed with that positive profession. In fact, and interesting: once you download the app, you will also be encouraged to persuade as many others as possible to download the app. I quote the screen of the app, see for yourself. "Let others know that you are helping to stop the virus. So share the app with as many others as possible." And underneath it is a button that you can use to convince all your boyfriends. All those who invite you will receive the message "I help to control corona, with the CoronaMelder. Do you?" Pretty much translated: I do, don't you? Here's the message: if you don't participate, you choose not to help control corona. What freedom does anyone who wants to do everything in their power to control Corona still have to say no? What should the person in question say to the person who sent the urgent call to him with that button, a friend, family member, colleague, who would like to know if he has downloaded the app by now? How much do you like to be known as someone who doesn't participate in what all the others did to help properly fight the corona virus? In such a case, I would like to say to all my fellow senators that the use is "totally voluntary', calls for a formal voluntary nature, which, however, does not work that way in society at all. It is as absurd as claiming that there is no inequality in the Netherlands, because according to the Constitution everyone has equal rights. The campaign envisaged by the government is socially focused on getting as many people as possible to use the app. Rejectors are put in the goddamn corner, and put on display as irresponsible citizens who do not choose solidarity. Members of this house who call out that the app is completely voluntary, participate in such a digital scandal. Mr President, I would like to say straight away that if the government and the parties that support the use of the app so wish, I respect it, even if it is not the choice of our group. However, I would also ask the supporters of this app to recognise that they are fully aware of the ethical and emotional dilemmas that are being put on the shoulders of those who choose to remain separate from what the masses are doing, a mass that, although not forced by North Korea-like legislation, is being put under pressure by campaigns that respond to conscience and that use the social pressure that family members, friends and colleagues are going to exert. Do we want to take responsibility for this? I am not only looking in the direction of VVD, D66 and SP, but also at the Labour Party and the Christian Union, who are throwing away the criticism with the argument: helping all little bits. That's right. That's right. But what price does society have to pay for that? Do those little bits justify a solidarity offensive that will put doubters socially in the fucking corner? That must be a question of which members of the Christian Union and the Labour Party should be awake. The same goes for the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u154	Mr Gerbrandy, on behalf of the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u155	I have some problems with the remark 'North Korean situation here in the Netherlands'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u156	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u157	Well, you made that comparison, and I object.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u158	No, I didn't make that comparison. I didn't make that comparison. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u159	Well, that's how I took it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u160	Well, that's too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u161	You're welcome to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u162	Fortunately, this is a democratic rule of law. That makes quite a difference, as you know. Why are we three hours in the Senate on this subject today? That's because there's a problem, Mr. Nicolaï, and we're trying to tackle that problem with all our power. You may have moral or ethical objections or any objections I do not want to trivialize, but there is a reason to be here, to find a solution and to approach that positively. In doing so, perhaps we can ask the Minister and the Government: can you improve that or do you want to do so in a different way? Or you say: that's all bullshit; don't start.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u163	I'm happy with the intervention, because that's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna ask the Minister a lot of questions. I also have two motions in preparation, which you will be able to co-sign later. We will ask for everything to make it as it should have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u164	I think that's a whole different attitude. Then it's about making it the way it should be, instead of comparing it with dictators or talking about pushing things up. That's not meant to be according to the spirit of the law. You know that, Mr. Nicolaï, the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u165	Mr. Nicolaï. Then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u166	I'm gonna object, because I didn't talk about that. I have just said: thank goodness we have no North Korean situation here and are not being imposed by the law. But there's going to be a campaign that puts people who say they don't really want to be part of it in the goddamn corner in the sense of "you don't want to help fight corona." I talked about that, and I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u167	I would like to hear from Mr Nicolaï: are you only talking about the government campaign, or are you also referring to the situation that other initiatives from social situations would come to participate in that app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u168	I asked the Minister about this. It is said, I said, that no pressure must be exerted and that voluntary action must be paramount. My question was: does this also apply to other campaigns? The answer to that question was yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u169	I am curious to see how Mr Nicolaï will indeed see the limits... I have asked questions about this too, so I am also curious about that. I can't wait to see how you see it. In principle, you do use harsh terms such as'shampaal', but as Mr Gerbrandy has just said, there is a problem. I think everyone sees that problem. We are thinking today, among other things, about how we can solve that problem. But that's what campaigns are about. You do know the campaign not to eat meat for a week, or the campaign of Wake Animal. In my street it is now full of signs: eat another piece of schnitzel. That's about a vegetarian schnitzel. That is also a campaign, and we do not call it a scandal. I wonder how you see such campaigns with a moral message.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u170	We can go through all the campaigns that are going on...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u171	Let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u172	... but we're talking about something else now. In this sense, Mr Gerbrandy's question was justified, because we are talking about a very serious problem. Our party, too, is very serious about this problem. So that's what we're gonna start with, just because it's a problem that's going on with everyone. Not everyone thinks about meat, fish and vegetables and the kind of things you brought forward. But everyone's in a horrible situation right now because of that corona. So everyone's thinking about this. That means the danger is that if you're not willing to cooperate in downloading that app, you're actually being spit out by society. This is because the problem has spread throughout society and across all sections of the population.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u173	Mrs. Bredenoord, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u174	In fact, you say: "The problem of corona is actually much bigger than the problem of eating too much meat. That is why this is more problematic at the moment. Among other things, the pressure can be more problematic in this way." Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u175	I think my answer might not have been clear enough. I would like to say that we are in a war situation here. This has been used many times, including by ministers. And in a war, you're either wrong or right. In this war situation, launching this app with the story that you're supposed to be part of, means that if you don't participate in it, you're gonna get thrown out of society very quickly if you're the one who's wrong. We all have to keep a close eye on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u176	Mrs. Bredenoord, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u177	That's a hell of a metaphor, isn't it? I think all the assessments of wars are about grey pasts and not about black or white, so I really think that's a simplification of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u178	Then I'm going to see Mrs. Prince-Modern on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u179	I also had a question. Nobody knows if you downloaded that app or not. If no one knows if you downloaded that app because you decide it yourself, why do you come up with a digital scandal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u180	That's why I liked having that app in my hand. Then I could see that it said, "Go talk others into it." That's what I've been quoting. You can send a message in the app, just like in other apps. You can put on a whole list of all your boyfriends or all your colleagues. Then that app goes to all those people in one go. That's right here. So that means that people get a message that says: you also have to download the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u181	I downloaded that app, too, and I saw what it says. But that still doesn't mean that, if you don't, you'll be visibly nailed to a digital scandal. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u182	An example. I'll send it to you. We run into each other. I know I sent it to you. Then I'll ask you if you've downloaded it. If you have a lot of people to pass it on to, and if you have a lot of colleagues, you can ask anyone. That's the pressure I mean to indicate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u183	I do not share that, because each has its own responsibility. But it's also up to you what you want or don't want to share with information. I think that space and responsibility are fortunately available to every human being in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u184	That was your third. Mrs De Boer, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u185	I would like to refer to Mr Nicolaï's language of war. He says: in a war you are right or wrong, and that's why you are assigned to those camps, and there's really nothing you can do about it. To be honest, that scared the hell out of me. Is he implying that you're actually in a situation like that we're in right now? I just read that there's 4,500 more infections coming in today. And what's the big deal? I'm not from the war language. I'm not from the war language. Because if you think about it in consequence, that's what it comes down to. Because you're going to divide people into right or wrong, you can't do anything anymore. Or did I get it all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u186	That's based on the premise that the cure is good. In my speech, if I can finish that, I would like to ask whether the remedy is good. What would be a very good tool, and several parties have already talked about it, is that this test capacity is in order. But that is a question, I understand from Mr Van Pareren, which we should leave out of this, because it is not about the app. But it's connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u187	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come to the question that follows Mrs De Boer's question: what is it worth to us to introduce the app? What's the price on it? The answer to that question, of course, depends heavily on the effectiveness of the app. This is where the twisting starts and maybe it's just messing around. What's for sure? I quote the conclusions of the field test commissioned by the Minister: the reliability of the app is around 70%.75%. Only 73% of the situations in which a notification was expected were reported. Mrs Bredenoord has already mentioned this. That's just a fact. One in four is completely wrong. More than a quarter of the contacts with an infected person were missed. That's just a fact from the field investigation. A second quote: 59% of all notifications issued are unjustified. The person had a notification, but was not in practice close enough, within that 1.5 metres, to have run a risk of infection in accordance with the RIVM Directive. In short, in six out of ten cases someone gets a notification with the advice to go in home quarantine, while he has not been within 1.5 meters of the infected person at all. Actual data. Mr. Chairman. The second point is that the Minister acknowledges that the current adoption rate is too low. But he whips that away with the argument that all the little bits help. The latter is, of course, true, but in order to consider whether that small result justifies a first step towards surveillance society and that doubters are being maneuvered in a fucking corner, my conviction is that we need to know at what degree of adoption there is sufficient ground for that. I specifically asked for it. The Minister knows that, but he refuses to answer me. Then there is the third point. All groups are amazed at the lack of test capacity. Surely it is obvious that the effectiveness of the app as an actor against the spread of the coronavirus falls or stands with the ability to have you tested directly, even if you have no symptoms yet? That's what the app was supposed to be like. Look at that little screen again. The first window of the CoronaMelder does not say for nothing: "Ask for a Coronatest? Find out if you are infected as soon as possible." You can read that now. And that's what it's meant to be, of course. As long as insufficient testing capacity is available, the app only makes more latent living concerns towards public policy manifest without making a useful contribution to the fight against corona. Can the Minister promise that the entry into force of the law will be postponed as long as due to insufficient test capacity it cannot be advised to have a test carried out as soon as possible when obtaining notifications? That's the essential point, isn't it? I'm considering a motion on that point. Mr. Chairman. Is it a sign of corona madness that a government wants to introduce the app that according to its own investigations is unreliable? A brand of condoms that are found to be six out of ten leaks is banned by the government, isn't it? Should we give the green light to a government that has the false sense of security and uncertainty in people who thought they were protected by continuing to call for the use of an unreliable app while also lacking test capacity to launch a campaign that will put moral and emotional pressure on citizens who have legitimate doubts about the utility of the app and who experience this law as a first step towards an unwanted surveillance society? Mr. Chairman. After the scandal with diesel cars, the concept of "scam software" has become commonplace. Isn't the information given in the CoronaMelder so flawed and careless that the CoronaMelder will soon be listed as a cheater app? The ethical analysis adopted by the government states the first point: "The technology used to combat the corona crisis must enable individuals to take responsibility." The first core value is called voluntaryity. Many have already talked about this. There are two aspects to volunteering. Sorry to drag us back into philosophy, but Aristotle was already digging into that. In his Ethica, this philosopher points out that volunteering is not only about making your own choice, but also that you have sufficient knowledge, so consciously knows what you are doing. In short, is the essential question today of all the Members here who want to volunteer not really the following: is the person who, in total voluntaryity, is going to assume his own responsibility as the ethics committee puts it, the right information and all the information he needs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u189	Mr Nicolaï uses the word "scam software." We know a lot about that from the diesel scandal. In doing so, it was essential that parties, test parties, were deliberately deceived. That was very deliberate in order to gain financial advantage. Are you suggesting that the Minister or the Ministry deliberately deceives you, our Chamber, the House of Representatives and the people to achieve his own goals, which deal outside public health?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u190	I can reply very briefly: that would be the case if the Minister is not prepared, as I am going to ask him so directly and I will also put in a motion, to mention in that Corona Melder all the essential knowledge and factual circumstances that you need to be able to make your informed conscious choice. If that is not the case, if he refuses to do so, he will knowingly be left out essential information about the unreliability of this app and about other things, which I will talk about in such a way. And, yeah, I'll find that app crooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u191	If this is the answer, my suggestion would be that you ask the question in the first round and do not use the word "scam software." And that if you have any real hard evidence that you're being misled by the minister, in the second round, you'll introduce that word.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u192	That applies to Mr Verkerk and to me and also to Mr Gerbrandy. I like it when people listen carefully to what I say. And I said: isn't the information given in the CoronaMelder so flawed and careless that the CoronaMelder will soon be listed as a cheater app? I didn't say it was a shuffle app. I'm just saying, if you don't make sure that that information is accurate and complete, there's a chance that people will say later, "Look, that's a shuffle app." That's what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u193	In the corona approach, we do a lot of things that we don't know exactly if they work, but that might contribute, like wearing a non-medical mouth mask. You say everyone must have all the information. If you have read the report "Knowing is Not Doing" of the WRR, you know that you need to look at which information is appropriate for each target group. So you can fill up the entire CoronaMelder app, or you can make a reference to a place where people can find the information. I think you have some sort of rational idea that everyone makes a better decision when they can read everything and know everything. How do you do that in an accessible way for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u194	May I continue with my next page? Because then we get that information and perhaps I can take Mrs Nooren as a signatory to my motion, unless the Minister is kind enough to agree with me that it is essential information. It's just a couple of points. Now when you look at the CoronaMelder, you just see that on a page things are told about the operation and the utility and so on. The things I'm about to present to you can be very well mentioned and then we have an honest app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u195	I'm gonna listen to you first; I think that's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u196	Mr. Nicolaï, you continue your speech. And the request is not to touch the microphones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u197	Yes. If you want to inform a possible user fairly and transparently and provide you with information about the usefulness and functioning of the CoronaMelder, the following facts, Mrs Nooren, are essential. I will mention six points. All six points relate to information that is factually correct. I'm looking at the minister. Does the Minister recognize that? 'Cause I could be wrong, too. I'd like a response. What's in it? One. The reliability of the CoronaMelder is only 73%. Two. In six out of ten cases, the CoronaMelder gives an unjustified report of contact with an infected person. Three. The CoronaMelder doesn't say if you've been around an infected person as a person, but whether your phone, which was in your pocket or elsewhere, was within 1.5 meters of someone infected's phone. Four. The person concerned is completely free to refrain from downloading and use, and should not be put under pressure by anyone. Five. The notification leads to an opinion. It is up to the person concerned to follow that advice. In the event of non-compliance, no action shall be taken. And then the final point. There is currently insufficient test capacity to honour a test request from those who do not yet have symptoms. These facts should be available to those who are going to consider installing that app. That is our position. And those who do not have the knowledge mentioned in those six points will, according to Aristotle and other philosophers who have volunteered, not be able to choose freely and not take their own responsibility. I am very curious whether the Minister agrees with me and I would like to hear the Minister's response. By the way, what's in the Corona Melder? Just open it, and I quote: "The app will send a message if you've been close to someone who turns out to have corona for at least fifteen minutes." So that's just not right. Moreover, all the relative information I have just mentioned in my six points is missing. I asked the Minister whether he agrees with our group that it is necessary, from the point of view of transparency and fair information, to include in the Corona Melder the factual knowledge I mentioned in my six points mentioned. He refuses. According to him, the six points I mentioned are found in www.coronamelder.nl, and I'm sorry to say that I'm so full of shit. The fact that, according to the Minister, the six points I have mentioned are already sufficiently well-known is, I am sorry to say, such nonsense. If the Minister prefers not to include this information in the notification process, because then the positive call that the campaign is going to bring will be at risk, that is understandable. But that does not take away the duty to provide that information when we take into account the requirement that people should choose in total voluntaryity. And then I'm looking at the VVD, and I'm looking at D66, because that should appeal to you. A minister who, on the one hand, says he agrees with this demand but, on the other hand, does not inform the public transparently and fully, who is cheating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u198	Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to join Mrs Nooren in saying that communication is a profession, and I believe that she said that, and I think that you should look closely at the target group you are looking for. It goes a little too far for us to have all this wisdom in store. And that's your list of six: a general rule that goes on. So I think it is very important that you say that people are allowed to make a choice voluntarily, but my group is going a little too far to think about how best to do it for each target group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u199	I don't understand the reference to a target group. All the Dutch who buy a bike or a car, they look at reviews, and they just look at what is said about that car or about that bike, or about a washing machine or do I know what? Now it's about getting the review before I install that app, so I know: 45% is already completely wrong, and in six out of ten cases I get a wrong notification. I'd like to know before I install that thing, because I'd rather not install it. Because when I get that report, it makes me nervous; and then I want to be tested, and I can't. What do you say to that, I'd say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u200	You gave the example of a bike, but I still have kids who really aren't going to look at the reviews before they buy a bike. And I choose on other grounds, too. So you are now filling in a number of things that are not on the agenda for a large part of the people. That's actually the only point I want to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u201	Mr Nicolaï again, and then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u202	Yeah. I have the idea that this CoronaMelder is not meant for people with the age of your children, but for adults. Mr. Chairman. In order to prevent him from being blamed, the Minister would like to state that he is prepared to include the information contained in the six points I mentioned in the information on the use and operation of the CoronaMelder that comes into view when installing the app. I am considering a motion on that point, and I have already said that. If we assume that those who have been prompted to do so by that positive appeal from the government, but apparently also from the Upper Chamber and from everyone else who thinks that we should show solidarity, will start using the app, then the impact will be enormous. It is clear that, according to the government, those who receive the notification but have no symptoms themselves should go into home quarantine for ten days, because testing is not possible. On the other hand, it is of course important to assess whether it is realistic to expect that the advice to enter home quarantine will be followed in situations where the person concerned is trapped. Mrs Nooren also asked a question about this. If it is not realistic to expect this, there is a risk that the support of the entire RIVM and government advisory policy will crumble, and that the effectiveness of the CoronaMelder and the rest of the corona policy will disappear completely. And that could prove to be a deadly mistake. In this context, our group gave a number of examples of situations and asked what behaviour was required by the Minister, and how realistic is the expectation that the desired behaviour will take place. I'm gonna ask you again here. For example, we mentioned the case that an employer would require his employee to simply come to work as long as he had no symptoms of illness, even if he had received a notification. We also presented the case of a student or student who risks missing an important test or an important exam at homequarantine. Finally, we pointed to the situation of single people, including single parents with children who still have to be taken to school and who do not have the opportunity to spend ten days in home quarantine because they have to do groceries, and because children have to be taken to school and taken from school. The Minister did not answer the question of what behaviour he requires from the employee, student, student and single parent if they receive a notification, a notification which, according to the field study, in six out of ten cases is not based on a contact that has actually taken place and which is only 73% reliable in the four contact situations that have taken place. He also did not answer the question of how realistic it is to expect that behavior, and on which he bases his expectation. Our group is still keen to hear the answers, please, before we vote on this law. The Minister walks away from questions, but at the same time he speaks tough language about the need and roll-out of an app that will be at risk of going into history as a shuffle app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u203	Mr Nicolaï, you are approaching the end of your speaking time. I'm gonna hold you tight because we're walking out. You've got 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u204	I'm almost done, but I'm so interrupted that if I put it in a row... I get that you're saying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u205	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, All your break time has not been added to your speaking time, so we are not going that way. We do the same to everyone. I have measured your speaking time and you are almost over it now. So go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u206	Thank you. I would have liked to say something nice about the Christian Union, but unfortunately that is no longer possible. What is left of volunteering if a broad commitment is made to a positive call that will put doubters on hold? And how is it possible that such an important step towards a surveillance society is taken without a proper consideration of the effectiveness and adoption rate of the CoronaMelder, with the slim motto that helps all little bits? That's not a fair and responsible trade-off, and it smells like bullshit. And it is out of the question as far as our group is concerned. Let us not forget that the mess with animals and the emergence of zoonoses has put us in the situation that we are facing today's challenge to combat the spread of COOVID-19. In the meantime, messing with animals has brought my last sentence, President................................................................................................................................................................................................ We're done with all this bullshit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u207	Thank you, Mr. Nicolaï. I haven't heard you accuse the Minister of deception and deliberate deception. Otherwise, I would have intervened. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u208	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of the SGP no language of war. I want to start with Johan Cruijff. He is renowned for his football talent, but no less because of his cute and sometimes inimitable one-liners. One of his statements could just get you involved on the corona app. I quote Cruijff: "To walk free, you need technique." That's quite an appropriate verdict. Indeed: technology, if used responsibly, can help us to detect and contain the coronavirus, so that we can regain our freedom of movement. It is good to look carefully at this and also to be very alert to the risks, for example to a possible violation of our freedoms precisely as a result of this technique. After all, the boundary between regulating and manipulating is only thin. Mr. Chairman. How do we best protect our citizens from abuse and the possible adverse consequences of a corona app, for example in the field of privacy? That is why the cabinet has tabled this bill. A bill aimed at care, voluntaryity and as much protection as possible for citizens, including an anti-abuse clause and a hotline. Thus, the cabinet does not choose the fastest and lightest route to land a corona app, but opts for a solid and royal route, through the tough road of legislation. That's wise. Anyone who wants to build confidence in a possible Corona app should not resort to "hurry" apps. So this is also the way the SGP looks at this bill. The first question is whether and to what extent a corona app is an effective tool to combat corona. Given the studies that have appeared, I get the impression that this app can be a useful tool. I mention the study of Oxford University, but also studies of Utrecht University. It's not a miracle cure, it's a tool. We are no longer talking about a legislative proposal that wants guarantees to be included in the law to prevent abuse of a notification application to be used or of another similar means. Mr. Chairman. One of these legal safeguards is voluntary. That is what this bill is radically clear about. Any form of coercion, directly or indirectly, shall be rejected. I would almost say: if only the new donor law had paid just as much attention to volunteering! We'd have a different donor law by now. The SGP is counting on the exclusion of any form of coercion or obligation when it comes to possible vaccination against corona. I believe that the Prime Minister has already said something about this in the General Reviews, but perhaps the Minister would like to repeat this here. Is any form of coercion or obligation excluded in case of vaccination against corona? Mr. Chairman. During the written round, the SGP explicitly drew attention to the wider social impact that the CoronaMelder may have. The Minister has gone into this in detail, for which I am grateful. Voluntaryity, the prevention of stigmatisation, solidarity, accessibility for as many people as possible and privacy are important keywords. In addition, the broader social impact has been addressed in the so-called ethical test with both experts and citizens. I am pleased that the Minister is taking this seriously and would like to call on him to make the social impact a very strong part of the ongoing evaluation. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The pressure on the responsible minister, Minister Hugo de Jonge, as a result of corona, and the knowledge that 17 million experts are critically thinking along to use a euphemism will not leave him untouched.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u209	You're almost at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u210	I'm almost at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u211	Are you gonna finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u212	I'll finish it. It won't leave him untouched. That is why I wish him well, even from this place, strength, health and wisdom from above. Also in Staphorst is prayers for this. In conclusion with the British apologist Langmead Casserley: "In the world it is said that the matter is serious, but not hopeless." The Christian faith says, on the other hand, that the matter is hopeless, but not serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u213	I hear Mr Van Dijk on Cruijff. I think he also had the saying: often something has to be done before something happens. That's what I have to think about right now. You're talking about Staphorst yourself. We do everything about it, we walk here with mouth caps, we take all possible measures, we talk about an app, and in Staphorst, where you have a big supporter, you refer to it yourself. What the ultimate dispersal mechanism is for the coronavirus! That's just retarded, isn't it? Don't you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u214	At retarded I think of quite different parties and organizations. But to respond to your question, I note that the church of Staphorst has operated within all conceivable rules. I think that's one of the reasons why churches are so low in the list of fireplaces. That goes for a lot of churches. They are usually disciplined people who fully comply with all the rules, who listen well. If we turn things around for a moment, you know as well as I do that there are all kinds of cultural institutions, such as theatres and concert halls, where there are hundreds of people today. Should a church in Staphorst, which is a thousand times bigger and has a thousand times as many seats, return to 30? To be honest, that's bullshit. Where's the customization here? Now let's not let the rhetoric of De Telegraaf or anything like that drive us crazy. I really hope that we are wiser here in the First Chamber, but also Minister Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u215	I'm not gonna let De Telegraaf get the hell out of my head. What we saw last week in Leiden was a choir that practiced with due regard for all measures. Thirteen of the twenty choir members are now sick. I know people from Amsterdam from a mixed choir, four of whom died. 80 people have become ill. Singing is just awfully bad for the spread. Do you apply to your followers other than the rest of the Netherlands? For the catering industry that can't have more than 20 or 30 people in the store? I don't understand. You measure in two sizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u216	I'd like a brief answer, Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u217	That's not double standards. Indeed, you can't just compare every organization to the church. It is not for nothing that we have Article 6 of our Constitution on freedom of religion. So we shouldn't align a restaurant with a church. Nor would that be consistent with our rule of law. For the situation in Staphorst, it is significant that they have been coming together in this way and in this size for months in a very responsible way and that this has in no way led to contamination. Once again, I do not think it is right to focus the arrows on Staphorst, where they have really followed every rule. Then we must criticize the rules, so to speak, but not one church, which adheres to the rules and then is blacked out or thrown away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u218	Finally, Mr Otten and then we return to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u219	Finally. To close with Cruijff: if you wanted me to understand, I would have explained it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u220	Clear. I think it is a typical example of a minimum level of knowledge combined with maximum judgment. Thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u221	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mrs Baay-Timmerman has the floor on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the Temporary law notification application covid-19, popularly called law corona app. It is a temporary law, which allows the notification application to be used as a possible tool in the fight against the epidemic of COOVID-19. The law only regulates the possibility to download an app on a voluntary basis and also includes a ban on urge or coercion, so that no one can be forced to download the app. The legal text is very limited, covers barely four pages and aims to combat the recent, significant increase in the number of corona infections and the spread of the virus. How remarkable is it, then, to note that this brief, limited legislative proposal raises questions and concerns among many citizens in society? We, too, as senators, have questions. The joint groups submitted no less than 267 questions during the written preparation. The answer given in the reply gave rise to further questions. Then why so many questions about this CoronaMelder? Is it the fear of the unknown, of a government that for the first time in history calls on citizens to install an app on their private smartphones, even if it is for a good cause? Is it the fear that the government will take a first step towards total control of the population by collecting all kinds of data? Is it the fear of how the voluntary nature of the citizen is interpreted? Is it the fear that error messages will create a false safety? Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is a party that stands up for the elderly, including a group of vulnerable elderly people for whom the risk of infection with the coronavirus may be fatal. My party, after all, should embrace any tool that can help to reduce this risk. However, my group still has many questions. For some of them, we agree with Mr Nooren of the PvdA on the ROS report. For 50PLUS, its response and how the effectiveness of this notification application will work in practice will be decisive to vote in favour or not of this legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS asked Mr Roozendaal during the technical briefing on 8 September to estimate the percentage of app users in relation to the population needed to make the notification effective. After all, the Minister states that the CoronaMelder's deployment will be terminated if the deployment proves to be insufficiently effective. The indicators for this are adoption, use, directly targeted effects, indirectly targeted effects and unintended effects. I would remind you once again of the research already mentioned by 50PLUS from Germany which shows that 20.3% of the population are using the app from June 2020, but also that infections continue to increase significantly to the present day. The note following the report of 2 October this year states that, in the case of 20% coverage, research carried out by the University of Utrecht shows that digital contact detection is already more effective than analogue methods of source and contact research. Does this mean for the Minister that he considers a 20% percentage of app users to be sufficiently effective for the deployment of the CoronaMelder? Or is he aiming for a higher number? I would like to hear a response from the Minister, who will also indicate what he is going to do to achieve the desired percentage. How is he going to increase popular support to use the app? Mr. Chairman. Both in the reply and in the report of 1 October, my group raised questions on the period of advice for quarantine and home isolation. The Minister stresses that both are now subject to a ten-day deadline. Contacts should then be alert to complaints appropriate to COVID-19 for 14 days after the last time in contact with the patient. The period of fourteen days also applies to people who are informed by the CoronaMelder of a possible contact. So, despite ten days of isolation, complaints can occur four days later. My group still does not understand why alertness is still required after those ten days. Is there still a chance you're infected or contagious for others? Please provide a clear explanation for these additional four days. The highest rate of contagion with COVID-19 is currently found among the young. Pending test results and especially in the absence of complaints, they usually do not go into voluntary home isolation for ten days. That is the reality. Why does the Minister think that young people will follow the action recommendations through an app? After all, they are already in force. Mr. Chairman. This bill has a clear purpose, namely to prevent the spread of the virus through warnings, the so-called notifications, via an app on your phone. For every well-thinking person, the moment you receive a message that you may have been in contact with an infected person, you only want one thing: to test whether you are actually infected. For this, sufficient test capacity and test material is required. And a clear guideline for you not to have any complaints tested, so that someone can obtain certainty about his health situation as soon as possible. In the reply, the Minister confirms that the government is responsible for regulating sufficient testing capacity for COVID-19, even when there is scarcity. Media reports show that the scarcity, the current scarcity, was much earlier foreseeable and could have been prevented by timely intervention. The Minister's reply that he will soon enter into contracts with pooling laboratories and involve foreign laboratories comes as mustard after the meal. This should have happened a long time ago. My group wants the Minister's undertaking that, because of the lack of testing capacity, there is no breach of the General Data Protection Regulation, the GDPR, because of the necessity to move abroad. The tests shall be carried out using swabs containing the DNA material of the persons tested. The EU Directive, the General Data Protection Regulation, applies only within the Member States of the European Union and not beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u223	You indicated that there is sufficient and insufficient capacity, sufficient abroad, in the Netherlands, in the whole process of testing. What do you base on that there is insufficient capacity in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u224	That is what I get from the answer in the reply and in the further note, in which the Minister repeatedly stresses that there is not enough testing capacity at the moment, which even makes the directive: if no complaints are made, you will not be tested. If there were sufficient test capacity, the logical conclusion would be that anyone who may have received a notification or in other ways has reason to believe that he may have been in contact with an infected person will be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u225	Can I ask you, Mrs Baay, to include in your question the question of whether there is sufficient capacity in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u226	I'd be happy to take the question to the Minister. In this respect: Minister, is there also sufficient test capacity in the Netherlands? I am very interested in my colleague. If so, I'd like to hear why no complaints are being tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u227	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I referred to the EU directive, which therefore does not apply outside Europe. This is due to the fact that the Minister would examine the possibility of testing outside Europe, for example in Abu Dhabi. The Minister says on this point, and I quote: 'I do not make concessions in terms of quality, privacy and reliability. These guarantees will therefore be taken into account in the decision whether or not to use these laboratories. Whether these guarantees can be properly filled in is currently being examined." My group would like to hear from the Minister whether this investigation has already been completed and how he is going to enforce these safeguards without any legal basis. 'Cause a cat in a tight spot makes weird jumps. Due to increasing pressure to increase testing capacity, especially after the introduction of this bill, the Minister will be inclined to do everything in his power to comply with it. In this context, my group would like to hear the state of play on the rapid tests already available, the results of which will be available within 30 to 45 minutes. Are the results sufficiently reliable? Can these rapid tests be used everywhere, for example in nursing homes, schools and business? And is such a quick test also offered by the GGDs after a notification? I'd like an answer. Finally, Mr President. As a Member of the First Chamber, I am required to check legislation on legality, enforceability and feasibility. Rules arising from legislation must also be possible to be implemented. If this is not possible or not entirely possible, for whatever reason, my group will draw conclusions from it. I look forward with interest to the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u229	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Prins-Moderaar, on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u230	Mr. Chairman. Over the last few months, we have been dominated here in the Netherlands, but in fact throughout the world, by one word: Corona................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The impact of corona is immense, on the physical and mental health of the citizen, on the economy and social well-being, but also on every citizen individually. In many cases, fear and uncertainty are increasing by the day, while a final date, a positive perspective, is unfortunately not yet in sight. However, we do know that we can do a lot with each other to control the virus, to prevent infections. This means that we have to adapt our behaviour. I call the one and a half meter rule, homework where it can be done, not part of large densely open or sitting masses of people etc. We see that this desired behavior is often possible, but not always. Think of public transport and people who work close to other people in the care, in kitchens or anywhere else. The CDA Group is therefore positive that the Cabinet has also examined the possibilities of today's digital technology. In a world where the iPhone has become an indispensable tool for many people, with Facebook, Google Maps, Twitter, step counters and Flitsmeister, it would be almost culpable if the cabinet had not explored those possibilities. The cabinet has developed an app called the stupidest app of all apps. Because this app knows if you've been in contact with a person infected with corona, but that's all. No personal and/or location data is stored, as is the case with Facebook, Google Maps, Instagram and many other apps. It is an app that has been developed taking into account privacy by design and an open source approach. In fact, an example for the government. Can the Minister also indicate whether this approach will in future become the standard for the government? The CDA Group understands that the CoronaMelder app is designed according to the RIVM guidelines. This means that if a person has been within a distance of less than 1.5 metres for more than 15 minutes in the presence of a person infected with corona, a signal is stored. In the meantime, the advice of Verenso, the association of specialists in elder medicine, and the OMT is now to proceed to preventive use of the mouth and nose masks in care in nursing homes, regardless of the time period and distance. In other words, the risk of infection also applies in a shorter period of presence in each other's circle of 1.5 meters. We would like to hear from the Minister whether the CoronaMelder app is being adapted to these new guidelines. With regard to the functioning of the CoronaMelder app, we have further understood that if you get a signal that you have been in contact with a corona infected person, you have actually been within a radius of 1.5 meters in 75% of the cases and 90% certainly within a radius of 3 meters. At the same time, the CoronaMelder app does not guarantee that you have not been in the vicinity of an infected person. This does not apply automatically: no message is good message. We believe that it is a good thing that users are aware of this. Can the Minister also indicate whether the final Corona app mentions this? The CDA Group understands that the user of the corona app will only receive a notification if he has been in contact with a corona-infected person. In the context of increasing awareness that everyone should be aware of as safe a behavior as possible, a weekly notification with a positive or negative message would be a good option. It is not for nothing that people say: repetition is the power of the message. Has the Minister considered this option? Mr. Chairman. The more citizens download this app, the better this app can have its impact on controlling the infections. Right now, about 1.2 million people downloaded the app. Given the simulation study by Oxford University, which shows that at least 10% use is needed to achieve added value, this calls for a strong and stimulating communication approach. This is how the advisory committee advises. On the other hand, the Law notification application covid-19 indicates that any form of coercion and incentive should be avoided. Of course, we embrace the principle of voluntaryity, but we also think a great use of the app is desirable. The Minister has indicated that a campaign is being developed within these frameworks. Can the Minister confirm that the communication approach will have sufficient visibility in the multitude of communication target groups, particularly among young people who are difficult to reach? By the way, what can we learn from the countries around us, such as Germany and Belgium, where the corona app has long been implemented? We agree with the Minister that the Corona app will be used a lot and will therefore make a substantial contribution to combating the infections. However, not only the degree of adoption of the app is important, but more so the extent to which people who have received a notification that they have been in contact with a corona-infected person will follow the action advice to go into quarantine for some time. From RIVM's behavioral studies we learn that 90% of people with complaints are still shopping, 43% are going to work and 64% to family and friends. And that goes for people with complaints. Research also shows that 50% of those interviewed who, in the context of source and contact research, have received a personal advice from the GGD to enter quarantine leave the house. What plans does the Minister have to encourage more people to actually follow the advice of the GGD and via the notification detector to go into quarantine? After all, we will actually break the contamination chain. In case of a notification that one has been close to persons infected with corona, the advice is to go into quarantine and be tested only in case of complaints. Unfortunately, we have to note that the GD's are unable to cope with the high demand for tests. Source and contact research is also limited in many regions. The guidance committee set up by your ministry has given a clear advice to always have positive notifications tested, because about 40% to 50% of the infections, according to the calculation models, take place before symptoms occur. About three to four days after infection, the virus is already measurable. The CDA fraction is concerned that the lack of testing capabilities and late testing have a negative impact on the rating and thus on the use of the app. Does the Minister share this concern? Does the Minister intend, as soon as the rapid tests can be safely used, to change the notification and to change the policy in line with the advice of the guidance committee, which is always testing at a positive signal? Mr. Chairman. Thanks to this law, the legitimacy of the app, the guarantee of volunteering and privacy are confirmed and we act with respect for the European Convention on Human Rights. Regular evaluations shall ensure that impact and effectiveness are monitored. Especially in view of the rapid increase in infections, the CDA Group is in favour of implementing this app as soon as possible. After all, it's all hands on deck, and then it's all hands on deck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Please stand still. There is an interruption by Mr Van Pareren on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u232	I would like to ask Mrs Prins-Modderman a question. Aside from the app, you also talked about the tests. You are rightly concerned about the availability of the tests. Is it also a reason for your party not to be able to make a choice today whether you are going to vote against the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u233	Mrs. Prince-Modern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That is indeed the correct statement. That is no reason for us not to vote on it. As we pointed out at the end of the speech, helping every bit. That's what it takes. From that perspective, we will be happy to support the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u235	I apologize for the wrong name. I'll leave it with "Miss Prince," if you don't mind. So you take the risk that the law will pass, that there will be great unrest, concern and possible panic among the population, if the follow-up is not in order. You're taking that risk for granted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u236	I estimate the risk many times less. On the contrary, I think that this app will help to make people even more aware that they need to be alert to their behaviour. In the end, that's the only thing that can help right now: adjusting your behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u237	Finally, Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u238	We just got that ROS report from that collective. Doesn't that make you hesitate whether the app is ready or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u239	No, on the contrary, because the research revealed the following. A GGD employee asked someone infected with corona if he would signal his contacts. Someone would say yes, but then the next question is whether he would actually do it. If the GGD employee actually pressed the button, just to explain it simply, the GGD employee could see it during the test phase. When I compare that to what a GGD employee knows as much as he actually does personal contact and source research, that's many times more. On the one hand, I find it the least horrible in comparison when it comes to privacy. Secondly, we have also understood from the answers to the questions that this has been corrected in the final version.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Prince. Then Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u241	I heard you say the most important thing is that you get more alert using that app. But the use of that app also means that you get an advice with that notification and the advice is that you should go into home quarantine. Then I'm so curious how the CDA looks at it. You're a single mom with two young kids to take to school and you get that notification at night. Then the CDA says, "Those kids don't go to school, the mother doesn't go to work." Is that what you're saying? Do you expect it to happen? That's actually my most important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u242	What I'm suggesting is that the advice is to actually go into quarantine at that time. The same question also applies when you are called by the GGD in the context of source and contact research. So your question is: to what extent will people follow the advice of either the GD or the notification detector? Even with a signal of source and contact research, it is not certain whether you are actually infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u243	I understand that, but Mr Van Pareren said... If the app is rolled out, then your party's intention is that many people will use that app as well. So the intention is that a lot more people who get reports than they do now are reached through the GGD. So that's what happens to a lot of people in tight situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u244	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u245	Then my question is: what do you say to that mother?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u246	Then I say the same thing as in the Minister's reply, namely that it is advised to look at your surroundings for help, as any single mother can, fortunately, do in other cases. 'Cause your kid's only gonna be sick once and have the flu. So it's nothing unique and nothing very special. Secondly, I have also understood that efforts have already been made in several municipalities to provide additional care and support to groups of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u247	Finally, Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u248	Yeah, last question. Do you expect that mother to act like this? 'Cause if it isn't... Those were my other two questions to the Minister. I do not expect any action to be taken. I expect that high school kid to just go to his exam. If you do not already expect her to act in accordance with the advice, what is the effectiveness of that app? That's the question we need to consider, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u249	The effectiveness of this app is that people become more aware of all risks. That's the effectiveness of this app. I trust that most of the citizens will be aware of this and will follow those opinions. As you have heard in my speech, I have also asked the Minister what he intends to do to further stimulate the behaviour of the app in the direction we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u250	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We need to do everything we can to slow down the spread of the corona virus. An application such as the CoronaMelder can be one of the tools used. But the end does not automatically justify all means. All measures taken to combat the coronavirus must be balanced between advantages and disadvantages and, more fundamentally, between different fundamental rights. This consideration has been explicitly made in the present legislative proposal. It is to the credit of the Minister that he wishes to regulate the introduction of the CoronaMelder by law. Indeed, according to the Council of State, it was also possible without any guarantees and that the law contains fairly detailed safeguards to protect the privacy of users, as well as an anti-abuse clause aimed at ensuring the voluntary use of the app, inter alia, by preventing users of the app from being unduly favoured over non-users. The question is, is that enough? Many questions have been asked about the privacy aspects in the legislative process, both by the Dutch Parliament and in the written treatment in this house and again today. It cannot have escaped the attention of the Minister that there are concerns on this point. In this context, it is therefore incomprehensible that the Minister did not send ROS's report to this Chamber until 1 October, which was already available on 28 August. The accompanying letter seems to suggest that the concerns of the ROS report have now become obsolete because the app has been modified, and that the fuss about the report would be nothing more than a storm in a glass of water. But is it? How, for example, is the concern that the aforementioned anonymous identification structure actually works with pseudonyms, which can be deanonymized? That's a lot of tough words in a row. And what about the choice to include not only the implementation, but also all collected data under the sole control of Google and Apple? This makes us dependent on the whims of these companies, who also do not want to make the source code completely public. According to ROS, this could even lead to a dormant mass surveillance infrastructure that operates worldwide on all modern smartphones and endangers the rule of law. These are big words from ROS, but I would like a response from the Minister. I would like to know whether the Minister can state by hand on his heart that the CoronaMelder app currently meets 100% of the conditions set out in the law we are discussing today. Is he also willing to respond to the fundamental concerns of ROS by subjecting the final app to a code review, a penetration test and the analysis of the backend code by ROS? Another point that has not yet been met: is the Minister also willing to have the Dutch Data Protection Authority carry out an in-depth assessment of the safeguards in the application? The authority has always said that it has not yet done so. Can the Minister promise that, if it appears to him that in practice the CoronaMelder has shortcomings which prevent it from fully complying with the conditions laid down in the law, it will immediately terminate the app? The anti-abuse clause has also been the subject of an exchange of views. It must be absolutely clear that no one can be forced to use the app, directly or indirectly. This also means that users of the app should not have any advantages from the app, other than receiving the notification. Rationally, this is logical, but the consequence that the receipt of a notification is not a factor in the ability to apply for a test will be incomprehensible to many users and can be expected to adversely affect the willingness to continue using the app. Does the Minister share this assessment? Would it not be wise to compare those who receive an app notification as to whether and when they can be tested with those who are identified as "close contact" in the source and contact research? Is the Minister prepared to give this suggestion to the GDs? Mr. Chairman. We are voting on the law today, not on the app. We have no problem with the law itself, precisely because it lays down detailed requirements for the protection of privacy and its voluntary use. Whether the app meets the requirements of the law is a question about its implementation, and that is a question that must primarily be answered by the minister and the executives. When assessing the law, it is particularly relevant to us whether we have the confidence that the minister will do this properly, will not introduce the app before the concerns have been resolved and will immediately disable the app if it proves that it no longer meets the requirements of the law. In view of this assessment, I await the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u252	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u253	Mr. Chairman. Last Friday I brought the lesson package De Third Kamer in two classes of group 8 of primary school De Schatgraver in Landgraaf. I talked to the students about the value of democracy. I also got two critical questions, questions I was happy with on the one hand, but also embarrassed. I want to share them with you anyway. For example, a student asked me: "Why should there be fewer Moroccans in the Netherlands?" Another student asked, "Why are they yelling at each other in the Chamber like that? Can't they just talk?" Mr. Chairman. I also told them how the First Chamber works. I have done so on the basis of today's debate. The students also had many questions about the CoronaMelder. I would like to put two of their questions to the Minister, and I would also like to ask him to pay particular attention to his answer. The first question of the students was: is it absolutely certain that the app works completely? Or are we gonna find out there's some big mistakes in it? The second question is: can the corona app also be used abroad? As for the last question: you should know that Landgraaf is close to the German border. I also explained to the students what a commitment is. And they are also very curious as to what commitment you want to make in their direction. By the way, the students have also asked me what happens if the Minister fails to honour his commitments. Well, I answered that, too. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister and all the officials involved on the CoronaMelder and the relevant law before us today. We have all seen that the path of the development of the CoronaMelder was full of pedals and clamps, that in the beginning a wrong path was taken and that we had to start again. Honestly, that's part of innovation. You get it, as it were, for free. So I'm not surprised. But now it's time. The Christian Union Group believes that there is more going on today than just the discussion about an app and a law. In our view, there is also a cultural change in the Ministry. And we would like to mention three points here. First of all, the government sets a good example by developing apps that meet the requirements of privacy by design, open source and local storage. And we also think of the opinion of the Dutch Data Protection Authority, which says: the AP is pleased to note that it is designed according to the standard of privacy by design. In this respect, a good example for business and also a good example for government. I would also like to add my voice to Mrs Prins' question as to whether this will also be the standard for the government. I am also saying this in the background that 78% of the members of this Chamber have a Twitter account and 81% have a LinkedIn account. So we all have accounts that use a lot of personal data. My second point is that the Minister has dared to give one of the biggest privacy and security nerds in this area, Brenno de Winter, the leadership of this project. And that there was a cultural change is evident from the three-letter word that arose during the development of the app on the ministry, and those were the letters BSB, Benno's Fear Bewind. And third: the minister has asked external parties, such as Radically Open Security, to audit the app and the associated technology. Mr. Chairman. Such an open approach leads to a certain vulnerability. This has become clear in recent days in the various newspapers, in the answer to the questions and also in this debate. Yet our interpretation is different. In our group's view, the vulnerability mentioned is not a sign of weakness, but a sign of strength. It is a testament to having external parties carry out audits. And it's also the only way to counter disinformation. In this respect, I am also thinking of the questions that others have asked, and I would like to invite the Minister to carry out further independent research on this app in the near future and to communicate its results in an open and fair manner. I would also ask the Minister to undertake to do so. Mr. Chairman. The members of the Christian Union Group appreciate the fact that an ethical analysis has been made of the notification app by independent experts in the field of ethics. The committee also stresses that the use of the app should be entirely voluntary, but says that the government can make a moral appeal to citizens to use the app in the context of collective responsibility for combating the pandemic. With regard to Mr Nicolaï, I should like to point out that this ethical report does not include words such as 'disgrace' and 'fucking corner'. In the view of the Christian Union, a moral appeal is not at odds with voluntaryity. The moral call focuses on caring for the other. And not just the other one, it's about the vulnerable one. In this context, I would also like to mention the Jewish philosopher Emmanuel Levinas. This philosopher takes his starting point not in the individual, not in the me, but in the other. He speaks of the face of the other. He says, "If you look the other in the face, you will see her or his pain, her or his grief and her or his despair. Then he orders the person to take care of her or him. That means that the other, the patient, gives me as a caregiver, as a family, as a neighbor, the order to give maximum care." Mr. Chairman. It will be clear that Levinas' tone is different from that of citizens who use the term "wood" for vulnerable citizens in society. Levinas' perspective provides an additional basis for doing a moral apple. My question to the Minister is therefore: does he share the committee's view that the government can make a moral appeal to the population? Can he also say how clear he will do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u254	I would like to have a word with Mr Verkerk on this point, the starting point of concern for the other. He comes to this moral apple from the premise that you reason from a we or from a group and not from the starting point of the individual. I largely agree with his conclusions, but I actually think you can share the same conclusion from a more liberal point of view. In doing so, you take the individual as a starting point, from freedom in connectedness or a concept like "relational autonomy".... that means that you can only become yourself in contact with the others... and you can actually come to the same care responsibilities via a different starting point. I wonder how Mr Verkerk sees that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u255	I would like to thank you for your question, which is very relevant from an ethical point of view. I think you said very nicely that there is one condition, namely that there is something about recognition of relationality and hence self-responsibility. From that perspective, I could also have relied on a liberal ethicist. You understand that I have something more with a Jewish ethicist, but most of all I quoted Levinas because he is so keenly appealing to that other person's face and that the other person is giving me an order. That is the notion I would like to bring forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u256	I thank Mr Verkerk for his attention to Levinas, a beautiful philosopher. That face of the other is, I think, something that comes in very deep when we talk about it. We all feel that, because in the end we are all in solidarity with each other because we all want to be happy. But are we talking about the face of the elderly person who might get sick? Or are we talking about the face of that single mom who gets the app and has to go into home quarantine? Or are we talking about the face of the shopkeeper who hears from a staff member "I have received a notification and therefore do not come" after which he has to close the shop? Those are the essential questions that also play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u257	Mr Nicolaï is absolutely right. You should also look in the face of the single person who gets a notification and brings the children home. The same goes for the shopkeeper. I think that this is only an invitation for us as a society to get to grips with this crisis, this pandemic, as soon as possible, in order to avoid precisely this kind of dilemma. I dare say that we pay particular attention to the weak in society. That is what this mother belongs to, but also the people who are vulnerable to this pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u258	Then I want to make the link with the law we're discussing today and with the app. 'Cause those vulnerable people you're talking about are also that mother and that shopkeeper. But then it really has to be that you can get tested if you get that notification, which is not the case, and that notification is correct, which is not the case. It's nice to talk about ethics, but those are the hard facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u259	I'll come back to this if you don't mind, one or two pages further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u260	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u261	Thank you. I also have the question to the Minister whether the board of health care institutions can make a moral appeal to their employees to use the app without being accused of abuse. And can the Minister also promise that the evaluation of the app will pay particular attention to the balance between a clear moral appeal and voluntaryness? Mr. Chairman. With the creation of the app and its legal basis, the next challenge, namely implementation, begins. Our group is concerned about three things: firstly, the information campaign, secondly, the behaviour of citizens and thirdly, the process. I'll start with the information campaign. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer I have given to the various scientific publications. I'd like to share an experience with you anyway. Reading that literature made a number of things much clearer to me than through all the discussions I've had and all the press conferences I've seen. I also became much clearer what's important. I would like to mention two points. First thing. Using the app allows any citizen to make a difference at micro level. If I get a notification, I can go into quarantine and prevent vulnerable lovers and third parties from possibly being infected by me. I would like to ask the Minister whether this can be communicated sharply in the promotion campaign for the app. Second. Using the app allows any citizen to make a difference at macro level. The scientific literature shows that five characteristics, factors, are essential. The first is that people with symptoms quickly go into isolation. The second thing is, they're all going into isolation. The third is that contacts of someone with corona also quickly go into quarantine. The fourth is that a high percentage of contacts go into quarantine. The latter is that many civilians use the CoronaMelder. I would like to ask the Minister whether these five aspects are also very well communicated in the campaign. I understand that something must be said at least ten times if it is to be right. Well, then we're still on our way, so you also have a lot of options in that regard. I come now to the behaviour of civilians. Research by RIVM shows that citizens' behaviour regarding isolation and quarantine can and must be greatly improved. Mr Nooren of the PvdA has already referred to the report Weten is not yet doing anything. I would also like to ask the Minister how he intends to try to improve this behaviour. What can the Minister do? I ask that in the knowledge that the Minister cannot do everything and that there should also be a population that is morally appealing. And then the context of public distrust. It is not a question of whether that is right or wrong, but it is a context with which, if I may say so, we should deal. A key family concerns young people. How's the minister gonna communicate with them? How is he trying to convince them to use the app and follow the rules regarding isolation and quarantine? I'm coming to trial now. Scientific research shows that it's important that people go into isolation quickly if they show symptoms. Fast isolation will undoubtedly be facilitated by a short lead time of the process of making an appointment, the reduction of the test and getting the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u262	Mr. Chairman. Mr Verkerk referred to the huge number of questions that have been asked and also to the very comprehensive answers. Between those questions there was also a question about border traffic with the app. That has been answered. It is not clear to me what else you want to know about that. I think that answer was pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u263	I didn't ask a question myself about border traffic with the app. That's the question the kids asked. I am very curious how the Minister wants to answer that question to the children. I also did not answer these questions, which the children had before me about the corona app. There were also so many, that I could not tell them anything I wanted to tell them about the First Chamber, so I agreed with the teachers: when I am gone, you will collect the questions, and then choose with the children the most important questions. So that's how I got to my first question about border traffic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u264	Clear. Then I understand that you didn't go through all the answers and questions. That could happen, but I'd do that to get a broad picture from now on. I have another question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u265	Mr. Chairman. I went through all the Minister's answers, including those on border traffic, and those were good answers. So that's my answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u266	Your third, Mr. Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u267	Okay, so then my question stays, but you won't answer it, why you want to know more. My third question may be brief, Mr President. It's about quarantine. You give a lot of possibilities of quarantine. I am also thinking of what has always been said by Mr Nicolaï, in which he asks: how do you deal with this? Do you agree that help should be provided to people who then have to be quarantined? Or do you say, "There's gonna be a whole list of all those who have to go into quarantine, and then figure it out, "zzp'er, mother with kids who have to go to school, or whatever?" How do you stand in that as a Christian Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u268	That was your third question. Mr. Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u269	The first thing I would also like to emphasise as a Christian Union is that we must try and get this pandemic down with all the possibilities so that it extinguishes. The concerns that have been raised, and I would like to take the example of a single mother, are very real concerns. And I would like us to really discuss these real concerns with the Minister, and that they are really being discussed in the different security regions and so on, and that we can try to get a little more of a directive for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u270	Mr Nicolaï a short question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u271	Yes. Of course, that example of that mother speaks for itself, also because it wakes up our emotions, but there are also less emotional points. What happens when an employer says to his employee: "Just come, because you have no symptoms, you are not sick. I might not even have to pay you your salary if you're not sick, so just come." "Yes, but I've had that notification..." "No, you just come." How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u272	This question can be answered in two ways. There's an opinion right now. This means that workers do not have an obligation to enter quarantine if workers have been in contact with someone else. That's the first thing. And the second is: if you look at the underlying issues of the moral apple, then of course that moral apple also applies to employers, to deal with it in a good way. And then, I think, there will also have to be customization from time to time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u273	Should the government, for example, be responsible for these salary costs? We're making a moral appeal to all the people who go to hell economically. That's the fun part about morality. But of course there is also a price tag attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u274	Certain words don't always connect with morality, in all honesty. I would just like to say that this is a question of detail, which is important, but you are asking too much of me to give a good answer, because I cannot see the consequences of my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u275	Then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u276	Mr President, I'm almost done. The fraction of the ChristianUnion wonders what the minimum lead time is of making an appointment, taking a test and getting the result. This includes the sum of the times of each process step. It also wonders what the average lead time is. And then the question is: what action is the Minister taking to reduce the average lead time to the minimum lead time? What action is the Minister taking to reduce the overall time taken to process? What are the possibilities, for example, of rapid testing? And what can the Minister promise on this point? Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group believes that reducing the waiting time is only possible if the Minister has a policy of over-capacity. So you should have more capacity than you really need. Does the Minister share this view? The Christian Union Group would also like to respond to questions from colleagues, such as the Norwegians, Adriaansens, Prins, Bredenoord, Baay, Nicolaï and many others, about the importance of sufficient testing capacity. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group looks forward to the Minister's answers. Above all, she looks forward to a quick and successful introduction of the app. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u277	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a law that makes it possible for the cabinet to use an app in the fight against corona. I would like to divide my speech into three parts: the effectiveness of such an app in that fight, the security of the app and the law that is now before us. The effectiveness of the app. Corona is a new pandemic, which makes us as humans realize how null and void we are as a creature. Such a disease, which has been warned by experts for a long time, strikes us completely out of the field. With man and power we try to regain control. In this new world, of course, we immediately look at the possibilities the digital world offers us. Knowledge about the spread of the virus has to do not only with medical science, but also with anthropological and social sciences. After all, the key to ending the spread lies in our own hands. In isolation, the virus can no longer continue to rage. But isolation is a man strange, and with the present economic systems disastrous for prosperity. That is why we are trying to isolate the virus. Two elements are of the utmost importance: testing and tracing. Tracking this app can help, that's the idea. The number of participants in the app is very important. Using 56% or more, the app can only bring the virus to an end, as the models show. But even at lower numbers, the app can already be effective, so the advocates aim. Even if fewer people use it, it helps reduce the curve. Opponents show different figures. When 10% of people have the app, the probability of someone getting a notification is 10% of 10%, i.e. 1%. In Iceland, the biggest penetration of the app is: as many as 40% of the population downloaded it there. Iceland did a very good job by tracking and testing extensively from day 1 onwards. By the way, the last few weeks have been a little less successful, partly because two tourists have not complied with the quarantine rules, but that aside. But even in Iceland it is said that the app was not a game changer. But that doesn't mean that the app is useless, and that's what one thinks in Iceland. The app can play a good role when it is considered in the total of the measures. It can play a good role in the early detection of infections and thus isolate it in time to prevent further outbreaks. Does that apply to all contamination sites? No, but it is for the one where an app has been present. Does it give false positives? Sure, but the false positives will be in the false warnings instead of in the missed infections. That is acceptable to our group. The app can make a positive contribution to the cocktail of measures we have in the fight, but of course this is about the cocktail. The Minister himself says in his answers that the corona app complements the regular source and contact search. But I am not going to tell you anything new, Mr President, when I say that it is horrible at the moment. How does the Minister himself feel about this? Wouldn't it have been better to spend time and money on expanding test capacity and the capacity in the source and contact research? Would you like a response from the Minister? The Minister's call is to, when there is a positive report in the app, not to have you tested but to be careful and stay at home in case of symptoms and have you tested. But that is the current policy! Why do we have an app if we can't use the only useful thing an app can do, namely early detection of infections? The Minister argues that this is a standing policy, because the PCR test doesn't say anything about the stage in which an infection is present, and therefore doesn't say anything about the infection. But, of course, we do have a very different situation here, namely the situation in which we know that there has been contact with someone who has been infected. And then the essence of the success is that new infections are detected prematurely, because this can help to stop the spread. So the Minister can tell us again why he wants an app but doesn't want to take advantage of it. The evaluation of the effectiveness of the app is difficult, precisely because no data is collected. This is a dilemma, because it can also demonstrate whether its use is effective. Of course there is another method. When making an appointment for tests, ask whether the test results from the notification of the app. Please respond to this suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the app. My group has mixed feelings about the development of this app. At the start we saw what we often see when commercial companies see a business side. They're jumping in the hole like crazy. With beautiful ideas they presented themselves in a hackathon. My group is pleased that what these companies do so often to the government did not succeed this time. Appearance is only appearance, it is also about inner, namely the technique, and it was not good. Lovend is my group about the approach that the Minister then chose: to build an open source application that was also completely GitHubded. As my colleague on the other side of the House said earlier, I would once again call for this part of the process to be taken as an example for other projects and legislation with a digital component. However, it was disappointing that Radically Open Security's report did not come out until the last moment. The argument that there was an element in it that large companies had to be informed of their vulnerability first is really bullshit. Democracy is always above the importance of large companies. And when it comes to security, the Minister could have left out the technical information contained in the report and indicated that a vulnerability had been identified that had been reported to the parties concerned. Why didn't the Minister choose this path? If we had had the debate a week earlier, the Upper House would not have taken note of that report. Does the Minister recognise that by not publishing this critical report earlier, he has greatly affected the trajectory and, moreover, the confidence that this app rests on has given a nice pinch? I'll tell you what, I immediately removed the app from the phone. I'd like the Minister's reflection on this process. The biggest problem of the app remains the forced use of the closed implementation Google/Apple and the Google Play service or Apple's App Store. To prevent Google and Apple from making improper use of the data that goes through their implementation, the Minister has included provisions in the law that is now before us. That is a good start, but it would be better if there were also a version that does not use these parties. At the time someone uses the Google Play Store they collect their data by definition. Much more problematic is that Google and Apple can both be forced by the US government to build a backdoor into the implementation under the Patriot Act. Therefore, it would be good if the government also offered a third option, apart from these two parties. Is the Minister willing to start the further development of the app after handling this law with an implementation that does not use Google or Apple? I would like to respond to my question, because this is an important point for our group. In addition, it would be good if the parties would publish the source codes of their implementation. I know this is a big step for these parties. It goes against their nature, but if it is true that they want to contribute to solving the pandemic, then it is almost their moral duty to do so. And it's possible. Together with other European countries that are also using this, we can make this happen and increase the pressure on both sides. Google has now published a snippet, part of the code, but with that the code as a whole is still not well controlled. The Netherlands is not the only country that uses this Google/Apple implementation and the demand arises in several European countries. Is the Minister willing to argue with European colleagues for pressure on Apple and Google to publish the source code of the implementation? I'd like a response from the Minister to this. Moreover, this does not say anything about a possible backdoor being built in, because parties should always remain silent about it, but it would be a small step forward towards confidence. On these last two points, my group is considering a motion. Mr. Chairman. There is something else in the ROS report, which is not included in the findings, but what they have investigated, namely the possibility to influence the tags, i.e. the beacons, of the phone. That is a risk in itself, because it would make us quite vulnerable. I imagine, when you can influence the tags of a number of Members of Parliament here and say that there is an infection, so that one, unjustly, gets a notification that there is an infection, that the whole Chamber will have to quarantine for at least ten days. How does the Minister view this vulnerability? I'd like a response. Then the law. The law regulates the prerequisite for the introduction of an app for the government. If there's an app, there's got to be a basis for it. That basis governs that the app is only used for the control of corona. If there is an app, we can't do it without this legislation. It is important that an app is voluntary and that there is no coercion. The Ministry itself is getting into a bit of a mess with the provision that regulates that no one can force anyone to download the app. How does that work out in practice? As an employer, if I advise my employees to use the app, just as I advise to wash hands and keep a distance of 1.5 meters and stay at home when the cold is cold, I still assume voluntaryity, but I am sure to tell you that a few people will experience that as compulsion: the boss says it, so it has to. The app can help identify who needs to be quarantined and tested after infection at the workplace. An infection is only discovered a few days later and then it is difficult to know if you have been with someone within 1.5 meters for fifteen minutes. If you download that app, that could definitely give you some certainty. In larger organizations, where contamination can now occur with some regularity, social compulsion certainly arises. Voluntaryity is therefore a relative concept. How does the Minister view this? What about the protection of other apps that are being rolled out, e.g. Apple's ability to be notified when an infection has been detected? Is that what this law is about? If not, can the Minister see if this law still needs to be amended? For let us not make any illusions, this data is a gold mine for many and commerce will collect it with love. Mr. Chairman. I conclude that we should not have too high expectations of the app. He won't actually fight corona in any scenario. To halt the pandemic, it remains crucial to track and test manually. I'm not telling the minister anything new. In this respect, I would like to call on him to put his money and his energy into it. The app is not pointless and, when we have the aforementioned test capacity and the manual tracing in order, can certainly play a positive role, even if it is limited. As far as we are concerned, the app falls under the adage "helping all little bits," but then all the little bits have to be present and that's what's wrong with it. The most important thing is that a notification should simply be tested and not only in case of complaints, otherwise the app is useless. We would like to see an adaptation of this recommendation. The law before us allows the introduction of an app. It provides frameworks to the app that are desperately needed. The app that is ahead of us has been created nicely, but unfortunately still has worrying vulnerabilities. I have tried to address them in my speech and I look forward very much to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u279	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Otten from the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u280	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating the corona app. Now that the corona virus has struck everywhere at once, it also immediately becomes apparent which country is tackling the crisis well and which country is less good. For example, we see that Germany is a beacon of effective policy in Europe through a proactive and effective testing policy compared to neighbouring countries and certainly compared to the Netherlands. After a fairly good start at the beginning of this year, this summer the cabinet let things slide and now we are in the middle of the second wave with many thousands of infections a day. Today no less than 4,600, an almost new record. But salvation is at hand. We have a new miracle cure: the corona app. Mr. Chairman. The management of this corona crisis is in our opinion somewhat like a fighter pilot who shaves over the polder landscape in a fighter jet at a height of 100 meters. The pilot must be constantly at its sharpest and anticipate his next manoeuvre, otherwise the fighter jet and the pilot will be completely destroyed very quickly. And so it is with the fight against the corona virus. There is much less room for manoeuvre than the Hague policy is used to. Wrong assessments have huge consequences. Unfortunately, the coronavirus has no "mildness and mercy" to quote the Prime Minister's words. Unfortunately, what the course of the crisis has shown in a painful way is the underlying condition in the administration of the Netherlands. The decision-making process is stuck in a polder swamp of consultation and coordination. This is certainly one of the reasons why the policy in the Netherlands is now so poor in relation to a number of other countries. In our view, the Minister spent too much time in the summer on issues such as the legislation surrounding this Corona app and lobbying for his controversial emergency law, which should give him far-reaching powers. Unfortunately, he forgot to scale up the test policy in time. Now we're in the middle of the second wave and the app has to offer the solution. I've been asking a lot of people today and the last few days, young and old, employees, students, people I've met everywhere, if they're gonna install the corona app. Everyone I spoke to said "no." "Is that mandatory?" everyone asked me right away. "Oh, if it's not mandatory, I certainly won't do it." That's what I hear all day. I would like to know how many of the senators present here have this app on their phones. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn er toch nog een stuk of zeven, acht.]] I'm not so bad. And does the minister have the app itself on his phone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u281	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u282	It is good to hear that the Grapperhausmotto does not apply here: do as I say, but I do not do it myself. My question to the Minister is therefore: how many times has the app been downloaded? And my follow-up question is: how many people have removed the app from their phones by now, as has just been recalled? In Ireland, a country of over 4 million inhabitants, we saw that initially 1 million people had downloaded the app, but I read that 0.5 million Irish people have removed the app again. We would like to receive an update from the Minister on the current number of downloads and the number of people who have already deleted the app. 'Cause that's what I hear from people, too, that they're taking the app off again. And while we're at it: how many people should the Minister estimate download the app to have any noticeable effect on the fight against the corona infections? Mr. Chairman. With us, the question arose as to why the government wants to regulate this app through a law. Most apps just download people themselves via the App Store or something similar on Android. Whole tribes swipe on Tinder and all kinds of other dating apps. We don't need a law for that, do we? Mrs Faber has already mentioned that. Google and Apple also have a corona app. Why not just let people choose whether they want to download those apps? Why by law? Asking the question is answering him. We are afraid that this law is the harbinger of a slippery plane. This reactive cabinet will probably, like me today, come to the conclusion in a while that few people are going to download the app. And who knows, then one comes up with a legal amendment to make the corona app mandatory with steam and boiling water. In this respect, we know the Dutch government. That is why we call for an effective, fair and efficient government. Triple-E is what we call it. As far as we are concerned, this is also the test of policy, of legislation and of this law on the corona app. As far as we are concerned, this law cannot pass the triple-E test, which is effective, fair and efficient. Is the app effective? We don't know. It should lead to more tests, but there aren't enough tests. It's like the fire department, when you call it, says: we only have two fire trucks; please don't call for small fires, because we don't have enough capacity. With this app you increase the test range. As far as we are concerned, the first priority should be testing. That is what we have been saying since the beginning of the year. Then the motives for this app. Are they completely honest? Meal delivery staff, employees of PostNL et cetera are, we understand, pressured to download the app and that is less voluntary than is previewed. Perhaps there will be opportunities for abuse in the future. As a group, we are afraid that this legislation may be intended or unintentional, but probably unintentional, and may be the beginning of a surveillance state. Then there's efficiency. The government doesn't exactly have a great track record when it comes to the efficient execution of IT projects. We remember the many examples, such as the KEI project in the judiciary, which would cost 7 million, but that, after 220 million had been spent, it was stopped because it still did not work, and the GrIT project in the Defense Department. The same is likely to happen with a new large project under the Environment Act, which has now been postponed. And I can go on like this for a while. Then I come to an underexposed aspect of the proposed App Act. Article 6d (9) of the Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19 states that "data processed under the notification application may be exchanged with other Member States of the European Union." Is this perhaps the reason why this app should be introduced by law? Will the Rutte cabinet once again play the best boy in the classroom in Brussels? This is the core activity of the VVD today, and it may also cost a bit, we have noticed by now by the expensive recovery plan. Mr President, I will conclude. We do not see the added value of the app. If people want an app voluntarily, as far as our group is concerned, there is no need for a law. But as this debate began, there was another insight into the meaning of this law. I hope I am wrong, but there is a huge risk that the following will happen: the government, which is now launching this app as completely voluntary, will come to the conclusion, like me, that it will not be a storm with that app, and will then move on to the organ donation system. Then a "yes, unless" system is made. In other words, the app is basically mandatory unless you don't want it. Of course, we should not go that way. Can the Minister assure us that this is absolutely not the case and that this is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u283	Mr Otten is literally talking about "the sloping plane"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u284	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u285	...and that he's against the law for that reason. I don't know if he knows what the definition of a sloping surface argument is, but this is widely seen as belonging to the class of deceptions; a rhetorical argument in which the opponent exaggerates and evokes an extreme situation. But it is quite clear that the factuality of sloping plane arguments is not sustainable. I am therefore curious to see how Mr Otten reflects on his own use of misdemeanours in his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u286	I was talking about "sloping plane" because I didn't want to use too many English words. I was actually thinking "the thin end of the wedge."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u287	That's a synonym for the same thing. "Slippery Sloot" is also a term that is often used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u288	Well, no. "The thin end of the wedge" means that with a small, insignificant-looking bill you're going on a path that can have very big consequences later on. That's what I'm talking about with the sloping plane. That's certainly not a misdemeanor. Absolutely not. In this case, it is a forgery to call an inclined plane a forgery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u289	I think that Mr Otten is now falling into even more deceptions, so I am going to stick to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u290	I will not talk about the reasoning technique, but about the content of what Mr Otten says. I hear him saying that this law is an advocacy to make it possible to make the app mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u291	Well, there's a risk that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u292	It could be an ops-up until... In my view, the legal text is precisely saying that this cannot be done. So I don't really understand how he sees a law that says it shouldn't be enforced and that it should remain voluntary, as a measure of mandatory use. Maybe he can explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u293	Mrs Faber has also pointed out, for example, that there is still a kind of catch-all clause that can be taken back. But of course, the law can also be amended. For months now, with steam and boiling water, all kinds of emergency laws have been passed by this Chamber and the House of Representatives. So at some point the story can come: it doesn't work, so it has to be mandatory. And then there's gonna be a law amendment. That is a path that we are not waiting for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u294	The fact that Mrs Faber also found it is not a very convincing argument. Besides, if there's a law amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u295	Why? Is your opinion more important than Mrs Faber's?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u296	Mrs De Boer has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u297	No, I'd like to hear a substantive answer. That's what you said: a law can always be changed. Yes, a law can be amended, but then we go over it again. I would agree with you if there was a law that required you to have that app. That's what we mordicus are against. This law says the opposite: it should not be compulsory.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u298	Yes, but temporary solutions often take the longest. We have already mentioned this in previous debates. The payroll tax was introduced in 1941 by the German occupiers. And the Economic Crimes Act is still there 80 years later. So we are going downhill with this law. Get to know this cabinet, which runs constantly like a crash car behind the curve instead of running in the front and actively managing it. Then the story is: it's so bad now that we have to make it mandatory. First go solve those tests, that's much more important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u299	I'm trying, if that's okay, to make a representation of that obligation. This means that the government requires us all to download the app on our phones and that we actually use it. But in theory it's possible that I have two phones, for example, I don't know if you have one and that I have the app on one phone, but I always leave it at home, and not on the other phone. In short, what is such a commitment going to look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u300	If I download an app on my one phone, it's on the other phone. It's automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u301	That's definitely not true. Especially if you use two different OSs. You have the same system. That's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u302	Mr Otten, I will now give you the floor for another brief answer on the bill that is not before us and then we will go back to the bill that is before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u303	No, but it's definitely about the sloping plane. It's not a misdemeanor at all. This is a first step. I was very surprised by Mrs Faber's substantive answers. I totally agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u304	Mrs. Gerkens, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u305	I asked Mr Otten what that would look like. How can the government force us to have all that? How's the government gonna control that? Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u306	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u307	That seems to me to be an exceptionally difficult event. But why else would you need that law? Then why does it say it's not mandatory? If I follow your reasoning, it's an empty letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u308	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u309	That's the other side of the story. What this law regulates in my speech is that we cannot force people to download that app in the working environment or other environments. It is, indeed, not verifiable either. It will soon be massively forced by the government to download that app, is not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u310	I'm starting to feel a little addressed. I stayed for a while, but I come to Mr Otten's aid a little. I said in my speech that the Minister had indicated in his reply that he did not intend to impose an obligation on the application. But the intention is not a guarantee. I've always thought of something, but then I'm gonna turn out to be doing something else. I would therefore like an answer from the Minister, because he is the only one who can give us clarity in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u311	Thank you. I suggest we go back to Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u312	That is certainly a very good question and I would like to endorse it. Furthermore, I do not hear a question from me, but from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u313	Me neither. Go ahead. Or are you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u314	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u315	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Gerbrandy has the floor on behalf of the OSF Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've been at it for four hours and I'd register for 60 minutes first, but I've only limited that to 6. After an initial false start, if this law is passed, the notification corona app is now finally ready for introduction. In view of the circumstances, and also in view of the experience in some countries, the OSF considers it very important that the app be introduced as soon as possible under absolute conditions, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, you, and also the viewer who has been glued to the tube for 4.5 hours, will hear that arguments and reasonings regarding privacy remain constant, but I would like to mention briefly a number of things that have probably already been said. Privacy must be guaranteed under absolute security arrangements. It must be absolutely voluntary and it must be guaranteed. That's why we're treating this law and I hope it will be passed. In communication, the Minister can also direct this process and make it clear to the Dutch. A third condition is that the continuous evaluation is open and transparent and that it is also communicated with the Chambers. We in the First Chamber were created to follow three things: legality, feasibility and enforcement. It's been mentioned before. The OSF believes that this law is legitimate. It is a temporary law and that temporary law has taken into account and has been tested against the Constitution and other laws, such as the GDPR, which are important in this context. I have two questions for the Minister. Those are already stated, but I would like to mention them again. Then he won't forget, I guess. I'm very, very concerned about the feasibility. That is, of course, about the test capacity, which has been mentioned by everyone. I would like to ask the Minister what guarantees he can give to increase that test capacity, because if that does not happen, then the effectiveness of this app is actually nil. There needs to be much more capacity, and I ask him to respond to this very strongly later. Maintainability has to do with the support and trust in our community. Will the action advice really be followed? If you get a notification, you'll be quarantined for ten days. The second question to the Minister is the following. He has written to us that he is still looking for ways to ensure that he can also maintain that people stay at home. What will the Minister do to make it clear that you will stay home when you have a notification? Of course, there are the problems of how it will be dealt with. These problems have been mentioned, in particular by Mr Nicolaï. In reply to Mr Nicolaï's questions, it was said that the government should support and facilitate. There should also be public affairs, where it is very difficult, with mothers, employers, whatever. Do you want to reflect on that? Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Minister will come up with clear and clear answers in the near future. If so, the OSF will gladly and wholeheartedly agree to this law, because there is something going on in the world and because we have to do something. It will never be ideal and totally sufficient, but we must and can do this. There's no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u317	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? I note that this is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 8:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u318	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the Law 35538, Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19. The government has the floor and I give the floor to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u319	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for all the questions that have been asked in the first term. I'm gonna try to answer them as best I can, but I'm gonna try to answer them as fast as I can. After having spoken some introductory sentences, I would like to start later, of course, with the questions asked by group 8 of primary school De Schatgraver from Landgraaf. I know you're watching, guys, but you need to go to bed. So I'm gonna answer your questions first, and then you're gonna go to bed soon, because tomorrow's another big day at school, and you're gonna have to be fresh for that. Once I have done so, I will first of all address the questions that have been asked about voluntaryity, then the questions about all the checks that have been done on safety and so on, then the questions about testing, for example whether that app actually works if you can't get tested afterwards without having any complaints, and all the other test questions. Then there was a question about the evaluation; there were not many questions about it. Then follow some general questions about the app and finally some general questions about all kinds of other things, which do not necessarily respect the app. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to say a few things in advance. First of all, we are discussing this app law against the background of rapid contagion at the moment. 4.581 infections were reported there today. There are almost 900 patients in hospitals, 177 of them on ICU. You can see that we are in the middle of that second wave and that we are not yet able to predict very well how high that second wave will be. What we know for sure is that in everything we do, in all the measures we take, there is really only one thing that really matters: our behaviour. There is a lot of talk about this, which certainly makes sense in the political context, and about which measure to take for what effect. The complicated thing is that in the end it is not the measures that keep that virus underneath, but our behavior that keeps the virus underneath and keeps it out of the door. There are really reasons for concern, otherwise the infections could never have increased at this rate. In fact, you should see all the measures we are taking to further support that behaviour. This also applies to the measure now before us, the CoronaMelder. It's helping. It helps us all to carry something of co-responsibility in getting that virus underneath each other. It was also advised at the time, when the OMT came up with the advice on 6 April: you would not use a digital solution to support that source and contact research. We started working on that right then. The appathon was mentioned in the first term and you probably got it then. It was there to see what really exists on the market in order to get such a CoronaMelder into use as quickly as possible. The answer was: nothing, at least nothing that met the demands we made of it, namely that it should be completely anonymous; that the source code and the design of the app should be open source; that all communication should be evidenceably safe; that there was no central storage. All that kind of requirements............................................................................................................................................................................................................. We have also said that we are not going to make any concessions. That appathon didn't get us what we wanted and that's why we set up our own construction team. That wasn't entirely risk-free, like everything we do isn't entirely risk-free. We have also said that the whole process of development must be perfectly transparent. That too is not without risk, certainly not in a political-administrative context, in which everything that happens is followed with argus eyes. Then, of course, working in perfect transparency is not entirely without at least a public risk. Still, we did it. Why? Because when using such an app it is necessary to actually build the confidence that it is safe, that it is voluntary, that it meets all the requirements that you can expect from it, so that anyone who uses the app can have complete certainty about it. That has been the reason for doing our job in perfect transparency. And what do we have in the end? Did we get the silver bullet? No, I wish, absolutely not. It's a tool and not a miracle cure. It's a stupid app, Mrs. Prins said. That was not very nice of her, but it is true, because it is indeed a very stupid app. The thing doesn't know who you are, doesn't know who you've been in contact with, doesn't know where you've been, doesn't know a lot of things. All that app does know and can do is exchange codes. Because other phones exchange the same codes, there could be a match. So you can see on your phone if you've been anywhere near someone who's been infected. That's all. That's all it is. In short, not a miracle cure but a tool. And, I liked to say that: actually, you could say that there is digital solidarity here. I think that is a fine expression by Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u320	The minister says it's a stupid app that knows nothing and can't do anything. He can send a notification every now and then. But the API is all the smarter. That's where it happens. In that API the codes are created and in the API the codes are stored. Because it is: the moment you remove that app from your phone, because you don't want it anymore, the contact details remain in the API.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u321	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u322	What I would like to ask is: does the Minister agree that the API is much smarter than the CoronaMelder, that everything is done in it and that the data is stored in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u323	That API is actually meant to make the app work. That's it. The match of the codes is made completely local on your own phone. So no, I wouldn't call the API much smarter, it's a piece of technique you need to make an app like that work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u324	It's true that that API is needed to make the app work, because the app is too stupid for that. That's where we can find each other. Again the question: does the Minister agree with the fact that the contact details are stored in the API?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u325	Sure. Nowhere is contact information stored.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u326	I find that very special, because in the answer you indicate that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u327	No, it's about the codes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u328	Mrs Faber, fourth interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u329	Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I know you're very strict. Those codes, they're contact details, and they're just stored in the API. That is what you yourself said in replying to the questions. You must be consistent in your story, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u330	Yeah, so codes, no contact details, and local, and not central. In essence, the API is not much smarter than the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u331	We are very out of tune with Germany, for example. I think that yesterday there were 2,000 new cases and we have over 4,500, and that country is six to seven times bigger. There they also have an app, the warn app, which has 18 million downloads, and no law. Does the Minister consider that this app is an important difference between the much more successful German policy, or is it entirely different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u332	The developers of the app have built together very much. Germany is also a privacy-loving country, and so we have indeed quite understood ourselves with the German developers. There it was developed by Deutsche Telekom, we had our own construction team. In the development it was quite similar. Then you come to the question of whether there is a need to come up with a law that makes the basis for its use explicit. My point has always been that that would not be necessary. I still support that statement, as do a number of groups here. I have also asked the national attorney for advice, and he also supports that statement, as well as the Council of State. Why? Because the GDPR consent requirement should be sufficient for the use of that app. That's why I didn't think it was necessary at first to have a law, but the AP advised otherwise. The reason why I came up with a law on this issue, which was already in the pipeline, but I didn't see it as conditional for being able to implement that app because I think that a public discussion on whether or not something can be done under legislation would undoubtedly get you at the moment when the AP would give its opinion and the Cabinet would also not promote confidence in the app and its use. That's why I said, okay, then we'll wait until that law is through both chambers. Moreover, I assumed that it would have been dealt with soon, but it turned out to be something else afterwards. That is why all the other countries of Europe already have the app in use, and also have it in use without any additional legislation. But in the end we have the supplementary legislation to do what we did not think was necessary, namely to specify the basis before the law was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u333	That was not an answer to my question. In Germany they also have an app, but they can also do it without law. All the little bits help. We can do that without the law. I asked: how do you explain the much better results of the policy in Germany, i.e.: much less infections compared to the Netherlands? The Netherlands is now one of the frontrunners in terms of infections. I don't think this has much to do with the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u334	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u335	We spend a lot of time here on an app while the policy starts to run wild. How are you gonna do that? That is much more important, because in Germany we can do it, with or without an app. Something's gonna go really wrong here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u336	I'll take a look at you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked that are not necessarily about this law. I actually wanted to answer that at the end, so that you could also choose how much time you would like to spend on it. I think it is wise to make time especially on the law as it stands. Then very briefly to Mr Otten's question: how is it that there are fewer infections in Germany than in the Netherlands? Behavior. Behavior eventually leads to infections. That's really just behavior. That explains why there are fewer infections there than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u337	Mr. Otten, I suggest we focus as much as possible on the bill. Of course, I am giving you the floor again, but the request for Members to really focus the debate on the legislative proposal before us. Otherwise, we need to plan a policy debate. We can do that if the Chamber so wishes, but that is not on the agenda now. Go ahead, Mr. Otten. Your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u338	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. The difference is, of course, also in the test policy. That's where things go wrong. I thought the app was meant to return to the subject of ""to get the tests in order." If the testing isn't in order, the app, with or without law, doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u339	I'll get back to you on that. By the way, you don't get infected with a test. If you're going to test, you've often contracted the infection. I don't think you can say it like you're doing right now. There's no causal relationship between them. Germany is testing about the same as the Netherlands. We often think this is a lot more. Germany does have much better testing facilities than in the Netherlands, such as very large-scale laboratories, which we do not actually have. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. But in Germany, a similar number of people are tested per 100,000 inhabitants, i.e. per capita, as in the Netherlands. Actually, there's no difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u340	Please continue your speech, Minister. Oh, Mr. Otten. Your third and final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u341	The last question. Where there is a difference, it is in speed of testing and passing on the result, which reduces contamination. I hear stories that people are just waiting for days for a test and that they only hear the results three days later. Then you can't control it. You'll keep chasing the facts, with or without the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u342	Absolutely. The testing needs to be much better. I'll get back to you on that. I'm going to spend a separate block on that. But I really wanted to start with the questions of the 8th grade, so let me do that now. Then we'll move on. Is it absolutely certain that the app is working or will we find out there's a big mistake in it? That is an important question and, in my view, a very important question that many Members of Parliament have asked here. Let's start from the beginning. We said that if we want to make the app work, everyone must be able to trust the app. That does not mean that there should be any major mistakes. This means that we have first of all set the requirements very high. That's why we made sure that the very best people in the Netherlands have said: the best and the brightest.. who have a lot of experience in building apps, helped us create the app. We also said that everything should be completely public during the making. We're not gonna do that in an attic. Everything has to be completely public, so everyone can watch and every step can also say "hey, watch out, it's not going well" or "hey, watch out, haven't you forgotten?'. Well, that all happened. Then we had the app tested all the time: how is it technically constructed, is it sufficient for anyone who needs to use it and what about information security? We just keep doing that. We'll keep testing the app permanently. In addition, we have tried it in five regions and already have more than a million users. That's why I'm so scared to say that that app is working. But now I've understood that I sometimes learn from the experience of app developing countries that they sometimes work with a bug bounty. A bug is a mistake, and a bounty is a reward if you find it. So that's what we're gonna do here. That might be news for tonight. So if you find a technical error in the app, we're going to reward you for it; that also applies to the 8th grade. I still have to think about what that reward should be, but we invite everyone to think very critically with us, to see if there is a mistake somewhere. Then the next question from Group 8. Can the corona app also be used abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u343	We will not talk about the price level yet, because you may be going to say something about this later, but if such a price is offered, will that apply only to the app or also to the Google/Apple exposure notification and the API used?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u344	If there's an error in that, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u345	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u346	Of course it's not ours, but I think Google and Apple are very happy when you discover an error in the API. But you look at it like you've already discovered it and been walking it under the arm for a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u347	It was in the report sent to the Minister. By the way, Google has also been informed of this and Google has said something rather derogatory about it. But my point was initially: is it just about the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u348	Yeah, it's about the app. It's about what we influence ourselves, namely the app. We are really very excited about that. We see that it's worked incredibly good people. They sometimes sacrificed half a summer's vacation to get that thing done in time. So thank you very much to all those brilliant minds who have worked on that. But you shouldn't rule out that there's another mistake in it. So I'm gonna repeat the invitation to watch critically with us. The finder must be rewarded, so if you could find a mistake, the bug bounty applies. I say that especially for the 8th grade from Landgraaf. Can this Corona app also be used abroad? Of course, he works abroad anyway, but he works in relation to all those people who installed the app. So let's say you live in Landgraaf and all of Landgraaf installed that thing. Then you walk with all of Landgraaf just across the border in Germany. Is he doing it there? Yeah, he's doing it there. But does he also do it to Germans who installed the German app? Well, not yet, but the European Commission is working hard to make that work. That's in a test phase right now, and it's gonna be later, but we do. We actually want exactly the same type of apps to be able to talk to each other, because that would of course help a lot. If you look at all the new virus introductions of recent times, there are quite a few foreign introductions. So this could also contribute to the solution in the future. Then, chairman, I'm going to my first block. A lot of questions have been asked, but this is actually a very small law with only a few articles. So let me start with what I think is the most important article of the three. That's the anti-abuse clause, the voluntary clause. I actually think that is the most important part of the bill, because that app should actually be voluntary. Again, this has everything to do with trust. Of course, I do hear the stories from people who suggest that I could or might force things through that app to install that app. That is not the case. I'm sure it won't work that way. Maybe in Asia, but certainly not in the Netherlands. Obliging things from the government, in this way, is absolutely counterproductive. In short, we have chosen to make it very clear that that is simply not possible. We have actually gone quite far in that, and the definition of what is not allowed is rather strict. That is the question that many groups have put on the table. In any case, the fraction of D66 did so rather sharply, as did the Party for Animals, the Christian Union and the SP. Where is the border, anyway? That's how I translate the question. Where is the boundary between what is allowed in promoting that app and what is no longer allowed in the context of pressure and compulsion? Actually, the legal text is pretty sharp on that. Drang and coercion are just forbidden. And at the level of the legislative text, also in the light of the SGP amendment that has been adopted, it also mentions exactly what is not allowed in the context of pressure and compulsion. For example, an employer should not advise its people to install the app. I think that is a very important provision. But then you'd say, "How can you even promote that app?" Well, you can, I mean, but never on an individual basis. So you can generally say as an employer: I'm excited about that app. You could say that. You can say, "I believe it helps." You'll be able to put all these beautiful posters on the wall. You can do all that, but what's not okay is you tell the employee: I think you should install that app. That's not okay, that's where you're actually going to cross the line of what you might call urge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u349	That was also our question. That sounds very plausible, but that's not how it works for employees. So if you say that in your ministry, or I, as the director of Bartiméus, it is considered: the boss thinks I should do this and this. You say in your partner strategy that healthcare organisations, which people are very dependent on, and educational organisations should see that. I do not see very well how you can guarantee that freedom and voluntaryness and at the same time want employers to have a role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u350	I think we agree that that limit is very close and that it is a fine line - I believe you said that. That's true, but I think it's possible. I think you, as the boss of a care organisation, can be excited about installing that app, which you can say you think is a good idea, that you can support the campaign that we will start for that. But I think one day if you ask your secretary and say "have you actually installed that app?', That's over that line. And I think that's the same for me. As a minister, I can be excited about that app until the day I ask my staff to ask them if they have installed that app; then things are not going well. So I guess we all feel where you can cross that line. And that sometimes you can unintentionally cross the border, we have proved that ourselves, with that mail that we have also immediately corrected. We asked employers: ask your people, your employees, to install that thing. That wasn't good. What you can do is be excited about that app an sich. You can be excited, put posters on the wall and say that you think that's a good idea; you can do that. But individually when employer asks an individual employee to install that thing, that is not the intention. By the way, neither is it the other way around. So "don't install it" isn't supposed to either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u351	Let me make a comparison with other corona measures. In fact, you are always asked to include participation, for example the works council, in the way you communicate. Take, for example, everything in the care of the elderly. I am surprised by this approach, which actually says: I as an employer or as a care organisation may do something, but in the way I do it, I have to refer it to participation. And you don't choose to do that. The Minister does not choose, and that surprises me, because that would be a way to have some kind of soil for me to act carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u352	But the step over the line is, I think, quickly made. And I'll admit that we could say that we're actually hypersensitive, and that we're actually very tight on this. But actually, you could compare it to the vaccination campaign in terms of attitude. I think you'd like to say that you think vaccination is incredibly important, but an individual employee asks "you're gonna be vaccineing, aren't you?" I'm not supposed to. You will say back: yet we have not laid it down in the law. That's right, we didn't lay it down in the law. But there was, of course, a lot to do here about the possible abuse of something that actually started voluntarily. Can you totally rule that out? Well, that is why we have said ourselves: we really want to lay down the law that this is not the intention. To really prevent that border being crossed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u353	Mrs. Nooren, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u354	We agree on that, but I'm talking about how to do a partner strategy. This is really an open question to the Minister: how do we prevent the feeling of urge, because it is an organisation that someone depends on because it is his employer or because it gives him care or education? This can be done, for example, by saying, as an employer, when you communicate about it, that the way in which I communicate about it, I refer you to the works council, who is looking at whether I am inclined to apply it. I'm trying to think along with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u355	No, I hear what you're saying. It seems like a very good thought to me. I think we could take this. But perhaps I am saying more now than we can deliver, because it will start again in a very short time. Look, whatever it takes, we mention it everywhere: he's voluntary, he's voluntary, he's voluntary. That doesn't make the posters any better, but then the message is true, namely that he is just voluntary. The second is that you are suggesting to those institutions, the larger employers, who have a works council or a participation council, to involve them in the way in which you can bring that thing to the attention of the public. That seems to me to be a good thing to include in that partner strategy. I look in need of help, without exerting any compulsion or compulsion, towards the official's lodge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u356	Perhaps something for your second term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u357	In the second period, I am going to make it a little more precise how I can come back to that. But I think the suggestion is useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u358	I just heard the Minister say that you shouldn't install it either. But I don't read that in the law. I only read in the law that you shouldn't pressure someone to install it. I myself am afraid that for example a shopkeeper says: please, don't install it, because if you get a notification, you might not have to go to work. Where does it say this shouldn't happen? That's one. The second question, Mr President, if I may, is in line with Mrs Nooren's question. Suppose you call your people in the cafeteria neatly at a distance of 1.5 meters and ask: which one of you installed the app? Just that actual question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u359	No, I wouldn't think that's the point. This is not the intention in an individual employer-employee relationship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u360	What about the first question you asked?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u361	Yes, the first question, about the legal provision. No, the legal provision refers to mandatory use. As I point out, the other way around, it's not supposed to be. The legal provision provides for compulsory use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u362	It may not be the Minister's intention, but it's not in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u363	The legal provision refers to compulsory use, i.e. mandatory use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u364	Mr. Nicolaï, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u365	Yeah, but my question was... Well, you're saying that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u366	That's right. I say: the legal provision sees mandatory use. It doesn't say in the law as such that it's forbidden to install that thing. But I do say, more in response to Mrs Nooren: you are not supposed to ban it as an employer to your employees to install that thing. Of course, that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u367	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u368	Can people derive rights from a positive notification? That's what Mrs. Bredenoord asked. I have seen Mrs Nooren's question somewhat along the lines of that: are people who have installed the CoronaMelder then promoted? Well, no, of course that's not the point. It can't be. That would be some kind of seduction tactic, and that is not the intention. This was suggested somewhat when, in the test phase, we gave people who had installed that app the opportunity to be tested without any complaints. But that was just a test setup to try out the added value of testing without any complaints. The government's position on that point, on which I will return shortly, is that the LCI directive is always being followed. That is actually completely aligned with the use of the app, the notifications that you get in it and the action advice that follows from it, whether that is digital or analog. That is also my answer to Mrs Bredenoord's question: can it give people rights? Well, same as when you show up at the GGD from source and contact research. That's the right you can derive from it. I don't think it's enough to cancel a vacation. But it's part of telling your employer that you're not coming to work today, because it's an instruction from the GGD and you should be able to follow it. Does the Minister share the view that the government can make a moral appeal? That vision has given the club that has looked at it more from an ethical point of view. Yeah, sure, of course. But again, it's a common moral apple. That is not a moral appeal that you as an individual employer should do on your individual employee, because then you cross the border of urge and compulsion, says this bill. But in general terms, as Mrs Bredenoord says, we will, of course, be able to contribute and bring digital solidarity to the fore. That will be at the heart of the campaign. She also asked if we want to make that part of the campaign. The answer to that question is yes. The SP asks how this does not force it to work out in practice. It means that no one may require another to use it directly or indirectly. That ban applies to everyone. Whether it's the government, the GGD, an employer, a restaurant owner, a movie theater or a fry cart, it applies to everyone. The Van der Staaij and others amendment, which contained a large number of parties, made that quite explicit in the law; it was initially stated in the explanatory statement but it was then put into the law quite explicitly. Then abuse can be reported to the IGJ's designated hotline. The IGJ will then either investigate itself or instruct an authorised supervisor to investigate it. If the supervisor finds that there is an infringement, the prosecution may decide to enforce it. So it's up to the D.A. to take an enforcement decision. I think that I have had most of the questions that touch on voluntaryity, but I see two parties jumping up now, so that will not be entirely the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u369	Mrs Faber doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u370	I was just sitting there waiting and thinking, "Maybe it's gonna happen." The Minister indicated that he did not intend to require the CoronaMelder or such an application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u371	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u372	Then the question is whether the Minister can give me a guarantee that he will never do that either. A plan is something other than guaranteeing something. Can the Minister guarantee me that he will not make the CoronaMelder or a similar application mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u373	Yes. I can also guarantee Mrs Faber that, should I wish to do so, what I do not want to do, so don't get me wrong... But if you imagine that on that point I would like to go through a repentance and make an obligation, then I will always have to change this bill and submit it to you first. So it won't go unnoticed for you anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u374	These kinds of answers always make me a little anxious. First he says he guarantees it and then he comes up with another excuse: then I have to change the bill first. The temporary covid law contains a safety net clause, which I also mentioned in my speech. That safety net clause can be used to create a loose end such as this obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u375	In all honesty, the question surprised me a bit. In order to really rule out the possibility of compulsory use at all, there is now a legislative proposal that would not be conditional at all on the introduction of that law, but that at least wants to regulate the things people are worried about, so when it comes to data protection and the possibility of compulsory use. In the context of dealing with that bill, I find it really strange to ask whether I would suggest that I might suddenly want to make compulsory use of it. That's why I'm answering like this. It is precisely this bill that we have before us to ban compulsory use, in order to ban it in the most clear terms. Then it doesn't make sense to say: that's not a guarantee, because it's just a plan? No, this bill is precisely intended to remove any suspicion on that point. I do not think that we should leave the suggestion hanging over the market that there may be compulsory use. That's just not the case, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u376	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u377	The whole bill is, of course, amazing. There's a bill on the table that's not really necessary. In fact, that corona app is already in the air, because I've seen it with certain senators who have already installed the app. So it's totally unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u378	What is your question, Mrs Faber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u379	Thank you, Chairman, for pushing. Well, then it wouldn't be weird for me to come up with these kind of questions, would it? There's a bill here that's unnecessary. Then I think: what is the underlying idea of this bill? They can say a lot about the government, but they're not really stupid. Then President Fred de Graaf once said to me: Marjolein, coincidence does not exist in politics. That's what he taught me. So that's why I'm a little suspicious, and that's why I think this is the steppingstone to something else. And I just want to get a clear answer to that. Is this the run-up to something else, yes or no? Leaving the rest out of it: is this the steppingstone for a sequel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u380	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u381	I do not know whether the Minister is still entitled to it, but in the context of voluntary activity I have addressed the question of what "volunteership" actually means. Voluntary means: if you're really going to make the choice "I'm going to install the app, yes or no?', Then you need to know what the usefulness and operation of that app is. Then you should get all the information you need. I have listed six points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u382	I'm gonna go into that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u383	Are you going to go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u384	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u385	I have a question for the Minister. I just heard in a small subtlety that the law will start in the short term. My question is: is there already a deal with certain opposition parties, as has also been concluded in the House of Representatives in the area of what I call the "Corona Act"? Is there a deal yet? Then I wonder if there's any point in having a discussion today. Is there a deal yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u386	A deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u387	Has there been an agreement between the coalition parties and a number of opposition parties that are needed to obtain a majority in the First Chamber? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u388	We're going to deal with this law in the House of Representatives next week, Wednesday and Thursday. As far as the cabinet is concerned, that is simply the treatment of the law. But last week I saw a number of parties expressing their agreement on a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u389	So that's about another law, not this one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u390	It's about another law, not this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u391	That's right, but I'm asking about the law now in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u392	The law that's in front of you now, you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u393	On the Corona App Act, I ask: is there any agreement with parties that you need for a majority in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u394	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u395	You have an answer, Mr. Van Pareren. Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u396	I'm still hoping for a late conversion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u397	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u398	No, Mr. Van Pareren, there's no deal, so you have an answer. Or do you want to ask another question? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u399	I appreciate you letting me ask another question. I thought I could say three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u400	I thought you were done, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u401	I've been in life a little longer. The discussion we are having about volunteering is compulsory, and that kind of thing I think is a bit of an empty discussion. With the mouth caps, for example, we have the highest alarm, except really the alarm. So it's not mandatory, it's urgent advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u402	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u403	The question is: do we now get full with this law... Thank you for asking me what the question is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u404	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u405	We are now getting this law and this law is called "it's voluntary." Examples are mentioned and we really need to deal with them realistically, because it is the reality that people in dependent positions,zzp'ers, employees and so on, are under the influence of their boss, their director, or whatever you want to call the owner of the company. They are going to be very difficult to resist and can do so very difficult. It may even be at the expense of their jobs, of family security, of mortgage security and so on. What else are you gonna do about it? Promises and fines won't help. How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u406	I think Mr Van Pareren is sketching something here that we all recognise as a possible negative implication of using that app. You don't want people experiencing involuntaryness. What we have done is to choose the most far-reaching option to do something about it, namely a legal ban on urges and coercion. That legal prohibition has been put into the law quite explicitly. Then you can report to the Health Inspectorate, at the moment you think that they have crossed the line after all. So I honestly wouldn't know what protection you'd want to offer. Everywhere in the campaign, I will mention that it is a voluntary use. We'll make that clear everywhere. So I think we're doing the best we can in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u407	Mr. Van Pareren, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u408	I wish you every success in that, Mr President, I would like to say to the Minister. I have great doubts about it. I think people are really gonna get in trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u409	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u410	I hear 'campaign', so I take it that a campaign is ready, in case the law is passed when we vote on it tomorrow. What kind of campaign am I supposed to be? What are the amounts involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u411	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u412	This is also relevant in the context of the discussion which has just been held with Mr Van Pareren on the social pressure that has then been exerted through such a campaign. Look, everyone has de facto a mouth cap now, even if it's not a duty. That's what you get from a campaign like this. There will undoubtedly be many influencers hired by you, via Instagram and I know what.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u413	So the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u414	What's the campaign? What are the plans? What's it gonna cost?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u415	I'll be right back on the campaign and I'll see if I can include the costs. I understand your interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u416	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u417	Then we continue with the next block: the checks and the tests as they are done. There's a lot of them. You've been able to read them all, so I'm gonna have to skip them at some point. From day one, we've done it in public. But we have also tested and checked everything about and over again and subjected to critical judgements. One of those tests and checks that came along was that of Radically Open Security (ROS). A report of that has recently come out. First of all, the question has been asked as to why this has come out in this way. Couldn't we have done it sooner? What I understand is that for sharing findings, which are also about companies that come forward here, a reasonable period must always be given. It's customary to do so. That's how we did it here. The fact that this report was coming had already been reported in Chamber letters. What we would have liked to do is to report on this in one of the biweekly progress notes. There's so incredibly much information in that corona file that we've agreed with the Chamber that we'll inform twice a week and only in the meantime if that's strictly necessary. We would also have liked to report on this in the next progress letter. The fact that this report would, of course, be public is beyond doubt, and that is simply important. Is this what was written about if there was an identified privacy problem? That is not the case. It contains 18 recommendations. Most of them have been followed up and six are still being followed up. In two cases, the finding has been redirected to Apple and Google. In one case, other measures have overcome the finding and in two cases the adjustment is technically not possible and would introduce a new risk. Moreover, these two do not pose a high risk. An overview of each recommendation was sent to you in the note following the report. Then where was the part about what also the newspaper got? That was about allowing GGD employees to check whether the code would actually be entered and whether it would actually arrive at the backend. First of all, that doesn't look like the information you share with a GGD employee at the time you do a regular source and contact research. That's one. Two is that it was a functionality that was initially needed in the test phase, but which was always intended to be removed in the final phase. He's also out by now, because he was needed in the test phase so that GGD employees could help the people they had on the phone and say: yes, the uploading has now been done and your code has now been passed on. It was important to be able to do that. Another question comes from the SP fraction, which is about publishing the source code by Google and Apple. Is the Minister prepared to step up the pressure with other parties in the EU? Apple and Google have already disclosed large parts of their source code. It is now being assessed at European level. Of course, we are prepared to continue to discuss this issue at European level. Furthermore, the functioning of the API is continuously monitored and evaluated by independent experts. This is coordinated at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u418	About the ROS investigation, because that was a little too fast for me. We have asked who checks whether something is being adequately resolved. We've also asked if the GD staff can't do that anymore. You say it was taken out, but where's the check on that? And the question why the Dutch Data Protection Authority is not involved in this. The same questions were asked by GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u419	Let's see. This was a possibility that was implicitly built into the software and then explicitly removed from that software. Who controls that? We build that software, so we do it ourselves. I do not believe that this should lead to new checks, because this has been taken out and corrected. From day one, the AP looked very closely, first with the requirements you had to make, and then checked if all the checks-and-balances we had built in were sufficient. The AP has really been boundlessly involved, from beginning to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u420	I'm kind of looking for this. You say there are all kinds of screenings going on and you keep doing them. We're very happy about that. But my question is: where is the control, where are things detected, in what time is it resolved? Who controls it, for the sake of security that we want with each other? That part remains a little unclear to me. Normally, when you've delivered something and you mutate, there's someone who's not only controlling but also acting. If VWS takes it out, who's gonna check if something's still in there? My experience is that sometimes it's different than you think it is as the one who gave the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u421	That's about the explicit flaw that we're dealing with here. In this case, I think it should be seen as something that is explicitly built in as functionality for the test phase and that is now explicitly taken out after the test phase. Who checks it and who sees it? The whole community's watching all day. I think it would stand out quite quickly if that possibility still existed, quite frankly. But let me double check for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u422	There's no double-checking, it's checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u423	I just double-checked it anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u424	It's just checking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u425	It can be seen in the source code. It's public and anyone can see it. That's the answer I just gave.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u426	I think it is very important, and I believe that the Minister has also indicated that we are very careful when it comes to security and that we get good answers and give good answers. It is absolutely not true that large parts of the source code have already been made public. There's only a very small section, a snippet, made public, but that whole Google and Apple exposure notification is still a big black box. We can't see what's going on in there. I welcome the Minister's commitment, because that is how I feel about him going to increase the pressure on Google and Apple at European level to publish that source code. My question to the Minister is: how are you going to do that and how are you going to report back to this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u427	I'll let you know exactly what I'm going to do in writing, which part of the source code has actually been checked at the moment. At least this is coordinated at European level. According to my information, this applies to a large part of Google and Apple's source code. The functioning of that API shall be continuously monitored and evaluated. I will let you know in writing exactly what has become of this and I will also let you know in what way we will continue to engage with Google and Apple in a European context in order to reveal as much of the source code as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u428	You continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u429	Another question from Mrs Gerkens concerns a third option: is the Minister willing to go with other parties except with Google and Apple? I'm quite willing to explore that option, but right now this is the functionality that seems to work best. But I am very willing to see if there would also be another way, namely without Google and Apple, to achieve the same functionality. Data is a gold mine, says Mrs Gerkens, and she asks: how do you ensure that Apple and Google do not use those data themselves? There is an agreement that we have to sign that, before we would work on that API of Google and Apple, the app that we would build would not send personal data towards Google and Apple. Otherwise we should not have used it at all. If we take advantage of that, we'll be thrown out. And if Google or Apple takes advantage of that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u430	That wasn't my question. My question was about the fact that any other party can, of course, develop such an app in any way. There are already more parties that have developed all kinds of covid apps. This legislation is now being made specific for this app or for the roll-out of an app by the Ministry. Does it also apply to commercial apps?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u431	Yes. The answer is yes. The law also applies to similar digital means. They are also subject to a ban on compulsory use. Too bad, I had such a nice answer, but you don't want to hear it. Too bad. I had a very nice technical argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u432	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u433	Then a comment on the 25% margin of error in relation to the criteria of Wilson and Jungner. I hadn't heard of that before, if I'm being completely honest, but maybe I'm being too honest already. That margin of error has been determined in relation to the limit of 1,5 metres. The app, like the source and contact research, looks at that five feet. If a notification follows, the contact was within 1.5 metres and over 15 minutes in 75% of the cases. So if a notification follows from the app, it is accurate in 75% of the cases. Within 3 meters, the app was accurate in 90% of the cases. And in any case, it was within 10 meters accurate. This means that the reliability of the app is quite high in practice, according to what you can expect from a regular source and contact research. Wilson and Jungner's criteria are about screening a disease. This app doesn't screen if someone is actually infected. The app is a tool to notify the user that he has been in contact with an infected person. There's a difference. We have looked at this in particular, and we have also had it scientifically validated, whether this is very different from the analogue situation. We have believed that in an analogue situation you can never be absolutely sure whether you have actually been within 1.5 meters or have been in contact with someone for more than 15 minutes. That's always an assessment you make. If the app says you were within 1.5 meters for 15 minutes, then 75% of the time you were within 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u434	I understand that the Minister has finished answering the questions about ROS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u435	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u436	Then I'm afraid all my questions have been overlooked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u437	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u438	Indeed, we have had an annex containing all kinds of very specific issues on which ROS has reported. ROS said how the opinions had been followed and that those matters had generally been resolved. But the report itself also comments on the dependency of Google and Apple in general and the dormant mass surveillance infrastructure. I had asked for a reflection on this point. Can the Minister state that the app really meets 100% of the front walls of the law? In addition, I had asked if the Minister would be willing to have two final tests by ROS, but also by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The Minister just said that the AP has already given a lot of advice, but the AP itself says that it did not give the final opinion. She didn't make the in-depth assessment final. That's what our question was about. Is the Minister prepared to ask for that in-depth final assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u439	It's three questions. The first is more of a contemplative question. Other groups have also spoken about this, not so much in the questioning sense, but more in the asking sense. They think this is a step towards a surveillance society. I sincerely believe that this is not the case. That can't be the case, because the app isn't watching you. That app just can't. I started with the remark that it's actually a stupid app. That's true at the moment. The app doesn't know who you are, and he doesn't know where you are. He doesn't know who you met. That app doesn't know anything about that. I don't see that concern. I do think there is a concern in part of society that we would go that way. That is why I think it is so important to emphasise time and time again, if this is suggested, that this is not the case. I think it is precisely the concern that can stand in the way of confidence in using the app. I think it's important that this thing is used. That's why we trained him so dumbly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u440	That wasn't exactly my question. With regard to the app, I don't share the fear. The fear is more in how dependent we make ourselves on big companies like Google and Apple in the development of such an app. Isn't that the way you're going that you're going in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u441	We deliberately wanted to use Google and Apple's API, especially in order not to unduly violate privacy. At the very beginning, just after the outbreak, there were other variants. I was in contact with my English colleague, who had made a variation on the location data, so just turn it on at a location. With that he was already in a test phase, but in England they came back from that. In fact, all the countries that did so on that basis, i.e. without Google and Apple's API, have come back to that, because it was more invasive in terms of privacy than this design. Although I share the basic hesitation about the influence that such techrists have and I can also feel with it, I am pleased that this step has been taken here, because it makes it much easier for us to build an app that does what it has to do, but at least in an invasive way in terms of privacy violations. That is why I am happy in this respect with the step they have taken. This is without prejudice to the fact that there are, of course, many concerns about the enormous impact this kind of large companies have on all of our lives. Some of you have said the same thing. We have developed this app with a lot of eye-watching argus eyes. We install all kinds of apps on our phones carelessly and give away our privacy to companies not only Google and Apple.......................................................................................................... If there were anything of the security with which we have gone through this process in our general use, there would be a lot less risk of data abuse. Then there are the other two questions. Are all the requirements now met? The answer to that is yes. All the requirements are really met. Then the AP. Why hasn't the AP had an in-depth review done again? The AP made that in-depth assessment and gave me all kinds of advice. I'll follow it. The further information did not assess the AP in depth.That's also the usual way of doing things, because the AP's statement is that it's the responsibility of the executive in question to ensure that you meet the GDPR's requirements: "I've given advice on what to do in it and you just have to follow that." At a later stage, they may decide, of their own motion, even independently, to make an in-depth assessment. I have the impression that if people had any worries or hesitations about this app, they would. Subsequently, the privacy impact assessment did not reveal the need for additional advice. A second opinion from an external party also gives no reason to do so. That is why I do not see any reason to ask the AP for additional advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u442	Then there is Mr Nicolaï, or Mrs Bredenoord.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u443	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Mr. Nicolaï. I'm not quite sure if the Minister had finished answering my questions about those criteria, but I did get that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u444	Yeah, actually, I do. But you didn't think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u445	I'm asking this for a reason. This is a precedent. It is the first time that the government will use such a digital technique and it will certainly not be the last time, so is my suspicion. Somewhere we need some kind of hold. When will the quality be good enough? When won't it be good enough? The criteria of Wilson and Jungner played an important role internationally. In the 1960s, the World Health Organisation was commissioned to come up with criteria for providing screening, such as colon cancer screening or breast cancer screening, which is what is commonplace here. When is the quality good enough to offer it? If you're going to screen 100,000 women for breast cancer, you'll always find one, but you don't want 99.000 women to have to take such a test wrongly and get a false negative result. It's not worth it. Those criteria have been developed for this balance sheet. In a new screening in the Netherlands it has to pass the Health Council: is there common ground? That's what I miss on this app. Hence my question: if there are no such criteria, can you not, for example, instruct the Health Council to develop this specifically for digital technology? I think we're gonna need it because otherwise it's gonna be ad hoc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u446	My second question would be: does that equation go all the way? The first is, of course, a screening tool. This screening is also burdensome for the people themselves, regardless of the costs and efforts involved. But they are also about the degree of taxation. Breast cancer screening is just incriminating for the people who have to undergo screening. That actually applies to all screenings. That is the background to the development of criteria that such screening should meet. Here it is not quite comparable, because installing an app is not incriminating. I think we can make that difficult. Then the question is to what extent you evaluate its effectiveness and whether you are willing to do so, if the conclusion is that it is not effective and has no added value, then not to do it again. I have also said in the debate in the House of Representatives that I am prepared to do so. There would actually have been a block of evaluation. I'm sure I'm willing to do that. At present, in accordance with the developed evaluation protocol, we are examining how the adoption is, how it is used, what the direct effects are, what the indirect effects are, but also what the non-intended effects are. This is how we want to use this evaluation. It's gonna take a while for you to actually have good data. This also allows you to assess whether it has sufficient added value. In order to define criteria when you withdraw them from the table or when you find a technology an added value in advance, I would find it complicated, also in view of the different technologies that are being used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u447	Thank you for this very comprehensive answer. To begin with, this app can also be perceived as incriminating by people. We've just been talking about those chilling effects. Even if it isn't a GPS, there will probably be people who feel like: oh, I have a government app. There will be people who experience that as incriminating. I think that's a burden. But the people who get a message and have to stay at home when they didn't have to, there's demonstrable damage. That may not be as annoying as an invasive study, such as in colon cancer screening or breast cancer screening, but we don't really know that yet. That is why it has been said, for example, that if the test falls below 95%, because we are talking about such high percentages there, then we are not offering them. Now it's just a little wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u448	Your question, Mrs Bredenoord. Otherwise, you will be working on your second term and you will be able to do so later. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u449	I'll do that in the morning. I would like to ask the Minister once again to think about establishing a framework of criteria for the provision of this kind of technology. That may not be possible for this app right now, but I think we need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u450	My hesitation is here. I certainly think that you should examine the effectiveness and added value of this. This is indeed the first time that we use technology in this way, on this scale, with the government as sender. Of course, there are a lot of digital tools to improve care. There are a lot of them, but mostly the government is not the sender of them. This also means that, in this case, we have made an evaluation protocol on the front, whereby adoption, use, direct effects, indirect intended effects and unintended effects are all evaluated on an ongoing basis in order to learn from them. Then I got the question in the House of Representatives whether there could be a moment when you say that the added value is so thin that you should stop. That's when I told you to be willing. If you are not interested in the results of the evaluation, then you should not carry out the evaluation at all. From the mere fact that we do want to do that evaluation, you may also conclude that we are interested in that. Then you say: could you also come up with a framework to say in advance whether you are willing to use this kind of technology or whether you should be willing to use this kind of technology. This kind of technology, I think, is still very difficult to define at the moment. At all, technology in healthcare, which is very much there, is certainly assessed for added value, but they are not all measured in the same framework. Use of e-health, home automation, image bubbles and so on, all of which are incredibly important to actually improve care. But can you read that to the same framework in advance? I think that's very complicated. Nor do I consider him comparable to medical screening for many reasons. So it seems complicated to me to say in advance how you could put a framework on that. But I have a whole night to think on my way to the second term, so I'm gonna think about how that would make sense. If I were the Health Council and I would get such a question, I would honestly have no idea how I should come to an answer to that. But you look like you'd really like to ask such a question, so I'm gonna think about it and I'll come back to that tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u451	When it comes to effectiveness, you can think of two things. We just talked a little bit about that 25%. I could also ask you whether you think that is sufficient at the moment and on what basis. But I want to talk about a different effectiveness. The app is deployed and leads to someone getting a notification. That notification means you have to go into home quarantine. Then it's obvious that the single mother, the student or the employee wants to know how reliable that is. After all, he has to give up a lot of money for that. Then I see that, according to your own investigation, in six out of ten cases, someone can get a notification that wasn't at all in that five-foot radius. If that happens in the newspaper once, do you really think that everyone says: yes, that's a reliable app and if I get a notification, indeed I'm not going to the exam, indeed I'm not going to take my kids to school and indeed I'm not going to see my boss?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u452	Let me ask you another question. Suppose you hear from the Health Service that you have been in contact with someone who was infected and that is why you are advised to stay at home. This is the opinion that all Category 2 contacts are given in accordance with the LCI Directive. This is simply a professional directive, drawn up by epidemiologists and virologists and adopted on the basis of the international directives of ECDC and WHO. That is simply the directive. Would you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u453	I think so, because I'm assuming that the investigation of the GD is correct. But what I'm presenting to you is that your own investigation shows that there's no GD involved, just a phone and bluetooth that six out of ten people are told to stay home when that's not necessary!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u454	No. Those six out of ten are about the possibility that the contact may have occurred in part outside of 1.5 meters. That's what that's about. In accordance with the LCI Directive, Category 2 contacts must remain at home. Of course, this source and contact research is done in a good way, but also in analog studies can of course make mistakes. The only thing you can find here is arithmetical. Analog tests are more difficult to determine arithmetically, but also errors are made in analogue measurements. It has been established here that 75% of the notifications made are correct notifications. So you get a correct report that you've been in contact within five feet. The margin of error was set at 25% of that limit of 1.5 metres. That's how the reading was done. If you determine that error margin, the question you then have to ask is to what extent it differs from that in the analogue execution of a source and contact investigation. Can it happen that people come home wrongly? Yeah, that's all in the game. This also applies to regular source and contact research. What matters is that there is only one way to break that chain of distribution, namely by ensuring that people who have been in contact come home. That's the only way to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u455	Mr Nicolaï, the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u456	It's just not true what the minister says. That 25% relates to the question whether, if you have been within that 1.5 metres and that report comes up, there may still be errors in that. That's 25%. They say it's only reliable in 73%. But 59%, as it says here, of the notifications is unjustified. False positive. It says here: that means that the person has had a notification, but in practice was therefore not close enough in the investigation, i.e. within that 1.5 metres, to have run a risk of contamination in accordance with the RIVM Directive. So six out of ten doesn't get within five feet wrong. That's what your research says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u457	If a notification follows, the contact was in 75% of the cases within 1.5 meters and over fifteen minutes. In 90% of the cases it was within three meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u458	I read to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u459	Mr. Nicolaï, fourth and last. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u460	I'm just reading from your own field research, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u461	Me too, that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u462	Where does that say about the 90%? I haven't seen it anywhere yet. I saw it in your answer. Then I thought, "Something's being shuffled again." But in this investigation it simply says: 59% has been wrongly notified. Those are the mothers, the employees and the students. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u463	Let us not discuss numbers here, because tomorrow I will be perfectly correct in all the numbers you are quoting. But I'm gonna say one thing. In all source and contact research, even now, also in an analogue variant, it is possible that you designate people as part of a close contact with the index, in which you have not been able to determine with certainty whether they have actually been 15 minutes within 1.5 meters. That's always a professional assessment being made. Is there a margin of error on that? Yeah, there's a margin for error. Is the margin of error in this technique such that it makes no sense to use it? No, that has been established by all the experts and you can also see that in the field test. The margin of error is such that this technique is of added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u464	Mrs. Nooren, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u465	In concrete terms, we would like a response to the field test of 8 June 2020, in which it is literally stated that 59% of the cases result in a false positive test. That's a lot. If that is in all cases, then a lot of people have to stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u466	I'll get back to those exact numbers tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u467	I would like to raise another issue, to give some rest in this area of misunderstandings about figures, which is, of course, a pity. I just wanted to go back to privacy. You mentioned earlier in your story: we already give everything to Google and Apple, everyone already knows everything about us. But in this case, privacy is about nothing more or less than your own health. There is something other than my home address or my address. But I don't want to risk anything about my health lying on the street. Do you realize that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u468	Oh, yeah. But there can be nothing about your health on the streets, at least not when using this app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u469	So you are guaranteeing that it is absolutely impossible for personal health data to come from wrong people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u470	Yes. They are not shared. There's only numbers being shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u471	Fine. I'm happy about that. I have a second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u472	That is the third part of this interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u473	No, it's the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u474	For the clarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u475	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u476	An interruption is a short, explanatory question, which may be followed by a second and a third follow-up question. But an interruption does not consist of three separate questions. You will now have the floor for the third time in this interruption, and that is usually the last time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u477	Thank you, Mr President, for this opportunity. You mentioned Google and Apple as companies that actually volunteer to participate in this entire program. There is no money involved, that is from those companies a social message or whatever. Favours are granted in business, but it is often also "for what needs to be done." It's kind of like "what's the change?'. For example, have you asked Feike Sijbesma, a businessman we no longer see, for advice on what to expect in the long run, perhaps in a much wider field than just the corona app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u478	Did I ask Feike Sijbesma that question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u479	I care what the outcome was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u480	I'm gonna rephrase the question, or we might misunderstand each other. Did I ask the question what might be in it for Apple and Google and why they are so excited about this theme? No, I didn't ask Feike Sijbesma that question. But if you were to ask me that question, I would say: well, perhaps because they are also companies with a sense of social responsibility and because they understand that at this stage and in this huge crisis everyone's commitment is simply necessary. Fortunately, I see that in a lot of companies, companies that are also on earth, of course, to make a profit at the end of the day. Of course. But that's not the only thing that drives people. Businesses also employ people, people who want to be of added value to society. Seeing that this is the biggest crisis since the Second World War, there are of course a lot of people, including within companies, who want to be a solution, to offer a solution and to be part of the solution to this enormous crisis. That's the attitude I see in a lot of companies. That's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u481	Then I shall give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u482	Then I'll go to the questions about testing. There's quite a few of them. It was said that in the test phase you started the app in the five regions in the east of the country, where people were given the opportunity to test without having any complaints. That's right. We also did this at Schiphol Airport and in a test setup with the people who emerged from source and contact research. The OMT had advised us that the best way to test people without complaints could be of added value. You've got them in the picture before, and you've got the presymptomatic transmission in the picture before. Imagine you'd pick them out and then break through all that chain of transfer because you put them on the couch at home, you'd probably have a few less infections per infected person. Actually, I have to say, per contagious person. To be honest, I still believe that this is an option that could work well, but for a number of reasons, I do not choose to do so now. The first reason is that we did this in a test setup. That test should first be evaluated. I haven't gotten the evaluation yet, so we're not choosing to do that right now. It is actually everyone's view that testing the people with complaints is always more important because the percentage of finding there is just higher than testing people without complaints. So if you have to balance between testing without complaints in the app or make sure that the flow rate of testing the people with complaints is better, the latter is always more profitable in the context of disease control than testing people without complaints. If the test shows that there is added value in testing people without complaints and if it turns out that there is actually no brake on the test capacity, would I still be prepared to do so? My answer is yes. But then we'll be a little further than we are now. A lot of questions have been asked about the test capacity. We are now about to increase the laboratory capacity, which was the most important bottleneck in the past period, to 56,500 tests per day in the available laboratory capacity. That's incredibly much more than we had a month ago. At the end of this month, I hope to be able to perform 70,000 tests a day. Then, of course, the bottleneck becomes the reduction capacity at the GGD. You can have so many lab supplies ready, but you're gonna have to take all those tests. It takes a lot of people. Those people need to be trained and so on. The GGDs are working incredibly hard to get that right. Imagine if you manage to adjust that pace of scaling up lab capacity with the reduction capacity, we'll have 70,000 tests by the end of the month. Next, the lab capacity is growing. I'll send a progress letter to the Chamber once every two weeks, in which the development of the lab capacity is much further in the coming period. But that's all PCR capacity. At PCR capacity, I want to achieve a standard time of two times 24 hours. I want a target standard that takes 24 hours from calling the GGD to when you have the appointment and then 24 hours until you get the results. That's doable with a PCR test. But if you could really think of what you really want, you'd want to go to an even faster decline. The faster the decrease, the faster the consequence of that decrease, namely the action advice you give. The sooner you do that again, the less chance there's of infection. So what I would really like is a larger deployment of quick tests. But in order to do that, you have to test those quick tests for reliability first. That's what we're doing right now. We have a very nice test in our own development. That's what I ordered in the spring, I thought in April. TNO developed it. That's the LAMP test, a kind of simplified and accelerated PCR, giving the results in 45 minutes. This is currently being tested in the test street in the RAI in Amsterdam. This is one of the innovative methods. Another innovative method is, for example, the breath test. This is also being tested in many settings at the moment and every time we look at how high the reliability is and therefore also what application you might expect from it. For example, if the test is very good at displaying reliable negative results, you could use it at the GGD prior to PCR sampling, to filter out the negatives. That would be a great help. For this type of application, the rapid test is currently being examined, and this can ultimately greatly reduce the load on PCR capacity and greatly promote the throughput of the test reduction. If you manage that, it also reduces the burden of the whole test. 'Cause it's incriminating now, of course. Of course it is, especially since the lead times are very bad at the moment. I think, on average, it might take us twice as long than we actually had. That's gonna work out in the near future, but the introduction of quick tests could really help. That is why we are actually trying out all the quick tests that we really expect to add value to. In addition to the two I mentioned, we have five different antigen tests that are currently being tried out. In addition, the reliability of the test is always assessed in order to be able to actually use the test as a kind of foreportal of the PCR tests, which are carried out by the GGD. And yes, that's a lot of money. We pull that very hard, but you have to always put the reliability in the picture, to know what you can do with it and what you can do with it. When are we going to decide on this? I sincerely hope that we will have all the results of the tests we are currently testing this month, so that we can actually decide on their deployment at the beginning of November. In any case, we are already buying in large numbers, so that we can use them on an ever larger scale if the tests work out well. At least there's no brake on that. I have now put together a number of questions. I think this was basically the question of testing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u483	I would like to ask the Minister the following question. If you want to shorten that lead time, you can do it with excess capacity. If the tram drives often enough, you don't see when it leaves. The most ideal situation would be that there is overcapacity. Then you just drive over there and get tested. Preferably, the opening hours are wider than the traditional office hours, so from morning at so many hours to evening at so many hours. When do you think that situation will be reached? And do you want to achieve that situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u484	A few answers to that. Yeah, I agree, although the GGDs have just done a great job in efficiency, so how fast you're gonna go through the test street with us once you get that appointment. It is true that the demand at the moment is much higher than the supply, but the moment you have the appointment, you go on a fast train through the street. That is an extremely efficient process. I don't think we're gonna get that much more efficient. Without an appointment just standing in line, I don't think at this stage would bring much improvement either, because then you're going to organize huge traffic jams. I want to get to that overcapacity anyway. We're buying in a huge amount of laboratory capacity. The bottleneck I see much more is the capacity on the test streets. It is no longer on the laboratory capacity, because it is increasing very strongly, with a lot of large numbers added week after week. The point at the moment, Mr President, is an apology, but this requires a slightly longer answer to be able to buy that large-scale lab capacity in Germany. You know that we actually started at the beginning of the year... Or no, when the outbreak in the first wave was... Or let me tell you from my own start. When I started, we had a very restrictive testing policy. That was the reason to call Feike Sijbesma on the Sunday after I started and say: "Would you like to help me, because we have such a restrictive test policy and I have the feeling that it is also a bit of a circle. Suppliers supply us little because we have a restrictive test policy, and we have a restrictive test policy because we can't test much." So that's what we need to break through. We must try to break that by building capacity very quickly. And we have to choose the fastest way to build that. And so we started validating more labs. And so we have indeed started very intensive conversations with the larger suppliers of the machines and the materials in those laboratories. And so, each time we increased the capacity step by step, until we could also expand all the target groups and from 1 June we could say: now everyone who has complaints can be tested. That has actually gone pretty well for a long time. Looking at the beginning of the summer, we had a double capacity compared to the number of people who reported with complaints. And that large-scale capacity, which we actually want to have in our own country but which we knew we had to get abroad first, we didn't really think we needed until autumn started, so let's say about now. But in the second week of August, demand suddenly started to rise very quickly, and that demand quickly got higher than what was ready for laboratory capacity. And that's why we brought forward the contracts with those foreign labs. That's how we got those large-scale labs. And that is actually the answer to Mr Otten's question: what is the big difference between Germany and the Netherlands? Well, we have, I think, quality really a very nice laboratory landscape, but hugely fragmented. Really shredded, and a lot of smaller laboratories. And those really large-scale laboratories they did have in Germany, which they actually had for years, we have never had them in the Netherlands. The agreement I am making with a number of initiators is, by the way, about how we could get that large-scale laboratory capacity in the Netherlands. We never needed them before the crisis, but now we have seen that they come out in a very practical way when you need them. And so I really want to stamp out that type of large-scale capacity in the Netherlands as soon as possible. And so we are constantly expanding the laboratory capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u485	Verkerk, one last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u486	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answer. There's one thing you're unlucky about. Because I've been a manufacturing manager and I know how to scale up production. But this also means that if you want to scale up the test, you have no option other than to get multiple centers where it can be taken. So I'd appreciate it if you could promise me that you, left or right, will come up with a plan when we can reach the situation where I can just call, go there, get tested and get the results the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u487	This is about my day job, so to speak. So that's what I'm really doing, indeed, to achieve that situation. Because the faster that running speed goes on testing, the faster you can then use the sequence of action, namely: stay at home if you have complaints and also ensure that your contacts stay at home when they have been in contact with an infected person. That's what you want. And the higher the flow rate, the less the burden on society; especially in the winter period, where the number of respiratory infections is larger anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u488	Then it must be very easy to make that commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u489	In fact, I send a letter to the House of Representatives every two weeks. And I understand your burning interest, so I think that I should send a single progress note, in which it is described in more detail, or a copy of it, to the First Chamber, too, so that you too can keep up with it. 'Cause that's definitely the point, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u490	Let's talk about the tests. You said you were done with the answers to the tests, right? I had two more questions. One. In the written replies to the final report, the government writes: we expect that the introduction of the app will not require further testing. That answer surprises me, because then we'll do all this for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u491	No... Oh, then it's very good that you come back to this. No, if the LCI directive, the test directive, is "you have to test if you have complaints," then it will not be different with the app. Because you have to test yourself if you have any complaints, and you had to test yourself anyway if you had any complaints. You will then say: yes, but what is the added value of that app? Well, that it's better and more complete able to remember the contacts of someone who's been infected. I don't remember who I was sitting next to on the train yesterday; I wasn't on the train yesterday either. I don't know who I've been standing next to at a bus booth, who I've just been a little too close to at work. I don't remember any of that, but that app does. That's useful, and that's why the app makes the memory better and more complete, and then the intervention even faster. Because before you call all those contacts, especially with the current pressure on the GGD, you'll soon be a few days away...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u492	Should we suspend, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u493	If Mark Rutte calls, do you have to answer when you're in the middle of a debate with the Upper House? Actually, no, huh? I'm just not gonna do it. I'll say, can I call you later? The answer is: no, he is very meaningful. We have a more complete picture of who you have been in contact with and we have a faster intervention. The moment you enter your key, your contacts will be informed immediately. That doesn't apply to the source and contact research. There's at least one more day in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u494	My question is: does the Minister therefore expect that the introduction of the app will not lead to more people being tracked down? That's my conclusion. For you have literally written in the answer: we do not expect to have any more tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u495	I'm gonna try one more time, because this is an important question. If the LCI directive remains as it is today, namely testing if you have complaints, the added value of that app is that it is more complete in the reminder and better in the intervention, because at once; the action advice goes to all your contacts at once. So if the question is whether you expect more contacts to be tracked, the answer is yes. Do you expect more people to be tested? The answer to that is for the time being, with the current LCI directive: no, because you have to test yourself if you have complaints. So even the people who receive a report should not be tested immediately. They need to be tested when they get complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u496	I'd like to give it a try anyway. We all know that some of the people who get corona have a single complaint and think, "Well, never mind." They walk around nicely and things like that. I would expect you, if you use that app and get a report that you've been within five feet of someone who has corona, to be overly alert. That's how I know it from people, even in source and contact research. Then we say to all employees: if you feel anything, don't smell well or have more diarrhea, those are the atypical complaints, let yourself be tested, even if you have a single complaint. But the Minister denies this. I'm worried about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u497	No, if you put it that way... Look, just basically, you need to get tested if you have any complaints. That doesn't change with the introduction of that app. But you're right that people may be more alert if they've received such a notification. It's possible. This could indeed lead to a larger test question, and that would indeed lead to more testing. But if, on the basis of that test, I have the current numbers on the retina, I don't think the GGD is going to startle that test question very much; I don't believe that. Basically, you just have to get tested if you have complaints and not without having complaints, unless the LCI Directive is going to change at all. But if that directive is amended, it will not only be changed for app contacts, but at all for category 2 contacts from the BCO, i.e. for all close contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u498	I have listened with great interest to the Minister's entire exhibition on testing, which is very relevant in this discussion, even if you want to limit it to the app as much as possible. The Minister's track record on this point is certainly not good, because he is actually late with scaling up every time via the rear-view mirror. They're exponential processes. Before it doubled and flooded, the bath was half full. You say yourself: we expected it a little later and didn't really scale it up in the summer because we didn't expect it until the end of the year. That was an expensive mistake. Now we're in a big uptick with infections. Have you considered, considering what someone else just said, that you should have overcapacity and go for the curve? The numbers I just heard, 50,000 to 70,000 in a month, maybe again, are far too low. Well, that's very essential, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u499	The Minister. And then I suggest that we confine ourselves once again to the subject on the agenda: the app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u500	Let me take away a misunderstanding. Mr Otten assumes that overcapacity is not controlled, but that is not the case. It is not that we have thought: well, about 30,000 tests a day will have to be taken and let's finish there. That is not the case. There is indeed a capacity-to-hand steering system. But the point is also that it is an unprecedented crisis, with an unprecedented world demand for testing. It's part of a trial like this. In such a process, all sorts of things are disappointing in relation to the endeavor you have. For example, the production losses have been much greater than we had hoped and thought. We wanted to seek greater supplies from the larger suppliers, but that proved to be very complicated, because the whole world uses the same stuff, the same machines and the same reagents. For example, we have had numerous setbacks in the effort we have made. So it's definitely not limited to 30,000. Even now, the introduction of more laboratory capacity is rather limitless when it comes to the question of where the top of what you want is. So I don't recognize myself in the image that we've thought of: well, that's about enough. No, we've been wanting and trying to get more lab capacity at all these times. It is true that in the Netherlands we are really dealing with a different starting position than a country like Germany or Denmark. We don't have very large-scale labs. We have very good labs. It is a very fragmented landscape and this requires enormous coordination. I think that there is still a real gain in coordinating and directing this whole test chain, in which the GGDs and all kinds of laboratories have a role to play. So there really is still a lot of work to be done. Furthermore, I have just indicated that the Netherlands also wants such large-scale laboratory capacity that one has in Germany and actually had before the crisis; that would have been a much easier starting position for them than it has been for the Netherlands. Looking at where we are now and also the speed with which we can scale up, I do expect that we will be able to meet demand again in the foreseeable future. But with one blow to the arm, namely the speed with which that demand develops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u501	Two things. First of all, the test capacity and the indication to test only if you have any complaints. On the one hand, I understand the underlying reason why the Minister wants to, but on the other hand, I think it is a huge missed opportunity not to go over to being tested if you have received a notification. So is the Minister prepared, when the test capacity is in order, to look at the adaptation of the LCI directive, I understand, of course, that you should not do so now? Then there is my second point. I do not agree with the Minister where he says that there is no additional pressure on the test capacity. I just know from experience and from my surroundings that once someone has been within a foot and a half of someone who has actually tested positive for COVID-19, they will be tested immediately, without any complaints. That's what they're gonna do. With that app, you get exactly the same thing. People are all gonna get tested. So there's going to be a loop on that test capacity. Then how is the Minister gonna take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u502	In my opinion, the first question about testing without complaints was also a question from other groups, including those of D66, namely: would you consider that at some point? My answer to that question is: yes, I will certainly consider it. First, on the basis of the results of the pilot set-up, and then, of course, we will have to ask ourselves whether the test capacity at the moment is sufficient to cope with that. What you could also do, as an intermediate step, is to set up a priority street for the BCO contacts and app contacts. You should treat them like a similar group. That's a lot of variants. The OMT advises on this, also this month, but I will always weigh that in relation to the total test capacity available as it is. Do I believe in testing without complaints? Yes, I certainly believe in that, but I also believe that the OMT and the GGD are right to always want to look from the point of view of public health and from the point of view of the fight against infectious diseases. That means that you keep looking at where the expected percentage of finding is highest. That's what it's all about, for example, care workers and people with complaints. Then he can also sit on the people who are without complaints for the time being but who have emerged as contact from the source and contact research or who get a notification from the app. It could be. The LCI Directive works in such a way that the OMT advises on it. The contact and consultation with the field is then sought. The LCI Directive is then a professional directive. So it is not the case that the department adopts the LCI directive, because that is what the professionals do. What we will do, of course, is to ensure that the direction on the test chain as a whole remains in order, or I have to say, will be fine, because there really is still a lot of profit to be made. In doing so, we will match the principles of the substantive directive with the test capacity available. In this way, we will see what is the most meaningful use of the available test capacity. For example, we did so in the spring when there was really insufficient test capacity and so we will do as the autumn follows. Then the pressure on the testing. Indeed, I am sure that for the people who come up from source and contact research, but also in the test set-up when we started testing without complaints, that app did give an upward pressure when testing. But that was in the situation that we also linked the action advice to that app: get tested, even if you don't have any complaints yet. That was then, in that test setup, the operational situation. Then that's going to coincide, and that's why I can't completely disassemble it with the moment when we couldn't just make an appointment by phone anymore, but also via the web portal. That's when you saw the number of tests going up. At that time, the impression was that I can only never make up for all the GGDs: there are a lot of people here on the test street who really don't have any complaints yet, but who are willing to cough for a while when you look at them frowning and ask "do you really have complaints?" So testing without complaints has indeed greatly increased demand. That is why we have been so out of step, is my firm conviction. But that's not a reproach, because I also understand that that's people's background. But of course you have to say somewhere: what is my test target group? The test target group all the way in the spring was initially, from April 6th, I believe, the group of care workers, also outside the hospital. That was a primary group, in addition to the vulnerable, which, of course, were already eligible. After that, carers and teachers joined us. For example, we have always engaged a group, always for testing the people without complaints. At some point, the OMT has advised: explore the added value of a number of groups of people without complaints. Then we started investigating that in a test setup. That has had quite a stimulating effect. For the sake of testing capacity, we really have to go back to: let those people test with complaints. That doesn't mean this is a decision for eternity. We look at its added value over and over again. Which group deserves extra attention? As far as I am concerned, testing without complaints could also be very promising if the test capacity is not the obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u503	Mrs. Gerkens, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u504	It was a very long story, but I take it from the Minister that he says: now the test capacity is not in order, but if it is, then it is certainly a possibility that we will also have people tested without complaints; we are going to do a number of tests with them and we have already done them. Then I have another question, which I had already asked in the debate. Sorry, Chairman, I see you looking frowning. The question is to add the following question, also because of the evaluation, when you make an appointment for testing: did you get a notification via the app? Did you take that into account in the round of questions? Now you are asked: do you have complaints and if so, which ones? You could say, did you get a call from the app? So I think we can measure the effectiveness of that app a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u505	To be honest, I have reservations as to whether that is a question that can be asked. That assumes that you then know from people that they have installed the app. All that had to be very anonymous and all that. We were going to be very strict on that and that does indeed mean that you are a bit out of control in terms of research. I see the need, but I don't think we can provide for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u506	I see Mrs Gerkens walking back. Minister, may I ask about the planning? I had written down six cubes, including the general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u507	Well, Mr. Chairman, how about I make you happy? We talked about the evaluation. Not very long, by the way, but very sure, I found myself. So I think we can put that aside. Then I have two blocks left, namely some general questions about the app............................................................................................................. But they are, Mr. Chairman. So I'll see how far I get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u508	I'm not saying anything. I give the floor to Mr Nicolaï.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u509	I have the feeling that it is all so abstract and that there is so little movement in the people who are about to be notified. If you get that notification as a student and you know you're gonna have to take an exam next week, you're gonna want to take that exam anyway. Then you're gonna take that test. Then you say you're coughing or this or that. That makes so much sense to me. That's one. Two. The Minister says: we may also have to go back to tests even if you haven't really had any complaints yet. But in his words, I heard that he knows that tests are already taking place without those complaints. I have asked whether the Minister is prepared to delay the entry into force of the law until there is sufficient testing capacity. What I'm very afraid of is that people who get a notification will get stuck, can't go anywhere with it and then throw away the whole app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u510	Well, those people who get a notification should get tested if they have any complaints. They had to anyway, so you don't have to wait to see if the test capacity has increased further. By the way, it increases by thousands a week. I believe this week with 13,500 compared to last week. It's getting really fast, but we're not gonna keep that app waiting any longer, because then I think we're gonna have a vaccine before we have that app operational. I don't think so. I think we should start using that app. If we agree that it is necessary to focus in the testing target group on who is the primary target group of testing and we do not want to create a huge agency for that purpose, then I find it very legitimate that we advise each other that people should be tested if they have complaints. Previously, it was after doctor's advice. If that is what we want now, we need a huge bureaucracy. A huge number of people need to be deployed to first investigate whether the complaints are bad enough to send them to the test street. We didn't do any of that. We said, "Let's get tested if you have any complaints." What complaints? Well, those corona-related complaints. I'm pretty sure we're not gonna start pretending it's perfectly normal for you to get tested without any complaints. We shouldn't do that. We have to take it seriously and say, "No, if you're using a test that wasn't meant for you because you don't have any complaints, don't do it." That test is intended for someone else, who does have complaints. I think that's a normal way of dealing with that. Then there's the action advice, the student. I just hope that student understands that it's serious. It's serious. There are currently an estimated 146.000 people contagious in the Netherlands. How do we know that? Because we have the tip of the iceberg on the basis of the positive test results that come from the test street, because we know the hospital admissions, there are almost 900 of them and because we now have 4,500 positive test results per day. Then you can calculate about the size of the base of people who are contagious, symptomatic, presymptomatic et cetera. It's 146,000. That's a hell of a lot. We really only get that under control if we do not take the actions of the GGD into account, but take them seriously. That does indeed mean that if you have been in close contact with someone who was infected, you must take the advice seriously to stay at home on the couch. Then you're not gonna take your exam. You'll catch up later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u511	I totally agree with the Minister, but in six out of ten cases you get a notification that's not right. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u512	I don't think that's right. I will go into this in more detail tomorrow, otherwise we will be juggling numbers, and that will help no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u513	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u514	I think we've been talking about testing for a while now. Then I go to some general questions about the app and then to the general questions about topics other than the app. The PVV assumes a relationship with the Telecommunications Act, but there is no such relationship. The Democracy Forum has asked how I am going to arrange for vulnerable people to have access to this app. Fortunately, in the Netherlands, a lot of elderly people, if you mean at least, also have a smartphone. In the Netherlands, there is a marked increase in their use than in the rest of the countries. I'm just gonna add some numbers. Of the approximately 13 million Dutch people aged between 18 and 75, 93% have smartphones. Of these smartphones, 90% of the iPhones are suitable or suitable and 97% of the Android phones are suitable. Most of the Dutch can therefore use the CoronaMelder on their iPhone or Android phone. Moreover, there is always the analogue execution of the source and contact research. You're not completely loose if you don't have a phone, I wanted to say, but my daughter and son certainly won't repeat that to me, because they do think life is over when you don't have a phone. Can that app also be used to enforce insulation? Mrs Faber made this suggestion. The answer to this is no, because that app doesn't know who you are or where you are. So the app is not suitable for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u515	I don't agree with the Minister, because your smartphone just has the contacts on it. It is said that the CoronaMelder is used to fight covid. But enforcement is part of that fight. Does the Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u516	Yes, enforcement is part of the fight, but this part is not maintained. The mandatory use is even explicitly prohibited. That app doesn't really know anything, not where you are, not who you are, not who you met. That app knows almost nothing and so it is definitely unsuitable to do anything enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u517	It's true that that app doesn't know anything at all, but the API does. I would like to say that if I had a smartphone and activated that CoronaMelder on my smartphone, the API would keep track of whether I've been in touch with people. Suppose I have a mandatory home isolation imposed and I wouldn't stick to it. Suppose I just go to the market or do I know where all of them are going to register the API contact moments. So they're definitely on my phone. And then I say in turn: the CoronaMelder is there to fight covid and enforcement is part of combat. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's At least we agree on that. So the API can certainly be used to check your home insulation. I had to introduce myself, but I thought you'd be here any minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u518	I figured...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u519	My question to the Minister is: can the Minister guarantee that he will not use the CoronaMelder API to check whether you are in home isolation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u520	I can't make it any clearer than this. That API doesn't know who you are either, where you are, who you met. All this API doesn't know that. The app, as well as the API, is totally unsuitable to do something enforcement. That's not what he's meant for. I would also add that we should not leave that suggestion hanging over the market. This whole debate is about trust, and then it is important not to leave any suggestions above the market that are wrong, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u521	Sorry, now you're gonna get a little mad at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u522	No, never.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u523	I don't think the Secretary of State understands anything about that API. I can't call it any different or bring it any clearer. The minister's talking about trust. This cabinet also calls it over itself. It comes with everything and it promises everything and it all goes differently. Again, in that API, the contacts are just registered. You put that in the answer yourself. I believe that when replying to Question 146 of the First Chamber, it says that the contact details are stored in the API. It could be an instrument for enforcement. You did not say that you are going to use it for enforcement, but in answering the questions to the First Chamber you replied that the contact details are stored in the API. That's why, if you remove the app from the smartphone, the contact details will be left behind for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u524	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u525	Or don't you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u526	Sure, I've got plenty of questions. That's not the problem, but it's just the question to what extent I'm allowed to ask them. Then I say again: then the Minister should not tell us here that there are no contact details within the API and that the phone cannot be used to check that you have had contacts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u527	No contact details of persons shall be registered. For enforcement, that thing apeert is unfit. This is going to be a repeat of moves. I can keep repeating it forever, but I don't think we're gonna get anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u528	This question has been asked several times, Mrs Faber. You can return to it in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u529	Then I shall continue with Mr Van Pareren's question, even more so with his very first question. That is: how does the app work in the five regions? Does he like it there? He's been working and he's actually been working for a long time. The working process of the GGD can therefore be carried out very well. At first there was a bit of concern at the GDD, but one can do that well. The practical test also shows that the GGDs and the helpdesks in the five regions have been able to prepare without problems. Since the start of the test, 562 users of the corona detector in the app have indicated that they have been tested positively to warn other people. Has there been any experience and what are the findings of students? There's been experience. Due to the privacy rules, we do not know who used the app and whether there were students who had gained experience with it. Let's assume it is. How often has the app been downloaded? Right now, 1.3 million times. How many people have removed the app again, Mr. Otten asks. We don't know that. We cannot see that. That is also a conscious choice, because we are not supposed to have all that kind of data from data minimisation. So we don't know that. We cannot see that at the moment. You might be able to sample that at some point, but we can't automatically see how many people have removed the app again. We can only see the download data.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u530	How many do we have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u531	1.3 million. Without any campaign or anything. So that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u532	We can hold the Irish model against it, as I mentioned in my contribution. I do not see many reasons why it would be very different in the Netherlands than in Ireland. That also confirms my own little empirical research over the past two days. People don't put the app on their phones, or they take the app off again, because it consumes a lot of energy. That's what I hear from a lot of people; they say the app eats energy. But let's say we apply these Irish relationships for a while. There the app has been downloaded 1.2 million times, but in 0.5 million cases the app has been removed again. So if the minister says that the Dutch app has been downloaded 1.3 million times, which number had already been reached about a month ago, so there is no huge growth in the app then it is reasonable to assume that by now 400.00 or 500.000 people will have removed the app again. I know a lot of people who deleted the app. It seems essential to me to know that for the purposes of this app.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u533	I don't know if your own little investigation is sufficiently representative of that. We can't see it automated. At some point, you might be able to examine it on a sample basis. I don't know about Ireland either. Mr Otten says that now, but I do not know if that is the case. I don't know how that's investigated there. Are we going to find out automatically there, or is an assessment made? I don't know. So I'm gonna leave the Irish data out of the picture. In the Netherlands, therefore, we cannot examine it automatically. I'm not familiar with that. I find 1.3 million downloads already, while the app is only operational in five regions, very high. We have spent zero communication campaign on it, and yet there are 1.3 million downloads. I find that incredibly much, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u534	I have a second question, now that the Minister is talking about the test regions. I saw that the app was tested in five regions, including the GGD IJsselland, containing the municipality of Staphorst, where yesterday the infamous three church services were singing with 600 men. Is there any kind of provisional result of these five regions? How are the user experiences? How many people have downloaded the app and how many have the app deleted again? A certain evaluation must have been carried out, because that has been going on for several months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u535	Sure, there are a number of results. I just mentioned that one, too. For example, about 562 notifications have been made. That's what we know. The work process is going well. That too is well known. The number of questions for the helpdesk is running well. The number of tests requested went a little too well. A number of them are also known. There are a number of things that are known. How many people took the app off their phone again is not known. If you ask who was in the church yesterday and made a report because he used the app and actually got infected, then I think you're happy now that I can't answer that question. Otherwise, we would not have fully met the privacy requirements. By the way, there would have been a fairly rapid incubation period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u536	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u537	I understand you're going to test in the region. That's what I'd do. But that has led to certain results, hasn't it? Surely that app doesn't make any sense if you say you don't know what results came from the pilots in those regions? For example, see an increase in the number of tests compared to the regions where those pilots were not kept. Then the story of just now, in which you said it doesn't lead at all to new tests, just doesn't it? That's what you're undermining, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u538	No, I also explained that this was at a stage when we started testing without complaints in the regions. In those regions, I stopped doing that, also for the people who used the app in the pilot version. We started it as a pilot to investigate not only the functioning of the app, but also for this target group to investigate what added value testing could have without complaints. That's how we started. A few weeks ago, I said that we would stop doing so because it changes the test capacity and because it is at the expense of testing people with complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u539	This was your third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u540	Well, the last one. But these are the so-called pretters, according to the Minister. Of course, that has a psychological effect. People see the report even though it is false in 60% of the cases and think: I say that I have complaints and let me have a quick test. That's what you're gonna get, isn't it? That makes sense, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u541	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u542	I just answered that once or three, four, five. I don't think that makes any sense at all. I see that it is indeed happening, but I do not think it is logical at all. On the contrary, I think that we should also be expected to convey the message that the GGD also conveys: beware that you do not use a test that is actually necessary for someone who does have complaints, because that is where it makes more sense. Of course we know it's happening. What we could do is to create a huge bureaucracy on the front to prevent it from happening. I'm not for that. If you see that the test capacity in the test street is not sufficient for everyone, then you have to choose. The best choice you can make from the point of view of infectious disease control is to have people with symptoms tested. I think that we should be expected not to give a great deal of understanding to people who fake a complaint and still go to the test streets, but to say that this test is intended for people with complaints. That is the message of the GGD and we can be expected to carry it with us. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get back to the other questions. Should a weekly notification with positive or negative reporting of the CoronaMelder be an option? Apple and Google are already offering the possibility of a monthly or weekly summary notification. The field test shows that this report can cause confusion, which can cause someone to think that they are getting a notification that they are infected, whereas it mainly shows how many people you have been in contact with who were not infected. It's kind of a weekly summary. I understand you can turn that off, too. We will also include this in the ongoing evaluation. Apple and Google come up with an additional functionality that would actually eliminate the need for the app. The VVD asks what guarantee the Minister has that it will not be used in the Netherlands. What can we do if that is the case? Apple and Google have indeed developed that additional functionality. It is actually intended for countries that have not developed a notification app themselves. Apple and Google offer the choice, including to countries, to turn it on or not. With the CoronaMelder there is an app in the Netherlands. In fact, we attach all kinds of conditions to that app, which are also legally defined. So we're not going to choose the functionality that Apple and Google offer. We're actually saying, no, thank you very much. This is then also enforceable and there is also regulation to monitor this: the GDPR. The GDPR shall monitor the use of data sharing. Then the campaign. That's what the Christian Union and a few other people were asking for. The Christian Union says that a number of factors are essential and asks us to include them in the campaign. This campaign will, of course, highlight the added value of the app. The introduction campaign is intended to bring the download of the CoronaMelder to the attention and to provide the action perspective that fits in with it. The CDA asks whether the public campaign is sufficiently visible to all target groups to use the app. For example, the general public campaign also focuses on young people. Through social media, through Spotify and online video, young people are addressed. In addition, there is a collaboration with important media that focuses on young people and is popular with young people. So we are very consciously communicating with target groups. In addition, there is contact with the Association of Colleges and the Association of Universities to bring the CoronaMelder to the attention of course, without pressure and compulsion of course. We have also looked closely at the working methods and the results of the countries around us. They also use large-scale mass media campaigns. One of the lessons that Mrs Prins asked about is that such a campaign also raises a lot of questions about its application. Of course, the GGD is a bit opposed to that. The GGD has asked us: please a separate helpdesk; let's not get all those people on the phone who have a question about this, because then we don't know from the front that we live from behind. So we need to have these questions answered separately through a helpdesk. It'll be open from 8:00 to 8:00. Another lesson is that it's in a number of foreign countries we've been looking at Germany again in particular.In the campaigns worked to work with various intrinsic motivations that people might have to download such an app. That is why we are launching different campaigns, also aimed at different target groups. As in Germany, we use partnerships to highlight the app. In Germany they had a fantastic partnership with the Bundesliga. We didn't do that. That would have been nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u543	Was this the cup of campaigns? Can I ask a question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u544	There was another question from the PvdA about what we learned from the donor campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u545	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u546	We have learned, among other things, that you must be aware of people who are not powerful in the language and that you must be aware of people with intellectual disabilities. In the design, of course, we have already taken very great account of people with disabilities. So the accessibility score has been really good, I guess. We work with Steffie to see if we can make these campaign materials sufficiently accessible. Several language versions of the campaign resources have been made. Work is done with all kinds of intermediary organisations, including Pharos. So we try to learn as much from that as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u547	I had also made a connection to Knowing is not yet done. This shows, even now with source contamination, where there are fireplaces, that some of the people are not reached by the campaigns. The Minister is very much on the campaign. My question is how we reach people you don't reach through campaigns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u548	That's a slightly broader communication question. There are a lot of people looking at these press conferences, but you always have to draw the conclusion that more than half of the Netherlands are not watching these press conferences. Now we have nothing to complain about ratings, so you don't hear me complaining, but you have to conclude from that that you have to do the communication in a different way. We see that a lot of health services in regions are very good at that. For example, they use key figures in communication with migrant communities. I think that a lot of GGDs are actually much better at this regional and local than they could be from The Hague at all. I know from a lot of mayors that they are working very intensively on target group communication. They actually do that through their usual communication networks. For example, municipalities are inclined to communicate at all. In addition, we also use this partnership approach for a reason. As a government, you just can't reach everyone. That is not within the scope of what a government can do. So you will always have to work very closely with other organizations if you want to communicate in the capillaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u549	Can I conclude from this that besides that national campaign, local activities take place, at people's meetings, at elderly people being helped? Is that part of the approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u550	Yeah, including through libraries, for example. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u551	Are they gonna get extra money? That was a question from me, because the libraries are having a hard time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u552	You're asking if libraries get extra money. You're asking me about that, at least for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u553	I think I'm going to take the floor now, for the first time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u554	I understand that Mrs Nooren would like them to have extra money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u555	Now we go to Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u556	I would like to thank the Minister very much for his focus on partnerships. If we look at how this second wave came about and spread out, then at least young people play a key role. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what partnerships he has in order to reach the target group of young people, with all its diversity, and to motivate them, as difficult as possible. So I understand your efforts, but I think the partnerships are the most powerful method. I'd appreciate it if you could explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u557	There are contacts with the Association of Colleges and the Association of Universities. That helps, I think, great to bring that CoronaMelder to the attention of the public. In addition, the public campaign also targets young people through a variety of youth platforms. I have just asked why I see that so little come by myself, but that is because I am no longer in the target group, I have been told. I thought that was an eye-opener. We are trying to reach young people as best we can, through all kinds of campaigns and indeed through partnerships. How do we process the ethical test in the communication campaign? That was a question from D66. Solidarity and voluntaryity were important values that emerged from that ethical test. Both values we try to use in our campaign. The campaign focuses on the motivation to protect people in your environment and not to infect others unconsciously. For volunteering there is always attention in communication and throughout the communication campaign. 50PLUS asks if it is sufficient for effectiveness if 20% of people use the app. Look, the University of Oxford study includes an even lower percentage. They actually say: from a percent or 10 it could already be of added value. I think you'll have to conclude that it's of low added value. The higher the adoption rate, the better it's natural. That is also why we are intensively communicating to ensure that the adoption rate goes up. I do not have a percentage objective or something that I would like to achieve, but I am also looking at Germany with an oblique eye. In the meantime, we have managed to get above 20%. We should be able to do that, given that this is often the country with which we are most easily compared, including in terms of privacy. Mr Otten had the question of how much that campaign actually costs. That campaign costs 2.7 million and the development of the app costs 5 million. I think I've had the questions broadly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u558	Mr Nicolaï still lacks a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u559	At the very beginning of the Minister's speech I was talking about my six points. Then the Minister said that they will be discussed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u560	Yeah, but that actually happened. For example, whether or not I recognise that notification leads to an opinion, without the follow-up of measures having an impact on the person concerned. I think we just talked about that. We talked about the numbers. I will come back to that tomorrow, I indicated. I think I have always had your questions in the course of the cubes, but you seem to think differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u561	I had asked, in the context of volunteering and responsibility and so that people can really choose, if the Minister is willing to mention a number of facts in the CoronaMelder itself, i.e. on the screens. That has to do with the effectiveness, with the usefulness. It has to do with the fact that once again it is explicitly said that you are not obliged and that no one can oblige you, but also that if you get an opinion, that is an advice. I didn't hear an obligation, but I did hear the Minister speak of the word "instruction." That's for a lawyer if I'm already close to an obligation. On the points I have listed, I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to lead the people who are going to install the app to receive that information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u562	With nothing we do, we have been as transparent as with this app when it comes to the whole development and all research reports. If the assumption behind this question is that one may not be entirely open about what one can expect from this app and so on, then I can really contradict that. Everything is done in perfect transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u563	That everything is done in perfect transparency is fine with me, but I simply asked for a very factual commitment from the Minister. We talked about the reliability being 73%. I'd like to know if I'm a student and I'm considering downloading that app. Because if I download that app, I'm gonna get a notification and I can't take my exam because I have to listen to the minister. I would also like to know a little bit more about the six out of ten cases, but you will deal with them tomorrow. I also want to know that I am totally voluntary and that no one can oblige me. That's just what the law says, so from the point of view of good governance you should mention that in the program that goes through when installing. And then I go further: this also includes the fact that the advice that is ultimately given in the notification is an advice, not an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u564	However, just a few moments ago, we discussed the opinion in great detail. I believe that this is a tricky route to take by doing so in relation to that behavioral advice or, if you like, that instruction. If we want to break this whole chain of infections together, we have to take that advice very seriously. In the end, there is still the possibility of enforcing compliance with an opinion. If the GGD considers that quarantine is necessary and that someone clearly doesn't adhere to it, that obviously doesn't play around that app at all, because that's not where the GGD can see it at all, but that's more in the regular source and contact research......................................................................................................................................................................... You know that. That already exists on the basis of the Wpg. But I wouldn't want us to put the GGD's treatment recommendations into perspective: it's just advice, you know, see if you stick to it or not. No, it's advice, so you have to stick to it. That's how we need to talk about it. Furthermore, Coronamelder.nl really contains everything your heart desires about questions and answers about the app, so I think we are extremely transparent in that. In the app itself there is also a Q&A series of everything you always wanted to know about that app. So I really believe that we can hardly be surpassed by transparency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u565	Mr. Nicolaï, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u566	Yeah, finally. It's just not true what the minister says; I'm sorry I have to put it that way. But there's nothing in www.coronamelder.nl about that information you're talking about and it's not in the app either. I'm not going to put the advice into perspective. It's either an advice or it's not advice. If you, as a government, say 'we call it an opinion, but it is not really an advice', then we are going to discuss it, and then you can put it in that app when we figure out what it is, that it is not an advice but an instruction. What matters to me is that someone who's going to install that app should be aware of what they're getting into. That's a very simple question, isn't it? So he needs to know how reliable that app is. There's just numbers on that. Your own ministry has had it investigated. He needs to know, if he gets a notification, what it means and if he's obliged to follow it. Those are just simple things that you as a government from the point of view of good governance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u567	Mr. Nicolaï, I'm gonna stop you right there. You now repeat your question for the third time. I ask the Minister to give his answer again, and you will have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u568	I don't know if we're gonna get any closer. Because I really do have the impression that you are making sense and serious of the advice of the GGD when you say: you have to stress that it is just an advice, you know, because if you have to take an exam tomorrow, it is really just an advice. In doing so, you are indeed relativizing the advice of the GGD. I think it is right that we should say that this advice is not a legal obligation, but that it is an advice to be followed. And why? Because that's what it takes to break the entire chain of infectious diseases. Is that clear to everyone? Well, I think this is clear to everyone. That's what we say everywhere. There's another advice: you have to stay home if you have any complaints. That is a rather urgent advice, which we give regularly. Also the GGD does not stop to underline that you should stay at home if you get complaints. We do not say that all the time: it's just advice, you know; look what you're doing. No, the advice is stay home when you get complaints. Are we gonna put a cop in front of every door? No, of course not. That's not how our society works. Are we going to take that advice into account? No, not at all, because you have to stay home when you have complaints. You need to get tested if you have any complaints. That too is an urgent opinion and not a legal duty. We're gonna have to let you do that. You need to keep a foot and a half away. That is, of course, a requirement which must be maintained at the moment and which will soon be incorporated into the law. You have to wear a mask. This is an urgent opinion and not a legal obligation. Does that mean you're gonna have to pass up on that? No, of course not. Because there is an urgent opinion. In short, I think people understand very well what an urgent advice is. I'm actually not that worried about that at all. I think people are also very well informed about what to expect from the app. I believe that public communication is extremely clear in this regard. I wouldn't know what else to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u569	I'll take you to Mrs Faber's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u570	I have asked three questions, and I have not yet received an answer to them. It may have escaped the Minister's attention, so I'll help him out a little bit. I had a question about the GP. The GP is kept out of the door by the GGD. This would be done under the guise of "maximum limitation of processing of personal data." But that is of course a bit of bullshit, because if you get treatment in the hospital, the general practitioner will also be informed. Why is the general practitioner excluded from the procedure at the GGD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u571	"Outside game set" I don't quite understand. If you mean to ask if the GP is informed of any test results, it is not. The other way around, it is, because a general practitioner has a notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u572	It's a strange thing to do. The GP is precisely the spider in the web, who is always informed about the doing and leaving of a patient. So that's really weird. The question again: does the Minister not find it strange that the general practitioner is not informed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u573	I need to be more specific about that. There is a legal requirement, namely the other way around. The GGD should have an overview of infectious diseases listed on the A list. If an infection is detected anywhere, the GP should inform the GP. The point is, of course, that the CoronaMelder does not record any data that can be shared with third parties. The app isn't meant for that, because if it did, we wouldn't meet all our privacy requirements anymore. Then you probably wouldn't be excited about the app at all. So this is just the consequence of privacy by design. Therefore, no data are shared with general practitioners from the CoronaMelder by the GGD. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u574	Your second question, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u575	Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, That's not my question at all. Suppose I got a call on the Corona Melder. I'll get in touch with the G.D.D. and I'll be tested. If I were positive, the GP wouldn't be involved in the trial. That's my question. Whether the CoronaMelder will send anything to the GP has nothing to do with it. No, the point is that an employee of the GGD doesn't inform the GP. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u576	But if you did, wouldn't that break anonymity? Then we will no longer meet the requirements that had just been imposed on the app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u577	Mrs Faber, I am afraid you will have to do it with this answer. You have two more questions, I understand, but you have already spoken four times in this interruption. So we need to look each other in the eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u578	I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u579	Can you continue with your next question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u580	Yeah, that's the problem. I have three questions that I haven't gotten an answer to. Of course, I can never do that in two interruptions. I'd like to speed things up, but I think the Minister's answer is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u581	You can then return to that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u582	All right, fine. That's a good suggestion. Okay, I'll be on the Federation Gateway Service. I've been asking questions about that. Member States' back-end servers should be connected to them. I had asked when the Dutch server will be connected to it, what is done with the data and how abuse is prevented.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u583	I know that this European solution is currently being tested. As soon as it is ready, the Netherlands will also be happy to participate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u584	Faber, third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u585	How is it ensured that it is not abused? Because I find it very special that a full Federation Gateway Service is being rigged for a temporary law. I also spoke about the President of the European Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, who says that she wants more European competence in the area of health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u586	That just doesn't relate to this. Look, this was the question from the 8th grade from Landgraaf, and I answered it as such. If we're just over the border with the whole class, is he still doing it? Then he will, but at the moment only for the people from the Netherlands who use the Dutch app. So there is no interoperability with the other apps that exist in Europe and are actually similar in nature. This has been a reason for the European Commission to launch an initiative to find a solution to this problem. That is being achieved at the moment, and we will be happy to support it, because we also want to make that app interoperable across borders. That's one. Then two. The question is whether you should want Europe to play a more prominent role in health policy. I think we all care about autonomous decisions. I think we can agree on that point. In fact, it has always been the case that we did not want to transfer powers in relation to the establishment of our healthcare system to Europe. I do not think that much has changed at that point. I do think that, when it comes to the question of whether you are prepared for such a pandemic that rages around the world, we should come to the conclusion that we would be much better able to do so if we worked together a little more than Europe. The point, of course, is that you never fully know what pandemic to prepare for. But if I just think back to those first months of this year, and think about how we should head towards China with the hat to provide our own protective equipment, then I do not want to go back there. I believe that Europe should be self-sufficient in this respect. I also see, for example, that we depend on India and China for a lot of raw materials for our medicines. I would like us to be more autarkischer as Europe on that point. I actually think that we really need to engage in this conversation with all the Member States in Europe. As the Netherlands, you can never have that whole pharmaceutical industry on your own soil, or force that industry to its knees when you want something. That's why we loved working together on the vaccine...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u587	Can you finish the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u588	Actually, I can talk about this a whole night. On the vaccine strategy, on the contrary, we were very keen to seek cooperation with 27 Member States. We started that ourselves, with France, Germany and Italy, but we very much wanted to cooperate with the 27 Member States, because a problem is sometimes bigger than you can solve alone as a Member State. This cooperation within Europe is incredibly important, even towards the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u589	I thank the Minister for his comprehensive answer, but I have not yet received an answer to my question as to whether it is special that the Federation Gateway Service should be rigged for a temporary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u590	No, that's not special, because you want that app to work across the border, too. That's what the kids in the eighth grade think, and that's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u591	That was your third question, Ms. Faber? This was him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u592	Yeah, now two questions have been dealt with that I hadn't had an answer to. And then there's one left. That's the last one, and then I'm gonna sit down real soon when I get a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u593	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u594	I also asked how reliable that PCR test is. Mr. Van Dissel himself indicates that the PCR test only indicates that a piece of genetic material has been found from the supposed virus, but that there doesn't have to be any intact virus, let alone that it can make you sick and let alone that you are contagious to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u595	That's a new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u596	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u597	It depends on when you take that PCR. By the way, this is a little bit unrelated to the app bill. The PCR test is also seen internationally as the gold standard when it comes to testing. There is nothing as reliable as a PCR test, only the degree of infectiousness that you can derive from it, of course, depends on the time compared to the incubation period and the infectious period at which you take that test. So is it possible that, for example, if you take a PCR test at a rather late stage of infection, you get a positive test result, when someone just isn't contagious anymore? Yeah, that's conceivable. But just because we say "you have to test if you have any complaints," you can really lean on the PCR's outcome. And I wouldn't know any other test that could get anywhere near the reliability of a PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u598	You're gonna have to do it with that. Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u599	Mr. Chairman. I also had a question. It is a rather complicated question, perhaps that is why the Minister has not gotten to it. And if he wishes to answer him in writing, he may, but I would be happy to do so by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. It was a vulnerability stated in the ROS report, namely the vulnerability that it is possible to steal from you tokens, codes. So it's possible in theory, but also in practice, that I'm gonna be at the test street tomorrow, stealing some codes, coming back here and implementing these codes here with people in the phones, making these people think they're infected. Then tomorrow we'll have the entire First Chamber quarantined for ten days. Well, that vulnerability has been indicated by ROS. There is by Google quite a bit of a way how shall I put it... reluctantly responded to it. I think it is a problem that needs to be solved. My question to the Minister is: what is he going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u600	Now, thinking aloud, but I think it is wise to come back to that at the second term, I would say: you must always want to arm yourself against improper use. But if there is a clear need for a violation of the law, then it is very difficult to arm yourself against it. So if you get illegal codes that you then enter... Well, that's just not allowed, so it's already forbidden. So I wouldn't know how else to ban it or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u601	No, that's not my question either. By definition, hacking is something that is covered by the Computer Act, so that is not allowed; there is already legislation for that. But we are, of course, talking about vulnerabilities in an app that we really don't want to have. And since it's been mentioned in the report of Radically Open Security, you'd think the minister already has that in his sights, and I'd think the minister is already working on it somehow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u602	I'm going to promise you I'll get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u603	I was very pleased to hear you say something that I unfortunately could not mention in my limited contribution. But you mentioned it, so I'd like to go into that. You said, "I'd like to"; "I'd like to"; "I'd like to." That was about making protective equipment here in the Netherlands, making generic other medicines in the Netherlands. In other words, being less dependent, in pandemics, in crisis situations, on situations we don't control. What are you gonna do to turn that "want to" into "doing it"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u604	Take a look at that LAMP test, which we commissioned ourselves; we have just commissioned to develop a test that works with reagents that are made here on Dutch soil. If you look at the mouth caps, for example... Ooh, almost done! It's that the chairman didn't signal your cough, but otherwise... A small downside, but you can still earn it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u605	A downside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u606	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u607	When I look at the mouth caps, for example, we have of course manufacture on Dutch soil. When I look at the ventilation equipment, of course we now have manufacture on Dutch soil. In short, we have taken steps on that point. I responded to a question from Mrs Faber, who was about European cooperation in the field of public health: should you really want to do so, because if you take steps, do you not lose some of your autonomy? That's how I understood her question. That has indeed been the institution of all parties in the Netherlands for quite a long time. Moreover, all Member States, and this is why there is so little European cooperation in public health, except in the field of the approval of medicines, with the EEA. And I honestly think that I would still like to talk about how the healthcare system is set up in the Netherlands, but I have also learned that, if you really want to be resistant to a pandemic, you should not advocate less European cooperation, but should actually advocate more European cooperation, just to be self-sufficient. It is precisely in order to be less dependent in a highly globalised world that we will need to join European forces more closely and, on the contrary, to work together more in order to at least depend on like-minded countries in the European Union in all those areas where you are so dependent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u608	Very briefly. I am very pleased to hear that you, as a Dutch minister, think this is the case for the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u609	Sure. Mr. Chairman. I still have a number of questions, which I am going to try to do a little bit shorter than the questions that led me to be very tempted to make a little longer. I'm going to recapture myself, I'd like to say in your direction. It's the last block, with more general questions that aren't about the app at all, but which are still too interesting to leave. So I'm gonna stop by that one. What are the number comparisons between the first and second wave? Is it a second wave, or are we just testing a lot more, asks Forum for Democracy. I think it's too early to make that real figure equation. As a general difference, I think you can say that we now know more and have a much better view of how the virus is spreading. In the first wave, the level of infection and the extent of spread were actually much more advanced... Oh, Mrs. Jorritsma, mouth cover! I'm too much of a schoolmaster to just leave that unnamed. But it's just a piece of advice. For Mr Nicolaï it is 'only an opinion', but I would say that it is an opinion that you have to abide by. Well, back to the second wave. If you compare the numbers, I think you can see some differences. We have a better view of where the virus is and how it's spreading. So we have been able to follow the run-up to that second wave much better. That's a big difference. I think you can see some difference in hospital admissions and where the infection is at the moment. We see strongly that it started with the younger target group, between 20 and 29, and in particular between 20 and 24. So these are differences. At the same time, I would like to say about the agreements that exponentiality can be as strong and as disruptive as the first wave. That is why we pulled the reins last week, not to let it come to this when it came to March. We're early now. We've got better eyesight now. This calls for more intensive and intense measures to be taken to ensure that we can break that second wave in time before it actually overloads care. Then there's the numbers of the vacationers. When the second wave increased, if you'd like to call it that, we did indeed see people who had a travel history during the twilight. The positive infections then asked if someone had been abroad for the past two weeks. At some point, two weeks ago, I think, we saw that 24% of positive infections had been abroad. That's a hell of a number. If you look back to March, that was the introduction then, too. Those were the winter athletes who were going to carnivals in Brabant. That came together back there. Now you see especially returning holidaymakers who haven't quite followed the 1.5 meters. At least you can't. Then the ventilation: how is the app going to help vulnerable groups be helped by good ventilation? The app's not gonna help with that. What is important, by the way, is good ventilation. This is explicitly mentioned in the RIVM directives. Are 2,741 beds available? No, the scale plan provides for a total of 1,700 beds. 1,350 beds have become available since 1 October. On 1 January, another 350 extra beds will be added. But that's flexible scaling. So it's not like there's empty beds and unemployed nurses standing next to them. It is flexible to scale. That's why we need to break that second wave. Because once you have to scale up to that capacity, it can only be that regular care suffers greatly. That too is not without collateral damage. So we need to break that second wave as fast as we can. It has also been asked whether, with the experience so far, I am considering refreshing the OMT and adding economists. Well no, the OMT advises us on the state of epidemiology and on what is most sensible about interventions, given the state of epidemiology. We do not have much use for economists, because they have not really eaten that much cheese. What we need, above all, is medical expertise. It is sometimes mistakenly assumed that a straw looks very much at reality, but it is not. All medical expertise is represented in the OMT. I think that the legislator at the time, that our predecessors did quite well. There is an Outbreak Management Team that advises on what to do, given the state of the economy. This is then discussed in an administrative co-ordination consultation. On the basis of both opinions, the cabinet then takes the decision. The view of economists is of course important and also that of all other disciplines, but it has to weigh the cabinet in taking the final decision. We should not mix this political balance with the advice that doctors should be able to give from their discipline. Again, that is a very broad club with all the disciplines that will then meet. It is therefore a matter of advice to be given from medical discipline. We should not mix that with what an economist might think of that. By the way, I dare say that the importance of the economy and the importance of keeping that virus under control do not bite each other. As far as I am concerned, that is really one and the same interest. It's the best thing for the economy if we keep the virus under control as best we can. There's no contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u610	How far along are you, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u611	I think I have one more to do and that is the question of the CDA whether this approach to achieving such an app should become the standard. Designing and developing according to the most stringent privacy and safety requirements is actually already the standard approach, but with open source and involving critics in a construction team to achieve the best possible product, is new. So I promised the House of Representatives to evaluate this approach with the Secretary of State for the Interior and to see if this could actually be raised to the standard. Mr President, this brings me with some selection, until the end of the first-term response, with a number of promises for the second-term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u612	No, there's another question. I had said at one point that there are opportunities to investigate test capacity outside Europe, such as Abu Dhabi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u613	Yes. Believe it or not, but I had a phone call about that an hour ago, but I was still talking here, so that didn't happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u614	My question was whether that investigation had already been completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u615	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u616	Not yet. When do you expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u617	I'm gonna say something about it in a few sentences. Yes, I actually want to seize all the possibilities for testing capacity, even where logistics is a bit more challenging, like there is a huge test plant in Munich that we use. That's eight hours' drive, too, and this is, I think, six hours' flight. So that's not easy, but it's possible. The concern is, of course, whether data protection can be guaranteed. I am not against cooperation with a laboratory in the United Arab Emirates in advance, but on condition that data protection is adequately covered. Well, that's not gonna happen on its own. So I asked the company that would like to work together to give me the guarantees to regulate data protection just as we could within Europe. There are intensive discussions on this subject and discussions are still ongoing with this laboratory. So I'll call that in as soon as I get out of there with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u618	And then you also tell us how these guarantees have been realized?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u619	Yes, of course, because there are concerns about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u620	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u621	And those concerns are already coming into the G.D.D. So we can only work with that if I can also explain convincingly to myself and the people who are getting tested...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u622	And to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u623	and for example to the Upper House or to the Lower House, to anyone who would like to know how that data protection is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u624	Thank you, Mrs Baay. Thank you, Minister. Then this brings us to the end of the first term. The debate will continue tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-05-eerstekamer-3.u625	I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 6 October 2020 at 9 a.m.
