ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Smals, on behalf of the VVD, for his question to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about mbo's being lured away by employers for the purpose of obtaining their diploma. Mr Smals on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason for these questions is, of course, the fantastic message in the AD that MBOs are getting more and more appreciation. I had that feeling before, but it is now actually evident from Jobdigger's analysis. I think I speak for almost everyone when I say that we are very happy about that. And yet there is still a concern that the VVD has already expressed. In 2018 there was already a Chamber statement following a motion by Mr Wiersma, who insisted on getting as many students as possible a diploma. In order to strengthen that earlier motion and to ask for progress, there has recently been an encouraging motion, so I call it 'green picking', adopted by Mr Kuik and myself. We've been two years. Apparently, the problem has not been solved and is even growing. So, what has the Minister done so far? What concrete measures have already been taken? Or should we wait until April before something finally happens to deal with the problem? If we have to wait until April, I am worried if we will be in time to find a good solution for this growing group who will drop out of school without a diploma for the coming school year. In short, what has the Minister done so far? When will there be concrete measures? Will they be on time for next year? Or should we wait another year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is very nice that Mr Smalls, through this Question Time, once again calls attention to the phenomenon we call 'green picking'. It is very nice to see that these MBOs are so appreciated in society, even so much so that they are taken out of school for obtaining their diploma, because employers are urgently waiting for them. At the same time, it is also very undesirable for young people to leave school without obtaining a diploma. I also saw employers on television this weekend who are concerned about the basic skills of future employees. These basic skills are also included in the MBO. That's what math is all about. This is also about language and citizenship. I would urge the same employers not to take those young MBOs out of school prematurely and to ensure that they can complete their training. Because that also makes them better employees for the future. We are busy discussing what we can actually do to tackle this phenomenon. We do that along a number of lines. First of all, we need to know what the real issue is about school drop-out, about real vs'ers, and about green picking. We are discussing with the schools and the RMCs, the coordinators of the municipalities in the regions, how to distinguish between vs'ers on the one hand and green picking on the other. The agreement is that the RMC will contact SBB about the realisation of a learning job at the workplace. Where a young person is taken from school and goes to work, you can also provide a learning place so that he can finish his school at that workplace. The school is therefore looking for possibilities to make flexible influx possible and to deliver customization. At present, we have, with the exception of one hair, skinned a declaration of intent with employers, in which they commit themselves to transforming that workplace into a learning job wherever possible. With all partners, we are also committed to improving communication to the grassroots. For example, we have made agreements with the JOB to warn young people that if they have had study funding and leave school prematurely, they have to repay their loan and they have a higher debt requirement. So we're working on all fronts. As requested, I will give you my statement of intent before 1 April. Of course, before then, we have been working very hard to take concrete steps in reality, but with you I believe that this is an undesirable phenomenon. Just make sure young people can get their degrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	I thank the Minister for her answers. It's nice that we share in the joy of the fact that MBOs are so well appreciated, much more than in the past. But I am left with the feeling that we must not forget that these are young people who are at the beginning of their careers, who are being lured out of school with a beautiful promise and then after a few years, if they want to take a new step, they will run away from graduation. You agree with that, and that is why I am pressing so hard on measures that we need to take now. That is why I ask you once again whether I can assume that we are taking measures to encourage companies that do greening, i.e. companies that put the interests of the student above the interests of the student, to stop doing so. It is also important to ensure that these measures are taken in good time so that pupils who start next school year are prevented from being tempted to quit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	Of course, prevention is always better than cure, but, as I have just explained to you, we are along all the lines we are working on to make sure that employers are also aware of the importance of these young people getting their degree and to ensure that the RMCs can distinguish between real outages and green picking, that schools ensure that there is flexible inflow and tailor-made work and that the SBB actively takes into account the possibilities of making that workplace a learning job. So with all the parties involved, we are working hard to tackle this problem, but I agree with you that it starts with employers who have to demonstrate socially responsible behaviour here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Smalls. Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you. In any case, I am very pleased with the words of the VVD that it is necessary to ensure that large companies do not only pursue their own interests because otherwise you will all be in trouble. Well, I'll count that as a win. Concrete measures were called for. Now, together with industry, we have a system of practical learning. This ensures that a lot of MBOs can learn a profession at a company in practice. That's a nice arrangement. But we can say very simply: as good friends, but if you pick people from the MBO without having a degree, then we're not going to subsidise you for those other people you want to train and we're only going to train people at companies that deal with young people in a decent way? Mr. Smalls said it as well, these are people who are the first to be thrown back into the streets when employment is falling. Is the Minister prepared to see if we can also use this system of practical learning, this subsidy scheme, to counter this undesirable phenomenon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	The problem is that the companies in which these young people end up are often not a learning-work company or do not have that learning-workplace and therefore do not receive that subsidy. So I don't think this is exactly the same thing. You know me, I believe in the root rather than in the stick and I am also working on the carrots for a while before I start thinking about the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Well, then you'll have to think about that, Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	Yeah, I'll come back with a stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	The mbo is hot and that's nice, because we need professionals, but it's not okay that companies pick young people out of school. We have also tabled a motion on this, so the Minister is working on it. But I would like to know whether we have an idea of which sectors and which companies these young people are taking away from school. As soon as we know, we can address them as well. Then we can also see, for example, whether there is a bbl-work-learning pathway missing and whether we should use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	Rightful question from Mrs Kuik. Yes, we are currently trying to see if there are specific sectors where this is going. For example, I heard a little debate on the radio last night specifically about the ICT sector. It is probably also a question of sectors facing shortages. But through the information we get from the RMC regions, we also get an insight into which training courses and which companies are involved. This also means, and we are already working on this in the declaration of intent, that we are not only addressing business through the national domes, but also very specifically through these sectors. So I'm going to ask you to sign it, because I want your active commitment to counter this with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	Of course, it is also impossible to sell that companies take students away too early from the institutions, while on the other hand there are also large groups, such as young people who have done practical education, who find it difficult to get a job. Does the Minister therefore see an opportunity to emphasise to them in her talks with employers that there is a very large group of young people who would like to have a job and who may need some extra guidance, but who can also work very well in a number of sectors?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Mrs Westerveld asks me a fair question: ask the business community not only for that group that you can use very easily, successfully and even without graduating, but also for those young people who are just a little more distant from the labour market and who also need a job. Together with Mr Slob, we are also having these talks, because you are absolutely right. There is a group of young people who can very well get a place on the labour market if we all have a little more eye for those young people who are just a little more distant and sometimes need a little more guidance. In practical education, for example, we also have pathways in which these young people are simply guided to the labour market for a little longer. I do not see Mr Kwint for a moment, but he has, of course, made a very good proposal on this point to ensure that we continue to accompany MBO-2 people in the labour market. I'm also looking to see if we can't expand that group a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you.
