ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u1	The subject is now the examination of the legislative proposal 35283, Amendment of the Electricity Act 1998 and Gas Act (implementation amendment of the Gas Directive and a number of regulations in the field of electricity and gas). I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you should read the text yourself, and then put it on your right side of the table next to the speaker's seat. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. Last year's Climate Agreement states that all Dutch houses must be off the gas by 2050. That's seven million homes in 30 years time, 233,000 a year. These plans are certainly delusional to link the built environment of natural gas, cost taxpayers billions and serve no useful purpose. The ban on natural gas, which has been introduced in the meantime for new housing, is leading to even higher construction costs in the already tense housing market. The first test balloons of natural gas-free neighborhoods that this cabinet gave up for about EUR 150 million appear to be one big failure, according to the Court of Auditors two weeks ago. The Social and Cultural Planning Bureau previously recalled a problem of identity for the ban on natural gas. There's a lot of mistrust and rightly so. Many citizens really don't feel the need to pay for a ban on gas that really doesn't exist anywhere in the world like in the Netherlands. In fact, just across the border in Germany, subsidies are being granted to switch to natural gas. Natural gas is green there. The Forum for Democracy brings common sense back into this discussion. This unfeasible and priceless policy must stop. Having said that, I come to the present amendments to the Gas Act. There are three issues of attention, the Brexit, the wiggle current and the hidden extra costs. The first point is the Brexit. Part of the legislative proposal is the regulation of interconnections from and to third countries from the European Union. Between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom lies a large gas pipeline, the Bacton Balgzand Line, the BBL. Until the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, a sensible choice of them, delivery through this BBL was one within the internal market. Now it becomes or is a delivery to a third country. We read in the legislative proposal and in the explanatory statement that there may be a need for public negotiations on the application of EU regulations to gas supplies through this BBL. I have a number of questions for the Minister. What's the deal with this? Can the Minister give the current status of these negotiations? Is this being discussed and why? Why not? Who's negotiating, anyway? Is that the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, or is a team from the European Union negotiating our gas pipeline with the United Kingdom? I'd like an explanation. Then the second point, the wobble current. On November 4, 2006, even my birthday, a huge poweroutage hit Western Europe. The cause was to shut down two German high-voltage lines over the river Eems because a large cruise ship had to sail there. Parts of Germany, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Spain, Austria and Italy were out of electricity for up to two hours. The panic was big back then. A regulation in this legislation aims almost fourteen years later to save us this kind of electricity crises, as at the time, to prepare ourselves for them, to prevent them and to control them. This must be done by improving bilateral and regional cooperation between Member States. It is the belief of the Forum for Democracy that such electricity crises increase as an increasing proportion of our energy supply and generation is made dependent on the weather, wind turbines and solar panels, so they only generate electricity when the sun shines and it blows. When the sun shines and it blows hard, these energy supplies create a huge peak load on the power grid, while if it doesn't blow and the sun doesn't shine, there's a huge amount of cookery to take place. That is a very inefficient way of energy supply. My question to the Minister, therefore, in view of the legislative proposal, is: does the Minister agree with us that the risk of electricity crises will increase if we become increasingly dependent on the sun and wind for our energy supply? If so, isn't that the real reason for this part of the legislative amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u4	I have a question for Mr Van der Linden. You are quite a fan of wind turbines and wind energy, and I do not think your party is in favour of it. However, the recently concluded agreement with CDA and VVD in Brabant provides for 50% renewable energy by 2030, while the national target in 2030 is only 25%. So you want twice as much renewable energy as national policy. You are also introducing more stringent nitrogen measures for farmers in Brabant, namely in 2024, compared to the national ones only in 2025. How is that compatible with this story? I ask Mr Van der Linden through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u5	Look, that we are a strong opponent of wind turbines and solar panels may indeed be clear. We are, however, strongly in favour of involving residents, wherever they are, in this kind of decision-making. I have also read and noted that the involvement of the inhabitants at the lowest levels in the province of North Brabant is receiving a tremendous boost. I also think that most of those people are not jumping over wind turbines. We are a democratic party; we support what the majority of its inhabitants think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u6	Yes, Mr Van der Linden is probably referring to the pacifier of a referendum that is not entirely constitutionally possible, but what the other parties have offered. Or do I misunderstand that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u7	Yes, you misunderstand. Look, a referendum can be totally constitutionally regulated, but if you just make political agreements with other parties that the result is respected, it is de facto binding and you don't have to change the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u8	Mr Otten, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u9	Okay, when is that referendum, Mr President, to ask Mr Van der Linden through you? Because the inhabitants of Brabant will be very curious about that. Then they can stop this 50% renewable energy as soon as possible, if it is up to you, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u10	Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u11	It stretches a little too far for me to make statements about when a referendum would be held in Brabant. I don't know. We're talking about the Gas Act here. I've given our party's vision on that. They may be known to you, and you are free to approach Brabant to ask how they're going to organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u12	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u13	Yes. The point of the wiggle current I made. Isn't that the real reason for this part of the law amendment? Mr. Chairman. Then the third point: the hidden extra costs. That is the part that we are most opposed to in this legislative proposal. This law makes it possible for network operators to discount costs in network charges related to European cooperation. In the explanatory statement, we read what this cooperation means specifically here. The European Commission, in this case Frans Timmermans, wants a fair transition. This means additional financial support for coal and carbon-intensive regions in the European Union, a kind of climate solidarity. And who gets to pay for that? The Dutch taxpayer has to pay against his will for the de-gas, as I indicated in my intro, while natural gas and fairly clean and efficient form of energy generation. If this bill is to be implemented, the taxpayer will have to pay a premium, hidden through the network operator's costs, in order to compensate Eastern European brown and coal regions for their energy transition. Maybe that transition is for them to natural gas. That is why I would like to hear from the Minister the following. Could it be that, under this law and this article, the Netherlands, through EU aid to coal and carbon-intensive regions, will soon contribute via grid tariffs to connecting these regions to natural gas elsewhere in Europe? It would be crazy if we were to get rid of gas ourselves here in the Netherlands, and also to pay for gas through our network tariffs. Mr. Chairman. I'll finish my first term. Forum for Democracy has been saying since 2018 that 1,000 billion in energy transition costs for up to 0.00007°C less global warming is unfeasible and priceless policies. That policy must stop as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u15	Mr. Van der Linden says the climate agreement is a delusion. Well, I have to say, my heart jumped up a little when I heard that and I thought: then we're going to come to something with the Forum. But to my great regret, I read in the Brabant administration agreement that you are a reliable partner in implementing the Climate Agreement. That is the same climate agreement that is being prepared here, which will be rolled out in Brabant. So my question to Mr Van der Linden is: how reliable is the Forum for Democracy now in the area of the Climate Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u16	Forum for Democracy is a reliable party. I'll give you that. We would like to work together, including with your group and with other groups, to stop the Climate Agreement. That must be done nationally and the time for this is March next year. We're going for a big win. Then the Climate Agreement can go into the trash can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u17	However, I still have the question of how reliable you are. On the one hand, they're going to roll it out in Brabant, while you say here: we're critical and we can throw it in the trash. Just imagine I'm going to tell you I'm opening a mosque tomorrow. I am never going to give in on our points, and the Climate Agreement is a tight point of your party, but you are just doing so, just to be able to cooperate with, for example, as you call it, the party cartel. So you seem completely unreliable, I say through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u18	I don't think so. I think making a compromise sometimes is an option if you really want to change things properly. I note that nuclear energy is also to be used there. If you want an energy transition, it is a great way of achieving that. Let's roll that out nationwide, too. But that's what they're going to start with in Brabant, and I think that's great. The climate agreement that is aimed at the sun and the wind will have to change. We need to do that nationally, and you can hold us to that. That's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mrs Faber, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u20	You understand that I'm going to be very excited about how that all develops in Brabant and here in our house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u21	I saw Mr Knapen smiling when Mr Van der Linden talked about nuclear power in Brabant. I know that Mr Knapen happens to come from that region. Where exactly did that nuclear power plant get to in Brabant? Could you give us a little more clarity on that? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u22	Mr Otten has a kind of tendency to bring everything that happens in Brabant to the Senate room here. No, I can't give you that clarity by putting a location on the map right now. I don't think we're talking about that here in the Senate either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u23	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The law of energy conservation indicates that energy is never lost, but without energy we are lost. It is therefore incomprehensible that we are putting the stable Dutch energy supply at risk for green ideas. It is not for nothing that energy security is often on NATO's agenda, because energy can be used as a weapon. We are holding NATO back to protect our energy supply, but in the meantime this government is giving us not only to the whims of the weather, but also to the whims of the European Commission. Once again, the European Commission has given itself a new power of implementation and negotiation and, in turn, gives powers and responsibilities to all kinds of European institutions, which makes it increasingly difficult to understand the situation. In the meantime, we are getting tighter and tighter in the European straitjacket. Mr. Chairman. While we cannot even predict the weather for a week, draconian measures are being taken to influence the climate. Your delusion of grandeur is pure! This government goes along with it and is enthusiastic about the construction of windmills and sunbathing meadows. That is fickle for nature, disastrous for the citizen's wallet and undermining for the economy. I am not even talking about biomass plants, which are more polluting than coal plants. Mr. Chairman. It is now being imposed that the weather-dependent, renewable energy should be introduced on the grid as a priority. The result is an unstable net through peaks and valleys. In order to avoid problems, the networks must be tightened up and the European networks must be tied together in a uniform manner; all additional costs which are placed directly in the tariffs, which will then be placed on the consumer's plate. And, Mr. Chairman, we're not here yet. The big green grabs go even further under the guise of solidarity. The European Commission comes with direct financial support for coal and carbon-intensive regions. In particular, it is trying to seduce Eastern European countries that prefer to continue looking through their coal power stations with a large bag of money. It would all lead to a just transition. Apparently, the European Commission has a very own idea of justice. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands can boast of a strong gas and electricity grid. The latter has been fed by stable coal and gas power stations for decades. Still, the whole thing has to turn upside down. The Dutch households need to get rid of gas, while in the surrounding countries the households need to get rid of gas. To ensure that, among other things, households in the surrounding countries are not deprived of gas, we must, once again, show solidarity. 'Cause what's going on? Member States are classified in risk groups around gas sources and gas supply and within such a risk group it is obliged to help each other under the guise of solidarity. This concerns in particular the newly defined group of "solidar protected customers'. This includes other households. Of course, it is a good thing that households can count on energy supplies, but the current energy supply already meets this requirement. Member States may, within a framework, add additional groups to those socially protected customers. The question to the Minister is which groups have been added for the Netherlands or which groups he is going to add. In any case, large companies cannot fall into this group. As a result, they run the risk of being summoned to scale up or down at peaks and falls, in order, for example, to provide gas to German households' central heating boilers, which are subsidised by the gas grid. The Minister indicated that only solidarity agreements should be made between Member States whose gas systems are directly or via a third country. For the Netherlands, these are Belgium and Germany and, depending on the outcome of the transition period of the Brexit, the United Kingdom or Ireland. These countries, in turn, have solidarity with other Member States. The question is to what extent this can cause a chain reaction. For example, Germany is bound by solidarity with Poland. To what extent is the Netherlands bound through Germany in this respect? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. The European Commission is well aware that energy is essential. It therefore does not hesitate to abuse energy supply in order to create a strong link between the Member States. And we must show solidarity. Being a solid is actually a form of leveling, only it sounds a bit more comfortable. The energy transition not only undermines our stable, efficient energy supply, which is transformed into an extremely expensive, unstable and weak system, but also our economy with our prosperity linked to it, with the ultimate goal of the ever closer union desired by the European elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-02-eerstekamer-5.u25	Thank you, Mrs Faber. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then suspend the debate until after the first term of office on the next legislative proposal.
