ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u1	We shall now proceed with the examination of the Foreign Affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u2	We have come to Mrs Karabulut on behalf of the SP. I'm giving her the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr. Chairman. The pandemic combined with an economic crisis has turned the world upside down. Some yearn for the past, the SP for fundamental system changes. In the Netherlands, we can hardly cope with the pandemic. There are serious medical shortages, including personnel. For the time being, they can whistle to a higher salary. It's a matter of priorities. In hypercapitalist America, Corona has exposed the weaknesses of the system. Millions of people have no health insurance, no work, no income, no home and sometimes even barely to eat. The American dream is for many exactly that: a dream, just a dream. But there is also resistance and hope in the United States. This is evident from the recent elections, where progressive democrats have strengthened their position. In many places they defeated Republican opponents, including the big money behind them. Worldwide, including in Europe, people oppose oppressive systems, inequality, corruption, capitalism, nepotism, discrimination and climate destruction. Massive movements from the bottom, for example, in Iraq, Lebanon, Bolivia, but also in France and also in the Netherlands, are encouraging. There is a need for an economy and a system that works for everyone. This means fair trade, dismantling the fossil industry, investing in fair jobs and depriving the super rich of their wealth. There is also a need to redefine our relationship with the United States. The time of slavish obedience must be over. It is time for our own foreign policy to support not every illegal, aggressive war. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. Is he prepared to review the relationship with the United States at this time? That means: no longer participating in a permanent war, demilitarizing and more relaxation in the world. This is also in line with the UN Chief Guterres' call for a global ceasefire. What has the Minister done with this appeal? Mr. Chairman. We may not think about it every day, but in the world 690 million people are starving. In such a world, is it not more sensible to make the most of it in order to free up money to fight hunger rather than the 2% madness for NATO that has been out of grace? During the pandemic, inequality has only increased. The billionaires have seen their wealth grow, while 30 million people will die under the World Food Programme if they don't get food soon. This neoliberalism, with the only guiding principle the right of the strongest, is a frontal attack on human rights, which should be universal. In practice, they are not, not even in the foreign policy of the Rutte III cabinet. There is hypocrisy here, and we should change that. A cornerstone of foreign policy, these are human rights for the Netherlands, which is in official documents. There are certainly examples to suggest that the Minister has done some serious work on this in recent years. I would like to congratulate him on that. Think, for example, of sanctions for electoral fraud and violence against demonstrators in Belarus or of making Syria liable for gross human rights violations. That's not just a step. The Netherlands also supports personalised sanctions against Venezuela because of the rapidly deteriorating democracy in that country. Sanctions have also been imposed against Iran against individuals involved in serious human rights violations. These measures deserve support, but what I have great difficulty with is the selective nature of this Minister's human rights policy. In fact, four other countries, Western allies with similar or even more serious human rights violations, can easily be placed in front of the four countries just mentioned, but no action is taken against them. Take Saudi Arabia. The human rights situation in this Islamic state is clear. It's abominable. In addition, Saudi Arabia is largely responsible for the hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of refugees in neighbouring Yemen, against which the country has been at war for years. Hunger is even used as a weapon. But sanctions against Saudi Arabia have never been imposed. Then I'm going to Egypt. This country is also involved in the war against Yemen. It contributes to the strangling blockade of the country and in its own country every critical sound against dictator Sisi is suppressed by force, resulting in thousands of political prisoners. No action is taken here either because of human rights violations. My third example concerns Israel, which has for decades been using Palestine occupied and regularly violently to maintain it. In 2018, some 200 more protesters were killed in Gaza; a massacre. The unsubs are gonna walk. Meanwhile, the sneaking annexation of occupied territory continues, mostly by expanding the illegal settlements. But no action was taken here either. Finally, Turkey. This NATO ally has been engaged in a war against its own people for years; let us not forget that. Many thousands of Turks disappear for the slightest or least time behind bars. The country is also at war with almost every neighbouring country. Over the last few weeks, Turkey has played a key role in the war on Nagorno-Karabakh initiated by Azerbaijan, where ethnic cleansing is at issue. I'm getting predictable. I know, I know, but also here no sanctions for human rights violations. Mr. Chairman. Human rights are universal. The practice is that our minister does not want to burn his fingers on any proposal in the direction of sanctions against these and other Western allies. That makes the Dutch human rights policy hypocritical. I would like to make a number of proposals here to make Dutch human rights policy less hypocritical. I hope that the Minister here in the coming months will, at least in the last few months of his ministry under this cabinet, wish to put all his positive energy into it. As far as Saudi Arabia is concerned, I urge the Minister to work on punishing all parties in the conflict who use hunger as a weapon. I ask the Minister to take the initiative with like-minded countries to identify options for possible measures against those responsible for using hunger as a weapon. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. As far as Egypt is concerned, I have two proposals. It is truly unheard of that the Netherlands still provides the navy of that country with military equipment. I ask the Minister to change this policy immediately. I would also point out that the EU-Egypt Association Agreement is explicitly based on respect for human rights. I ask the Minister at EU level to discuss the suspension of this agreement if Egypt does not release political prisoners. Please respond to both proposals. Mr President, then Israel. It must end the impunity for the perpetrators of the Gaza massacre in 2018. Those responsible must be prosecuted. I ask the Minister, if this is not done soon, to obtain EU support for targeted measures against the perpetrators. As an association agreement has also been concluded with this country, I ask the Minister to open the discussion at EU level on suspending this agreement as long as Israel continues to expand settlements in Palestine. Will the Minister do that? Finally, Mr President, Turkey. Here too, the enormous internal repression can no longer be tolerated. I ask the Minister whether he would like to argue at EU level that preparations are being made to hit the perpetrators with targeted sanctions in this country too. In view of Turkey's policy of war against neighbouring countries, it is, of course, high time that this country was removed from NATO. I've argued it before. How does the Minister feel about that? Does he want to think seriously about accepting this proposal? Previously, I proposed an arms embargo, indeed together with Mrs Ploumen, to complicate the continuation of the war in Nagorno-Karabakh. Turkey and Israel are top suppliers of Azerbaijan. The latter wants to be forgotten. However, the Minister was opposed to this proposal. I want to make this proposal again. What's to stop the Minister from embracing this proposal? There is now a truce between Armenia and Azerbaijan. What does the Minister think of this file? How does he look at that? Does he agree with me that self-determination should be a priority for the peoples of this region and that all refugees should be able to return? Finally, I call on the Minister to call for all war crimes committed in the recent conflict to be investigated and the perpetrators punished. Does he want to bet on that, too? Mr. Chairman. I will move on to another subject which I have also discussed on a regular basis in recent years. I hope that in a new period, with a new Chamber and a new President in the United States, we will finally be open to fundamental changes and at least a critical look at the outcome of permanent warfare. For years the SP has been calling attention to the so-called war on terrorism, which has been raging for almost two decades. We have always pointed out that this policy of war makes more enemies than it eliminates, and that terrorism feeds on war. More terrorism is the result of this permanent war, there, in the countries where the West is throwing its bombs, but also here, in Europe. It is a fact that, in a globalised world, foreign policy cannot be decoupled from domestic policy. All the painful Islamic-terrorist attacks in recent weeks have just made that clear again. The war on terror is accompanied by immense suffering, especially in the Middle East. The long-hidden civilian victims, refugees and extensive destruction in Hawija, Iraq, by the cabinet, are just an example of this. In reality, more than a million people have been killed in the wars launched by the US, which have always been supported by the Netherlands. In addition, tens of millions of people fled the violence. Why is this so little discussed? There has been a recent re-examination of this gigantic flow of refugees. The Cost of War Project of two U.S. universities calculated that US military interference contributed to at least 37 million, rising to 59 million, refugees. Significant figures. I would like a response from the Minister. How does he look at these numbers? Is at least part of the West's responsibility for these huge refugee flows recognised? If the answer is yes, what do we do with this science? Does the Minister see with me the usefulness and necessity of taking stock of this policy of war after almost twenty years of war? What did that get you? For example, through an independent investigation. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The next issue I would like to raise is the new Cold War that has been going on for years between the West and Russia on the one hand. The explicit role of nuclear weapons in this conflict makes it life-threatening. I therefore repeat my plea, the plea of the SP, for de-escalation, for intensifying the dialogue. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, there is also good news. Since last month, 50 countries have adopted the International Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, which brings the Treaty into force in January. After biological and chemical weapons, nuclear weapons are now also the last weapons of mass destruction to come under a categorical ban. It is a beautiful development, which must of course be seen as a response to the failure of the international community, including the Netherlands, to effectively pursue disarmament, to which the Non-Proliferation Treaty requires. I would like to ask the Minister for his response to the nuclear weapons ban, which will become a reality in January. What effect does this ban have on the Netherlands, where the American nuclear weapons are located in Volkel? Minister Bijleveld recently confirmed that with a subtle nod in front of the camera. As far as my party is concerned, the cabinet must now draw up a plan for how the Netherlands will comply with this new treaty. Will the Minister do that? Mr. Chairman. Another point on the non-proliferation treaty. Now it has been confirmed that Volkel American nuclear weapons are on air base, I think it has to be concluded that they should not be there at all. Article 2 of the NPT states: "Every non-nuclear State, which is a party to this Convention, undertakes not to accept, directly or indirectly, the transfer of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices or of the power of disposal over such weapons or explosive devices by any transferor." I think this is enough reason to send the American nuclear weapons back. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to answer some of Mr Voordewind's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u4	Well, Mr Voordewind, Mrs Karabulut will give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u5	I did not know that Mrs Karabulut is now President of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u6	Yeah, I can see it, too, but she wanted a sip of water. That's why she gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u7	Then that's what we'll do, Mr. Chairman. I am listening to Mrs Karabulut's speech. To a large extent, I think we agree. It calls for attention to be paid to sanctions and all possible means of doing so. As far as arms control is concerned, we also go a whole end together. But in the breadth of her story, I kind of stick to the next one. The involvement in the world and in the international fight against injustice is great, but when this Chamber tries to combat terror with military commitment, we constantly see a no-vote from the SP. Think of the missions in Mali, Afghanistan, Iraq. Even when there was a genocide on the Kurds, the SP was against it. So there's a very big involvement. But if, at some point in time, it is not just about bread but also about weapons, then Mrs Karabulut says on behalf of the SP: I do not give at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u8	Thank you for Mr Voordewind's question. I'm going to answer your question seriously. I would like to make it very clear that we are not opposed in principle to the use or use of force. We assess this on the basis of international criteria. We are looking at proportionality and legality. It is certainly not the case that we have never supported missions. We've certainly supported smaller missions. But the examples you are quoting are precisely the ones where I have tried to explain and clarify the following in recent years. The commitment and the thought of it are very logical: we must defeat terrorism, so we are going to invade countries. I refer to the illegal invasion of Iraq. But the result of that has been, when we zoom out and look back, that it has brought us IS. And when we zoom out even more and look at the results of more than 20 years of war on terror, I conclude that it has worked counter-productively. Of course, this has to do with the fact that the root causes are not removed by bombing. In fact, we see that this contributes to the nutrition of terrorism. More groups are emerging. Those groups are radicalizing. If one disappears, a new one will emerge. But it also leads to millions of refugees. I say that we must recognise that, and we must review that strategy. Of course we look at it every time there is a question or a request in the Chamber or we have to send soldiers. We then judge that on the merits, especially when there is genocide or something like that. Of course we're looking at that seriously. Of course we have to help people. Only what has happened here, the permanent warfare, it has also been made clear by means of investigations, we must stop doing so. We have to be honest, too. We must be honest and be honest about it, as our services also warn us, that it is a breeding ground and that more victims have been killed there. But it can also come back as a boomerang and hit back on ourselves. I hope that in the future there will be a little more room, especially in all those parties that are blind and slavish, I say very black and white, following the allies, 'because that is what they expect us to do'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u9	That last remark towards my party is a bit of a pity, but let me not go into that. We have to realise that if you constantly say no to the fight against terror and constantly say no to vulnerable minorities, I call the Kurds and the Jezidis being slaughtered, also by Turkey, then you must draw the consequences from that. Then you need to see that people are victims of genocide. When the international community did not intervene, an example of the SP, perhaps even when we did not intervene in Syria, we also saw millions of refugees taking the neighbourhood to Turkey and Europe. So a no vote also has consequences. My point to Mrs Karabulut is: if you systematically say no, where the most vulnerable groups are, I shall mention them again: the Jezidis and the Kurds are being slaughtered, ethnically purified, and so genocides are taking place, do you realize that there are consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u10	Of course I do. I have tried to explain to Mr Voordewind that where there is genocide, we do support military efforts. Two. The Jezidis were rescued by the PKK, the Kurds, in those early months of the rise of IS. Those same Kurds were then stabbed by the allies with a knife in their backs. NATO ally Turkey then moved into Northern Syria. The same NATO ally Turkey bats Kurds down in its own country. So let's add that to the list. But what's even more important to me is that I want to take you with me and invite you to zoom out. ISIS Obama said it himself, "If the illegal invasion had not started on the basis of lies, it would never have happened in Iraq." That is the real cause of this genocide. I'm the last one to say that we can easily achieve anything in the world. No, Syria is indeed a slightly different example. But we also see in Syria that millions of people are armed by the Gulf States, Turkey, supported by the West, with the CIA. There are all kinds of jihadist groups. We see that has extended the war and made it more painful. And yes, we can focus much better on prevention, on another smarter strategy. And yes, then it's about removing the root causes. I note that this is still not the case in a country such as Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u11	We have a lot of discussions here about Article 100 letters. These are very integrated letters which also describe the root causes, the political consequences and the political context. This government is also committed to this with the support of the Chamber. So, of course, you have to do something about the root causes. But that doesn't mean that you can just look away structuralally where evil has set its head. And if, like a month ago, we want to send a simple force protection for the protection of an airport in Jordan for the Belgians that we are not even directly involved in yet, the SP says: we are not going to do that. How can the SP claim that it wants to fight evil, with sanctions, perhaps with humanitarian aid, if it does not have the courage to use weapons to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u12	Mr Voordewind may say that we lack courage or courage, but I note that in this Chamber you must have some nerve to go against the existing narrative, to say no, because we see the effects of the existing strategy. Let me turn it around: why do we always have to say yes? Mr Voordewind knows as well as I do that in the end it is not always, or almost never, to do human rights. Otherwise other partners would have been supported. The Middle East also has raw materials, including oil. It's been going on for decades. On this point, as far as the last example is concerned, I would like to point out that the interventions in Afghanistan and Iraq alone have led to 15 million refugees. In-house, too, a lot. And in the United States, which is asking us all to do this, our own people also say: why should we spend around 800 billion on militarisation when I have no health insurance and no food? I would like to point out that they hardly receive refugees, that they are heading this way, and that then all right-wing parties are calling: you see those who come to take away what is ours; they are coming to take away our culture. What I'm looking for is another strategy where we don't look away from the root causes and give oxygen to terrorist groups. And that's another look, another vision. But that's not a systematic "no." I'm afraid you're making us a little short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u13	I think we all agree with the plea that we need to address root causes. Of course, we all want people to take over the crew, not the sword. Of course, we'd rather grow crops than fight each other with guns. The point is that at some point there are guns, that at some point there are fighting somewhere. Then you can disagree on whose fault that is. Mrs Karabulut of the SP says very clearly that the United States is guilty of the war in Iraq. There's a difference of opinion on that. But what you see now is that there is war and that the locals are suffering. Is the SP at such a time willing to say: we do not agree on who is guilty, but we are willing to help the people, to make sure that those guns disappear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u14	It is my party that systematically and continuously insists on no longer sending and selling arms to conflict zones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u15	No, but those guns are here now. If the guns are there yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u16	Can I just finish my answer? Perhaps Mr Van Helvert did not fully understand me. My point is not that only the West is guilty of... No, my point is that we are contributing to that, with all the good intentions of Mr Van Helvert. Because it is not just about Western intervention, it is also about oppression, poverty and inequality. That is a very diverse and complex whole. I am convinced, given the facts, that we cannot bomb a democracy elsewhere and that there are often very different interests at the root of a war: geopolitical interests, power, oil. I note that our contribution to this and blindly following the United States, NATO and other allies has not brought what we were promised, namely more security, less terrorism and fewer people on the run, but exactly the opposite. For more than twenty years now, because it is not necessarily defence, it is the chosen wars that are operated in this way. These are the facts. I mentioned the rise from 32,000 to 110,000 Islamic terrorist fighters. At some point, then, we have to light a light and start thinking: we want to do this differently, otherwise we will come to the scenario proposed by the Minister of Defence: instead of 10 or 11 billion now, we will grow to 13 to 17 billion in expenditure on militarisation and defence. And then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u17	I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u18	...you'll come up with even more weapons in the world. So a vicious circle. I am sorry, Mr President, but this is a subject that is very close to my heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u19	I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u20	We are familiar with the argument, but the answer to the question has not yet been given. The moment the violence is there, you can argue about who's to blame and how it happened. Then how do you get it out? You can't say to IS: let's sit down together, we'll grab a cup of tea and we'll deal with the root causes; will you stop killing the locals? Unfortunately, that's not how it works with IS. Is Mrs Karabulut, once there is violence, prepared to cooperate to expel IS first, and then to work on the root causes? Because the moment ISIS walks on the field with guns, the farmer can't grow a crop there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u21	I have just made it clear in detail in various interruptions that ISIS is part of the illegal war in Iraq and that the root causes of that war have not been solved. But let me zoom out and answer more generally Mr Van Helvert's question. I understand him in such a way that he asks: are there any possible situations in which the SP would also like to help in supporting peace and creating a situation in which the weapons remain silent? Of course there are. I have explained that we also look at a number of things every time. Is there an international legal basis? Is it legitimate? Is it proportional? And will it really do what they say it does? We look at this on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u22	I like that. Because the point is: what is the story of the SP to the village in Iraq surrounded by IS? That village is surrounded by IS, the people in the village are trapped. Does Mrs Karabulut say to those people, to those women who have finally come back after they were initially liberated from IS, and to the children who are allowed to go back to school: we have said it before, we were always against the war, we are going to tackle the root causes? Or does the SP also say: we will first free you from IS, and then we will tackle the root causes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u23	Again, IS is a product of intervention. We should never have done that. Of course, when there is genocide, we want to help. I note that at the moment the majority of the parliament in Iraq wants foreign troops to leave and that the young people in Iraq are now demanding that their corrupt leaders resign. The corrupt leaders supported by the Western governments. So at the moment, things have to be very different in Iraq. I would also like to say once again that the Kurds, who have shocked the Jezidis in Singar, are currently being attacked by the NATO partner of the West. The Jezidis have been abandoned in Northeast Syria. I do not want to say that this is the fault of Mr Van Helvert or that Mr Van Helvert proposes it. But it's about very different interests. We shouldn't forget that. My plea is that we must make our own decision and develop our own foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u24	Speaking of fact-free, when the Jezidis in Sinjar were surrounded by the horrible terrorists of IS, we could help them. We did. The Netherlands, with allies, sent F-16s to bomb ISIS out of there. That genocide has been prevented. A lot of people were before that, but who was against it? The SP. Has that point of view changed now? Does the SP want to start helping people who are killed by terrorists?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u25	I just told you it's about the circumstances. In the case of genocide, that's what we want. The Jezidis were helped in the first few months and dismayed by the Kurds. We shouldn't forget that. After that, the Netherlands did start bombing. When there is genocide and we have to save people, of course we are involved in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u26	Not, because the SP has voted against it and is still voting against it. The SP has voted against it, and we will all be able to see that. We've all noticed that. But I see something else now. Mr Van Helvert is presenting something very concrete: there is a village surrounded by terrorists, and we can help those people by bombing. What does the SP say? Are we gonna do something? And then I hear Mrs Karabulut say that we need to zoom out and see what the root causes are. It is even brave that Mrs Karabulut is fighting for another narrative! But what's in it for those victims? What do Mrs Karabulut and the SP offer to victims and near-victims surrounded by terrorists they want to kill? Until now, the SP has always voted against it. Does the SP vote for action in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u27	I have explained how we reach our decisions. We take it very seriously. At least we do not sign blindly because the allies ask for it. And we're not gonna tell a story about it getting us all safe. I would point out once again that the wars, supported by the VVD with the promise that they would bring security, less terrorism and democracy, have completely and fatally failed. Millions of people have fled, then pushed back into the region by the VVD. Europe is currently totally failing to provide humanitarian aid. And then the VVD dares attack us? I challenge you, Mr. Koopmans, to respond to the facts I have told you. The facts are that terrorism has increased, that the number of attacks has increased and that the number of refugees has never been so high. I challenge you to reflect on the question of whether this might be due to our interventions and whether we should not abandon that strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u28	The facts are that every time we were able to decide here on combating IS, Mrs Karabulut and the SP voted against. They voted against combating the most horrible terrorists we have seen in history. No, no, no, no, And there's nothing the SP is offering right now. Every time we ask what the SP wants to do in concrete terms, Mrs Karabulut starts with a huge ideological story. Well, the victims won't be watching, but if they did, they'd hear that there's only ideological battle with banners, but that it's never said once: no, now we're going to intervene and protect the people. I'm noticing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u29	That observation is incorrect. I have already said: in the case of genocide. I also explained why we were against the first and subsequent missions and against the illegal war in Iraq. I explained all that. You have not explained your reaction to the facts. Unlike the promises, there is no democracy, but chaos. The number of terrorist groups has grown and there are so many millions of refugees. And then the attacks take place here as well. Good safety offers you people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u30	I think colleagues have properly exposed the weak position of the SP on security. And they haven't even mentioned the fact that the SP wants an alternative to NATO, but not a European military force, and that the SP wants to reduce defence spending to 1% of GDP. Those are pretty hard hits when it comes to our safety. My question concerns what Mrs Karabulut just said to me about a personal fact. She said I miscited her party's program. I ask her why her party programme states that the SP considers the euro untenable. Why does the SP Party Programme say that the European Commission should be abolished as a political body? When it comes to European cooperation, the SP shows itself, I would almost say, an enemy of European cooperation. Stepping out of the euro costs an improbable amount of money. Abolishing the European Commission will make us lame. I have the following question for Mrs Karabulut: why is this in your programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u31	That's a good question. I have two answers to that. The first answer is that we see that the current euro, with northern and southern countries with totally different economies, is not working. It doesn't work especially for the poorer countries. The programme does not say that we should leave the euro directly or whatever. I believe that the SGP and the Christian Union have included something similar. It does say that we must prepare, given the crises that exist. You may be able to put your head in the sand for that, but we do not. Perhaps there will be two different coins, so that you can also take account of the different economies. That seems to me to be a good idea, rather than having us robbed again and then spending billions on banks, after which all kinds of countries and populations are getting mortified. Then there's the second answer. I simply do not think the European Commission is so democratic. I understand D66's wish very well. They're very clear about that. D66 wants European integration and actually a federal state. I do not think it will solve anything if we continued the foreign program of permanent warfare, geopolitical action, unfair trade and so on. I see a major democratic problem there. I'm worried about that. We would like important changes to be submitted to the population. That should appeal to you. We want to give more powers to Parliament and we want to strengthen local democracies. This way we can continue to work together at European level. When I listen to D66 and read his program, I'm always a little scared that it's being forced...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u32	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u33	... without any support for it. This, for example, makes radical right-wing parties and programmes unnecessarily large.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u34	That is a very, very long answer, which actually amounts to one thing. That's that the SP wants a financial nexit. The SP wants to take away the weekly salary resulting from the euro from the port worker from Rotterdam. That's what it's like, of course. Speaking of facts-free politics, the CPB has calculated that the euro will pay every working Dutchman a week's salary. If you call yourself a socialist party, if you're showing solidarity or saying you're showing solidarity, I don't understand why you're proposing such a harsh measure for the people who really need it. I conclude that the SP is proud of the financial nextit. I wasn't supposed to tell you just now, because it wouldn't be true. I've repeated it now. Mrs Karabulut confirms that this is included in the programme. I find this extremely regrettable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u35	That's obvious to me. I put nuance in it, too. The D66 who normally pleads for nuance doesn't want to see that. You can, you can. I think that Mr Sjoerdsma has a core: who or what should a system function and work for? We simply disagree in that regard. I do believe that the port workers, but also the employees in the care, the classroom, the cashiers or the cleaners in the Netherlands, but also elsewhere in Europe, are not taking enough advantage of all the wealth that exists. On our continent, too, there is a skew. Inequality is, in addition to militarisation, one of the biggest problems. Then you can go both ways. D66 is making a clear move and wants to push further European integration without support, I would almost say, through people's throats. We want a movement, a democratisation movement, the other way. Apparently, Mr Sjoerdsma is afraid that together with other left-wing parties we are indeed proposing a genuine social programme with fundamental changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u36	I suggest, Mrs. Karabulut...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u37	We're not just gonna do crazy things, Mr. Sjoerdsma. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u38	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u39	Mr. Chairman. This brings me to a number of comments on civil society and, in particular, freedom of the press. It's been declining around the world for years. The COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated that process once again. I understand from the Minister's replies that two grants for programmes aimed at freedom of the press, spread over several years, will be terminated by the Cabinet this year. I also read 'I believe that Mr Van Ojik spoke about this too 'that, despite good intentions, there is still little concrete to come back for it. That's worrying. I would ask the Minister not to cut back on this aspect of human rights policy, but to see whether additional investment in freedom of the press is possible. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Perhaps the greatest threat to the freedom of the press in the Western world right now is the persecution of journalist and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. He is threatening to be extradited by the United Kingdom to the United States. I have spoken about this before in this Chamber. The United States wants to prosecute him for his journalistic activities, revealing all kinds of war crimes. In the United States, he is waiting for an unfair trial and possibly serious human rights violations, even torture. Amnesty International warns about this. That is why extradition must be prevented. We should all scream from the rooftops, the minister first: journalists are not criminals; long live freedom of the press; Julian Assange free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u40	Thank you, Mrs Karabulut. I now give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We suffer from Americanitis, a tendency to always look over our shoulder at our big brother. That's a dependency that we seem to be getting rid of very hard. Are we gonna be covered? Aren't we walking too far out of the pass? Of course, I agree with everyone that we need to restore the transatlantic bond. But we also need to get rid of that Americanitis. We need to stand on our own two feet. Of course we can breathe relievedly now that Biden has been elected, but please let's not count rich. Mr. Chairman. My contribution today is really only about one question. What lesson does the Netherlands learn from Trump, in the context of the large coronapandemic? Four years ago, all the alarms went off here. A lot of politicians pushed the snooze button. They thought, "Trump will come around." Some thought, and at least the Prime Minister at the time: let's give him a chance. Others thought: for four years we bite our teeth, but that will be fine. Even today, after Biden's profits, many politicians look hopefully at America. They think our big brother will continue to protect us, push China back into its den, stop Russia from interfering in Europe, and act globally to protect values. But I don't think anything less is true. America simply cannot play this role anymore, even under Biden. Of course, much will change under Biden, also for the better. Especially for the better. But Trumpism isn't gone. America remains war tired, polarized, has to deal with a huge economic crisis, has to do with a major coronapandemic and therefore has neither the capacity nor the will to regain this position. The world has changed. That's why I'm saying today: hear that alarm clock and don't press snooze again. We're gonna have to do our own thing. It is time for a century in Europe, in which the protection of our interests and our values go hand in hand. We must stand up for our own safety and become that player on the world stage. And we can do that through the European Union. As European countries, we spend most of our time worldwide in the field of defence, after the United States. We have the biggest single market, the biggest diplomatic service. We spend most of our time on development cooperation. What is lacking is really only the political will and the strength to use these resources for a strong foreign policy. The good news is today: we can become a great power, but then we have to want it with each other. This requires a change in our mentality. It requires us to stop looking at what our big brother is doing while we've been living on our own for years. It requires the Netherlands to be more active: the brake and the British blockade policy. Foot on the accelerator, hands at the wheel and join the Franco-German plans for a strong Europe. To this end, as the Minister's own officials also advise, more investment is needed in public knowledge and commitment to the European Common Foreign and Security Policy. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to do so and whether he is also prepared to look at the occupation at the posts in Berlin and Paris. Mr. Chairman. In order to grow up geopolitically, we must no longer be susceptible to blackmail, to bribery, to the Trojan-horse politics of China and Russia. We need to get rid of veto in our foreign policy. After all, we saw how these vetos paralyzed us in Belarus and we saw it before in Venezuela. We have seen it in so many areas since then, a human rights statement towards China was stopped by Greece, and I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to take the political flight forward again and to launch an active campaign together with like-minded countries. Then we can finally get rid of those vetos. It's gonna take a job. Mr. Chairman. Having control of our own security, being able to defend our own borders and then acting externally around those own borders means that we will have to work towards a European military force. We can already take a small step by setting up a European Security Council. Then we can respond more quickly to crisis situations, make a more unambiguous and robust European sound heard in conflicts and act more decisively if necessary. I ask the Minister whether he is prepared to work with Germany and France to set up such a European Security Council. Is he willing to involve the British as well? Mr. Chairman. We can only be a credible player if we really stand up for our values and protect the human rights that are under so much pressure all over the world right now. We need to give our human rights policy teeth. European Magnitsky legislation affects human rights abusers where it hurts, in their pockets: no more luxury trips and children who are no longer able to go to boarding schools in Europe. I hope that in December, two years after this Minister took the initiative, we will finally be able to see white smoke. I ask the Minister whether, as requested by the motion widely adopted in this Chamber, he has already identified names for the list of officials responsible for the terrible human rights violations against the Uighurs in China. I urge him to ensure that these names are made available as soon as this regime arrives. Mr. Chairman. In addition to these steps towards European maturity, I also consider it an expensive duty of this minister to restore Euro-American leadership in this world. There must be a clear European commitment to this. As far as I am concerned, there will be a clear European commitment to a major Euro-American summit to strengthen that Western unity by returning America to international agreements and organisations such as the WTO. But I am also thinking of the Iran deal, the lifting of sanctions against the Criminal Court and, of course, the return of America to the Climate Agreement, not to mention restoring NATO's credibility. I ask the Minister to respond to all these points. How will he be committed to restoring that transatlantic bond? On that last point of the Climate Agreement, the Netherlands must, of course, set an example when it comes to compliance. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to ensure that all foreign policy instruments and full Dutch diplomacy are in line with this Climate Agreement. Mr. Chairman. Then human rights. This cabinet has shown itself to be a human rights defender. The human rights fund has been greatly increased. I also mention the Magnitsky legislation in Europe, Syria's state liability for crimes, the connection to the charges against Myanmar and Russia's liability. I should like to focus myself today on a specific subject which has been put even further under pressure by Corona, also in my own country. That's the freedom of the press. Journalists are the frontline soldiers who guard the truth and the facts. Where the work is made impossible for them, democracy slowly dies in darkness. Worldwide, this freedom of the press is under pressure, including as a result of Trump attacks on the free press, sometimes copied too eagerly here by parties in the far-right part of the spectrum. That is why I tabled an amendment with colleagues from the coalition to increase the resources for the protection of journalists. But I think we're gonna need more than that in the next few years. The Minister has promised 9 million for freedom of the press. I ask him if he is prepared to use these resources strategically through tried and tested organisations, so that it does not become a patchwork of resources, jars and organisations, but a real, multi-annual effort aimed at protecting journalists. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a core task of Foreign Affairs, the consular services for the 1 million Dutch people living abroad. Where the previous cabinet was sometimes "out of sight, out of heart," these Dutch people are at the heart of this foreign policy. That's worth a compliment. The 24/7 window is a one-stop shop; I am sorry, Madam President, in four years time there has still not been a good Dutch translation of it. This means that those Dutch abroad can just call the government 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Well, that's what you have to come up with in the average municipality in the Netherlands. That's an incredible service. Mr. Chairman. We're going to the ballot box in four months. During the previous elections, voices went wrong abroad, for example because Dutch people didn't know whether or not they were registered abroad. I ask the Minister if he sees possibilities to make it easier for Dutch people outside the Netherlands to check whether they are properly registered as voters for the forthcoming Dutch Parliamentary elections. Mr. Chairman. Then let's talk briefly about the digitisation of all services. In 2018, I filed a motion calling on the government to have fully digitised the consular document delivery by 2020. That has not yet been achieved, but we have taken great steps. There are still many services that are not digitally accessible from abroad. That often leads to high costs. I would like to ask the Minister if the Loket Abroad can be filled with all public services for Dutch people outside the Netherlands by mid 2021 at the latest. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few comments about Suriname, a country that is very dear to my heart. After years of living under Bouterse, that country now has a fresh wind: Santokhi. Finally, we can strengthen the ties with this important country, with which we share such an intimate history. In addition to restoring the diplomatic relations that went quickly we now need to see how we can help Surinamese Dutch and Surinamese. I am thinking of one specific point: traveling to their families in the Netherlands is often a result of visa requirements at the moment. Those visa requirements are not without reason, because Suriname does not yet meet all the conditions, but I would very much like to see the Netherlands help Suriname, in a good partnership, to remove those blockades. I have therefore tabled an amendment together with the other coalition parties to spend EUR 2 million on supporting Suriname in this process in four years' time. Finally, Mr President. I conclude with Indonesia, where we have to face the black pages of our history. Children of Indonesians who have been executed on a stand-by basis are not eligible for compensation because of a so-called reasonable period of time. I would like to say that justice must not be allowed a term of two years, nor a term of two years. I would like to ask the Minister whether he is prepared to remove this deadline from the regulation, because this may not be about the letter of the law, but about the spirit of what we want to do with each other here. That is taking responsibility for history. We don't want to cut it. We do not want to keep setting small thresholds which make it even more difficult for these people, who have already suffered so many traumas, to achieve their rights. That doesn't suit the Netherlands. That doesn't fit in with how we behave in the world. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I think this cabinet has done a lot in the field of foreign policy. Mr Van Helvert mentioned already the investments in diplomacy and defence, development cooperation, human rights, he mentioned the active attitude in the field of human rights, whether it is the Magnitsky legislation, whether it is the arms embargo against Saudi Arabia, whether it is the state complaint against Myanmar, the commitment to sanctions in the field of cyber, are really serious steps forward that I am incredibly proud of. I believe that the challenge now lies in this change of attitude, the desire for us to show that leadership from the Netherlands and the European Union. President Theodore Roosevelt said a century ago: our main benefit to humanity rests on combining power with high purpose. Let that, I would say, be the role of the Netherlands and the European Union, let that be the guiding principle of a European century. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u42	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u43	Thank you, Mr President. The coronapandemic that affects so many people and which is causing more people to live in extreme poverty, democratic recession, autocratic leaders such as Poland, who use the corona crisis to limit women's freedom of choice, the lingering conflict in Yemen, where people's suffering is immeasurable, 80 million people fleeing worldwide, a violent war on Europe's borders, in Nagorno-Karabakh, Islamic violence in France and Mozambique, a threatening world war in Ethiopia, the reports of recent weeks have been sad. That is why I am holding on to a hopeful idea, namely that only a small percentage of people are needed for change for the better. To be exact, 3.5%. If 3.5% of us protest non-violently, visibly unitedly, then political change is already in motion. That's what an investigation by Harvard scientists shows. I knew it, if we stand strong together, we can achieve a lot, but it's now also scientifically proven. Don't stay still, go down the street bravely, that's a powerful weapon. For example, the women of Belarus hope to force the last dictator of Europe to resign, so that their country can become the youngest democracy instead of the last dictatorship. Every Sunday they march in Minsk for a new Belarus. In Hong Kong Alexandra Wong, also called Grandma Wong, a 64-year-old activist, did not skip a demonstration. With thousands of others, she went out against the new security law and China's oppression. Many of those protesters were arrested, including Grandma Wong. This week, pro-democratic politicians are resisting China's intervention in their parliament and today we heard that their resistance has been smothered. But they're not giving up, not even Grandma Wong. In Poland, hundreds of thousands of men and women go into the streets and the churches to protest against the tightening up of the abortion law. And the Polish Government was forced to postpone the introduction of that law. I am counting on a delay in this case. My point is this: if all these citizens, with courage, but sometimes with the courage of despair, make their voices heard for change, for the defence of freedom, what does the Netherlands offer them? Is the Netherlands uncompromising on their side? Does this cabinet support them in the fight for democracy, freedom and dignity? The answer is: sometimes, but often not. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet needs to do more. The copy-paste plans from the previous budgets that have entered this budget do not provide sufficient instruments to counter the democratic recession. In that budget, I hope the Minister will clarify this and I hope to clarify it. There is also a reduction in the Human Rights Fund, a kind of disguised austerity. In fact, there has been a shift in this budget, which actually means that lhbti activists in Russia and women's organisations in Brazil are being hit hard. I would like to hear from the Minister whether this shift is not a disguised austerity. If it is, I'd like to see that corrected. Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister prepared to invest more in the embassies in order to better support local human rights organisations, as the space for citizens to organise themselves is shrinking in many countries? Mr. Chairman. In that light, I have another proposal, and Mr Van Ojik has already spoken about it. Together with GroenLinks, we would like a democratisation unit to be set up at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a unit that is proactively acting as a revolution is about to happen, if there is to be rapid support for democratisation movements such as we saw in Belarus and last year in Sudan. Mr. Chairman. This minister believes that the Netherlands has its influence on economic strength. However, I find that rather shaky and uninspired interpretation of foreign policy, and also a lack of recognition of the importance of value-driven foreign policy. That is why we are calling for this policy to be reviewed. We are making a number of proposals for this. Our position vis-à-vis China is not fish or meat. Last year, it was clear from the nothing China note. The cabbage and the goat were spared. Thanks to the Chamber there was an orderly human rights paragraph. The Chamber has regularly discussed the terrible situation of the Uighurs. I would like to encourage the Minister, within the framework of China's policy, to step up his commitment to justice for them and transparency about what is happening to them. Mr. Chairman. The geopolitical influence of that part of the world, China, East Asia, is rapidly increasing: rising tensions in the South China Sea, the continuing nuclear threat of Kim Jong-un, the mockery of democracy in Myanmar, the violation of the Papuan rights in Indonesia. Reason enough for an Asia strategy, a proactive Asia strategy. Will the Minister make an effort to make it and submit it to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. My group is also disappointed by the lack of a broad partnership with our closest neighbours: the African continent. The cabinet focuses on stopping migration, and that's about it. But that is a misconception of the struggle for influence and raw materials that is being fought on that continent. It is also a denial of the fact that Africa's security and our security are linked. I would therefore ask the Minister to work towards an equal and geopolitical partnership with Africa, bilaterally and with the EU. These talks should focus on fair trade and combating tax avoidance, but also on cooperation in the fields of security, the fight against terrorism and regulated migration. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Another part of the world: Suriname. Mr Sjoerdsma spoke about it, but I also mean other colleagues. I would have liked to ask the Minister how he sees the future relationship of the Netherlands with Suriname now that Santokhi has been democratically elected. I would like to hear from the Minister what he wants to do to intensify the relationship in the interests of both countries. Last week, the Americans elected a new president. Now we have the president-elect Joe Biden and the new vice president Kamala Harris. On that stage in Wilmington, Delaware, I don't think any of us had ever heard of Wilmington, but it was world news... Kamala Harris had a message for women and girls all over the world: dream with ambition and lead with conviction. With them we can once again hope for a reliable ally in the United States, but it is not that the sky is opening now and we can sit back. The European Union and the Netherlands will have to act as a geopolitical superpower, which we are. We will have to continue to act as a great power that wants to exert influence, not just when it comes to economics and trade. Others also talked about it: if the EU wants to do this effectively, we must at least get rid of the unanimity rule. Will the Minister make a commitment to this? There is also a great opportunity with the new US administration to stand together for women's rights. That's why, together with She Decides, an international movement, I started a petition to support Biden and Harris to put an end to the Global Gag Rule once and for all. I would ask the Minister to share that message with the allies. Mr. Chairman. Finally, on the relationship with America. President-elect Biden has already said he wants a summit of the democracies. I assume that the Minister will support this and that the Netherlands will participate. Mr. Chairman. My last topic is security. 75 years after Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the threat of nuclear weapons is increasing. The cabinet has so far excelled in saying no: no openness about the storage of American nuclear weapons in the Netherlands, no serious discussion about double-sided disarmament, no bridge builder between nuclear superpowers and the signatories to the UN Treaty banning nuclear weapons. The coalition agreement states that the Netherlands wants to work for a world without nuclear weapons, but how is my question? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Against the depressing reality of the democratic recession is the resilience of the 3.5% of citizens claiming their freedom. In this democratic recession, these citizens need a strong and courageous foreign policy of the Netherlands. With such a policy, the Netherlands will not be alone at all. It will only strengthen our position in Europe. It will increase our influence in the world and that is also in the interest of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u44	Thank you. Mr. Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mrs Ploumen made a fine speech. It stands for stronger democracy in the world. It is also concerned about the waning democracy. I agree with her. I also believe that countries can trade better than make noise with each other. What strikes me is that as two beautiful states of law...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u46	I already know the question, Mr. Chairman. Or should I leave it to Mr Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u47	Well, I wonder if Mrs Ploumen knows the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u48	I'm gonna go stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u49	If this is not an interruption, I would be interested to hear Mrs Ploumen's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u50	Well, perhaps first the question: what do you think Mr Van Helvert wants to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u51	I think he is going to ask why, at least, the Labour Party does not support the second part of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u52	Is that right, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u53	And that while Canada is such an ally and such a beautiful democracy and while Justin Trudeau is our friend Jesse Klaver's friend and my friends' friend, et cetera. I think that's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u54	Was that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u55	No, not yet, but I'd like to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u56	Do we do that first or do we ask your other question first? I am happy to answer that; I have done so a number of times. We have considered that the second part of the CETA Convention is simply not enough for us, because it was with Canada that there was a great opportunity to ensure that not only companies but also civil society organisations and trade unions would have equal access to dispute resolution. It is precisely in the knowledge that Canada is also in favour of this that it is very disappointing that this cabinet has not been able to negotiate it. That is my answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u57	Are you satisfied with that, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u58	I understand you always want something better. You can always see what's better. The alternative is that you don't have this right now. The question is whether that is what we want to achieve. Parties all the way to the side, on the flanks, think you should tell your own supporters that it's better that we do it alone. We know that the PVV likes to do so; Forum does so and also the SP likes to do so. But if parties that are closer to the middle, on a birthday, don't dare to explain that you have to turn in a little of your own will to get a lot further together, I'm very worried. Doesn't Mrs Ploumen also worry at the moment when everyone wants the best in a negotiation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u59	The Left Party Party of Labour is not concerned about this. Neither is Mr Van Helvert's CDA. The part that we were not satisfied with, and which we could not agree with, is even missing from the trade agreement with Japan, which this coalition has wholeheartedly concluded. I have not seen Mr Van Helvert be very unhappy about this either, nor has Japan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u60	Finally, Mr Van Helvert.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u61	That is true, but it remains to be seen that there is no treaty now because we do not like parts of it. And I find that sad, because we are all talking about the 75 years of liberation, where Canada also had a big finger in the mouth. This was interesting again, Madam President, but my real question was about the agreement with another ally, namely the United States. Of course, with every ally there may be some disrespect about things, but in general, if gross geese, we simply do a great deal together with the United States. What is the position of the Labour Party with regard to the agreement with the United States on the contribution to defence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u62	Ah. Mr President, perhaps one last sentence on the previous point. Let me then express my disappointment at the fact that this cabinet in Europe has not received sufficient support for an improvement in that part of the treaty, although Canada wants it. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that Mr Van Helvert did not read the electoral programme of the Labour Party. I think he's the only one in there. Thank God I've got it here! Otherwise Mr Koopmans would have had to present it again. Mr Sjoerdsma has it, too, I think. I'm gonna go look up that particle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr Sjoerdsma has it, too. He's got all these charming assistants today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u64	Maybe we can just copy it, Mr. Chairman. Seriously, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna try the... Page 93, I'm telling Van Helvert here. Point 9.4 deals with international security. There is talk of an active role abroad. On the second bullet, at the bottom, rule 45, it says: increase the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u65	Is that true with the copies you have, Mr. Van Helvert?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u66	By the way, we don't have that deal with America, not with the United States. It is a standard set by NATO. The agreement is that countries will grow there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u67	Last question, Mr. Van Helvert, because you are already over your number of interruptions. You're gonna get rid of it. That's good. Then I will go to Mr Sjoerdsma, because he has another page of the election programme, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u68	No, Mr President, it is a shame to discuss the election programme right here. We have plenty of opportunity for that, I hope.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u70	I just had the next question. It is a bit about the subject that Mr Van Helvert also raised: that beautiful free trade agreement with Canada. Can Mrs Ploumen imagine that her first parliamentary group, of course free of burden and back-spoke, is going to vote in favour of that treaty? Can you imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u71	It's just up to the First Chamber. I can say that again to Mr Sjoerdsma in all sorts of keys and other words, to the left, to the right, because we have exchanged this before. That's really up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u72	Well, that's good news. I heard that last time, and then I might have thought too little about it and thought...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u73	I can't imagine!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u74	...that it was a bit of a procedural answer. But of course it is not a procedural answer; it is just very good news, I think. Mrs Ploumen sees that space. She can't speak on behalf of the senators. It's not funny, and it's lame. But it's a good thing that space is there. I don't hear anger, either, if that were the case. So that space, that freedom for the First Chamber... I would almost say: "Mr Koole, can you hear me across the street? Go for it!"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u75	Too bad Mr Sjoerdsma and his group in the House of Representatives did not take the liberty of negotiating for so long until there was something really good, because it was within reach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u77	You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u78	Then I give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. Well, the election starts somewhere around March 17 or so. All right, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just realized that I did not bring my new election programme, so if colleagues want to copy it, please!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u80	Mrs Ploumen has an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u81	I do not now participate in the new elections either, but I will undoubtedly support them wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u82	Mr Voordewind is now bringing it up himself, otherwise I wouldn't even have him... It's a bit rude, because he didn't even take it, but on page 90 of his election programme it says that there should be exit scenarios for the euro and that it's clear that Europe is prepared to take tough decisions. Now it seems to me that something that makes Mr Sjoerdsma very unhappy. What's the deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u83	I assume that you are quoting from the old electoral programme, because the new electoral programme has yet to be adopted. So it would be very handsome if you had that at hand right now. We have, of course, also discussed the euro extensively and whether what we are doing now is sustainable for the future. We've come up with different scenarios for that. We have also looked at whether you should not go in two directions, two paces when it comes to developments in Europe. In that context, you should see that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u84	Please continue. Mr Sjoerdsma pretends he hasn't heard. Maybe that's okay. Yes, you can say something. Mr. Sjoerdsma, what exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u85	I would like to thank Mrs Ploumen, because I had not noticed that part in the Christian Union election programme. I sincerely hope that the members of the Christian Union will be more sensible than the authors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u86	That is another appeal from Mr Sjoerdsma to the Christian Union's supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u87	We're gonna see it, because I think they're putting the finishing touches to the new election program. We're gonna watch what's in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u88	It'll be taken. Now you can start again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u89	Yes. I've moved on ten seconds, but we're gonna make it in my time. Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget of this minister in missionary condition, so it is also good to look back a bit. I am not going to repeat Mr Sjoerdsma's words about the profits of this cabinet. This minister has also invested in human rights. Other colleagues have invested in international policy, development cooperation and defence. Colleagues have referred to it. Hopefully we're on the verge of a new era, under a new American president. But we know that an end to the Trump period does not automatically mean that Europe will be embraced again by America. We need to keep our own pants up much more than before, also for our own security and within NATO. The corona pandemic has shown that we are also economically dependent on abroad. This is not just about the protection measures we needed, but it is wider than that. That is why colleagues Heerma and Segers have also tabled a motion to the General Political Reviews on strategic autonomy. I ask the Minister: have any further steps been taken to implement this motion? There are concrete ideas about this. Mr. Chairman. Then I begin my contribution to the war in Nagorno-Karabakh. Fortunately, yesterday there was the good news that there is an agreement between the warring parties, although led by Russia. The threat of the mass ethnic cleansing of the Armenian population in Nagorno-Karabakh seems averted, at least for the time being, because the agreement that has been concluded does not mention the status of Nagorno-Karabakh. That makes us fear the worst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u90	Mr Voordewind understands, I think, that I want to ask him the same question as I asked Mr Van Helvert. Why is he arguing for an arms embargo this morning, when he did not support Mrs Karabulut's and myself's motion on 6 October? That motion called for a cabinet commitment to subject all warring parties to an arms embargo. Isn't it a little late now, given the terrible events of recent weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u91	I read that motion right then. That motion called for Armenia to be included. At that time we saw objections, because Armenia was the underlying party. If Armenia, as an underlying party, could not gain access to weapons, then we were sure that it might have ended even faster. That is why our motion is very much aimed at reaching an arms embargo against Turkey and Azerbaijan. It is not too late, because we know that the ambitions of Turkey and Azerbaijan do not stop. This is a Chamberlain deal, I might add, from '38, where they, I believe, made the statement that they will not stop until all of Nagorno-Karabakh is taken. In that respect, it is still relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u92	Of course, that's just bullshit talk, with all due respect. This motion calls for the government to work in the UN for an arms embargo against the parties and countries involved in the conflict. If you want to achieve lasting peace, such an arms embargo must apply to all countries. That is what the Minister would have done. So let me ask Mr Voordewind again: why an arms embargo this morning, now that it is simply too late, it is too late, and on 6 October, when you could really have meant something to the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, vote against it? I am not saying that this would have been the ultimate solution, but I am sure that this minister's commitment in Europe and in the UN would have contributed. A great deal of unnecessary suffering would have been avoided. They're crocodile tears. I think this is really very bitter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u93	I think it is very bitter for Mrs Ploumen to say this. I ask her, according to the procedure, not to do so, so it is a rhetorical question, then, who were the parties who started the aggression and the attack. That was Turkey. That was Azerbaijan. Turkey has been involved in this conflict by military means. It took the Minister four weeks, but in the end he also acknowledged it. Jihadist fighters were brought from Syria by Turkey to Nagorno-Karabakh. My point was: we might have had a more focused motion back then... I have, of course, already called for an arms embargo against Turkey, which was last year. Turkey is an aggressor to many surrounding countries: Libya, Syria, you name it. That is why our approach, of the coalition parties, is specifically directed against Turkey's aggression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u94	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u95	Your commitment should have been directed specifically at ending the violence in Nagorno-Karabakh. And that could have been done by addressing Russia, Turkey, Israel, all the countries concerned. You left that behind. That's a fact. And that is not a pity for me or for Mrs Karabulut, we find it painful, but it is particularly bitter for the people of Nagorno-Karabakh, and especially for the Armenians who have had to submit to this deal last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u96	Did Mrs Ploumen in 1940 call for an arms embargo against England, while England and Europe were attacked by an aggressor, namely Nazi Germany? I don't want to make comparisons, because all the equations break down, but you have to think carefully about which underlying party, attacking party you exclude from the ability to defend itself. That is why our motion is specifically directed against Turkey's aggression. And I really hope, Mrs Ploumen, that you will support this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u97	I would like to say to Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Ploumen that the DENK Group did support that motion. Because if you are in favour of a sustainable solution where you want parties to go round the table, then you must also ensure that an arms embargo applies to anyone who uses arms. But it can't be that you tell one party that they can't have weapons anymore, when you tell the other party, because that's what Mr Voordewind is doing. Yes, you can have weapons. While there's a war going on. And a war always knows winners and losers. I would like to put the following question to Mr Voordewind. Is he actually happy with the peace agreement? What should the status of Nagorno-Karabakh be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u98	If there was one party happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u99	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u100	He's just getting started. Calm down!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u101	I'm just getting started. If one party was apparently happy with the use of weapons by Azerbaijan and Turkey, then it is the gentleman behind the microphone here: Mr Kuzu. Because we were able to read the tweets on Twitter. We have read that he applauded the victory of Azerbaijan and Turkey, that he apparently encouraged Turkey to attack Nagorno-Karabakh and all the surrounding provinces, that thousands of people have been slaughtered. And now he's come to tell me to go plead for even-handedness! Mr President, this really is a farce!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u102	Yes, Mr President, that is why I said: answer my question. Because DENK was in favour of Karabulut and Ploumen's motion. And Mr Voordewind was not. And he's standing here blaming me for cheering! Mr. Chairman. There is also a historical aspect to this conflict. This historical aspect is very quickly omitted by the Christian Union, but also by the predecessors of the Christian Union in the Chamber. I dived into the Acts of the 1990s, when the first conflict flared up in Karabach. Do you know what the result was? That 2 million Azerbaijanis had to flee. And then I didn't hear anyone in this room. I've checked the Acts. And certainly not the Christian parties here have firmly condemned that, as they do here today. If that's not hypocrisy, Mr. Chairman, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u103	I call on Mr Kuzu to take off his mask. Mr Kuzu may pose as a predecessor of an embargo on the warring parties, but why did he cheer when he sent that tweet when he said: what good is that the Azeris and Turkey have now slaughtered the Armenians and that they can now put the flag of Turkey and Azerbaijan back in Shusha? Mr. Chairman. That wasn't even-handedness. That was a pure partiality of this Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna distance myself from that. Mr Voordewind has to show me where the cheers are. Because that is not the case. I'll ask the question again. I have six more questions to ask, and I'll keep asking them every time. The DENK Group was in favour of the motion by Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Ploumen who asked for that even-handedness. Mr Voordewind was against it. I ask him again, and I will ask him again three more times: how can you blame me for being one-sided in the story when you do it yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u105	Because Mr Kuzu's story is very hypocritical. And that's evident from his tweet. He's not at all balanced or proportional or you name it. He has clearly chosen a party before, namely Azerbaijan, for Turkey, so that they can get the provinces and Nagorno-Karabakh back. Mr President, if Mr Kuzu is reading the resolution correctly, then he can see that this has also been the result of the fact that it was the disputed areas, the surrounding provinces of Nagorno-Karabakh, but not Nagorno-Karabakh itself. Let Mr. Kuzu take off his mask. He clearly took sides. That motion was a cover for his so-called neutrality. We know him through his tweet. He supported Azerbaijan, the aggressor, including Turkey, who eventually got their way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u106	Attempt number four. I have made it very clear that my words, my actions and also our voting behaviour reflect this even-handedness. This is not evident from the actions and actions of the Christian Union here in the Chamber. That is what we have seen, and that is what we can actually establish. I also asked a question about the historical aspect, namely that there was a similar war in the early 1990s, with a lot of blood spilled and millions of people fleeing, to be precise, against the two million. They ran away at the time. There was also war back then. At that time, the Christian Union was either "or the predecessors of the Christian Union" were "mouse silent." Not a word has been said about that here in the Chamber. I ask Mr Voordewind: why do you blame my party for hypocrisy when we were in favour of that motion and you were against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u107	I cannot really take Mr Kuzu seriously when he says he was in favour of balance. Maybe we should show you the tweet. He really welcomes the victory of Azerbaijan, of Turkey, of the massacre of hundreds, perhaps thousands of Armenians. He is pleased with the victory, finally the flag of Azerbaijan is back in Şuşa. He calls that balanced. I can't take that seriously at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u108	Finally, because it's going to be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u109	I have two more questions, because I also have another aspect that I would like to mention. When we look at international law, we see that 20% of Azerbaijani territory was occupied by Armenia. That's illegal. That was an illegal occupation. But Mr Voordewind does have a thing for illegal occupiers, because he is calling for an arms embargo today. He never argued for this when it was about another underlying party, namely the Palestinians in Palestine, in the conflict between Israel and Palestine. I have here a list of government agencies and companies working with Israel. I refer to the security region of Haaglanden, working with a drone producer on a drone project that is being used in the bombing of Palestinians. I refer to the National Air and Space Laboratory, the Netherlands Forensic Institute, the Ministry of Justice and Security, ProRail, Single Quantum B.V., Corvers Procurement Services BV, Erasmus University and Vrije Universiteit. They work together with Israeli partners on programmes that encourage military or repressive application or with which Palestinians are bombed. I ask Mr Voordewind: where is his plea for an arms embargo against Israel? 'Cause he's so into underlying parties, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u110	I asked Mr Kuzu in this debate two or three weeks ago whether he thought Turkey was militaryly involved with Azerbaijan. He refused to answer that. The Minister himself replied a few weeks ago, but probably Mr Kuzu will still deny that Turkey was involved in the fight in Nagorno-Karabakh. He also asked me a question and I told him: if you answer my question, I will answer your question. But I fear that today I still cannot get an answer to my question concerning Turkish involvement and the transfer of jihadist fighters, with a $100-200 reward for every Armenian murdered. I'm afraid I can't get an answer to that. However, I must tell you that I have also informed the Israeli Ambassador that I am very displeased with the use and use of cluster munitions and their sale to Azerbaijan. I will provide you with an answer, but I fear it is not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u111	Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u112	You have already received the answer from DENK. I shall refer once again to the hypocrisy of the Christian Union and of Mr Voordewind in the motion which the group of the Danish People's Party has supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u113	I didn't ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u114	That's not a cover; that's an actual aspect of this whole story. This is an actual aspect. I have asked Mr Voordewind whether he is equally opposed to the use of weapons against the Palestinians. The Netherlands contributes to this. An arms embargo against Israel could also be a solution because of the list I mention here. Isn't that what he was like for those underlying parties? Not in this case! Can you explain to me what consistency is behind this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u115	I'm afraid my...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u116	To conclude, this was my last question. I don't think we're gonna get any closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u117	No, I don't think so either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u118	But Mr Voordewind's hypocrisy is quite clear. Let the viewer judge that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u119	I fear that my expectations regarding the answer I asked of him are true. I asked him a very simple question: do you reject Turkey's military involvement in Nagorno-Karabakh? You asked me a question about Israel's cluster munitions. As you know, we are a friend of Israel, but I deeply regretted and also rejected the fact that Israel was selling cluster munitions to Azerbaijan. Politically and strategically, I understand, but I disagree. But you have not shown the courage to condemn Turkey for supplying weapons and, even more importantly, giving a bonus to jihad fighters who kill an Armenian. You've never distanced yourself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u120	That's the traditional way of trying to frame your opponent. The last time we had a debate here, motions were tabled. We supported the motion calling for an arms embargo against all parties concerned. We supported that motion. The Christian Union has not done so and therefore you shake no. The Christian Union, as a friend of Israel, you now say: 'Friend of Israel'. That has given you an answer to your question. You can keep saying ten thousand times that we are not answering your question, but we have. We have shown it by our voting behaviour and Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union has not done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u121	Mr Kuzu, you were given the floor because you were asked a question. Proceed, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u122	I'm not gonna ask another question. I note that Mr Kuzu is making himself truly unbelievable. I asked him the same question 26 times. He asked me a question about Israel. No, Mr. Kuzu, you don't have to answer, because I've given you three or four times the opportunity to answer. You have heard me say and I will say again that we have condemned the delivery of Israel's cluster munitions to Azerbaijan. I have asked you four times whether you condemn the aggression, the military involvement and the placing of bonuses on the heads of Armenians. You refer each time to a motion by Mrs Karabulut, but through your tweet the mask has gone off and you have shown your real nature: you cheer, together with the Azerbaijanis, the Azeris and the Turks at every dead Armenian. That is your true face, and I find it deeply and deeply sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u123	I just gave you the floor, Mr Kuzu, so you could answer the question. Wait a minute. Relax, Mr. Kuzu, no one can hear you. You just got the floor to answer this, but then you went back to another point. If you want to respond, you will have the opportunity. Otherwise, I propose that Mr Voordewind continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u124	I would like to make a personal statement on Mr Voordewind's abject remarks that I would welcome when an Armenian was killed. I'm definitely gonna distance myself from that. I don't think war is a solution to conflict. Solutions will come to the negotiating table. However, I would like to add that 30 years of negotiation in this case has not produced justice. Mr Voordewind has a number of questions left. I hope he saves them for me; then we can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u125	I suggest you move on, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u126	For a moment I had hoped that it would come, but also here no condemnation of Turkey with regard to the aggression in Nagorno-Karabakh. Very disappointing. Mr. Chairman. I had received a question from the Foreign Minister. What are his feelings and impressions of the declaration, of the peace agreement, which is now in place and of the fact that it may be so vulnerable not to lay down the position of Nagorno-Karabakh in that regard? There are only Russian peacekeepers going there to maintain that one small corridor to Armenia. What is this Minister's assessment of the great risk that 38 will repeat itself, i.e. that this will be a peace agreement for a provisional peace? The statements of the President of Azerbaijan were clear. He would continue until Nagorno-Karabakh had fallen. Mr. Chairman. In the French Senate there is now a proposal to recognise the Republic of Artsach, also known as Nagorno-Karabakh, so that the responsibility to protect can be claimed. Just as happened 20 years ago around Kosovo, when there was a threat of ethnic cleansing. Does the Foreign Minister consider it an option to consider whether the Netherlands could recognise Artsach, so that they are able to call for international aid at the time of Nagorno-Karabakh being attacked again? Mr. Chairman. I also have the following question to the Minister. Turkey has been the driving aggressor. We have seen this before with the Kurds, Afrin, Syria and Libya. Now we see this with the Greeks. That's where they want to drill for oil and gas. The European Foreign Affairs Council said last time: if the Turks send another boat, we will really resort to sanctions. What will this Minister do when it comes to the follow-up measures towards Turkey? Are sanctions actually coming within the Council and is this Minister going to make an effort to do so? Mr. Chairman. Finally, we have already discussed whether the Minister is prepared to commit himself within the EU to an arms embargo on Turkey, because of the aggression. I say it again, not only aggression in Nagorno-Karabakh, but also in Syria and Libya. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. We are talking about the EU and NATO. There will undoubtedly also be a discussion on Turkey's position. Does the Minister think that Turkey should be addressed to its aggression, to its actions towards Libya, Greece and to Nagorno-Karabakh at the moment? Should Turkey's position within NATO not be put on the table once and for all? Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u127	Those who have just listened to the interrupting debate might perhaps get the impression that it is the men, Erdogan or I know much which other dictator, who determine the fate of peoples. I just heard someone say, "War always wins." I notice that everyone here has lost. I find it painful to see that there are parties and MPs who cannot openly distance themselves from nationalist, inflammatory language. I agree with everyone that this should not be an ethnic-religious conflict, but you have to name what is going on. I have a question for Mr Voordewind in this connection to make it absolutely clear. He says he was against an embargo last time for all the parties involved in this conflict, because Armenia is the underlying party. But Armenia very much wants an arms embargo on Israel, because it delivers cluster munitions to Azerbaijan. Does Mr Voordewind support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u128	The supply of cluster munitions is prohibited internationally. We have a ban on cluster munitions. I will argue everywhere and always in favour of countering the deployment of cluster munitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u129	To make it very specific: Mr Voordewind is now proposing an arms embargo against Turkey in connection with the war on Nagorno-Karabakh, which we have de facto already. He called for the commitment to promote an arms embargo in the EU as well, which is de facto happening. That can all be firmer. I wholeheartedly support that. Another party that supplies a lot of weapons to Azerbaijan, and not just cluster munitions, is Israel. I would ask Mr Voordewind, through the President, to defend the same for Israel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u130	I believe that there should be a stop on arms delivered to Azerbaijan or Turkey. Turkey has its own arsenal of weapons which are being deployed in the fight against Nagorno-Karabakh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u131	Proceed, Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u132	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to Northern Syria and Iraq. I ask the Minister about the trial of ISIS fighters in Northern Syria by the Kurds. The Minister called on the Security Council to do this. What can be reached by now if we commit to this? Is the Minister prepared to give more support to the victims of ISIS and the victims of trafficking in human beings? I am thinking of Syria and Iraq, especially the jazidi women who cannot return to the villages they come from, because they have become pregnant by the rapes of ISIS fighters. Are the government and this minister prepared to see if we can find a separate shelter for these jazidi women, and possibly also for Kurdish women and Christian women who have been raped and who need specific shelter in this vulnerable situation? Mr. Chairman. Then Israel. Is the Minister prepared to examine a proposal to see if we can speed up the freedom of movement and the waiting times of Palestinians towards Samaria and Judea? We've always talked about reconciliation projects here. Sometimes it takes two hours. We could speed that up with Israel to two minutes. It's fine to be able to do that on the 1967 line. We've done that before with scanners heading for Gaza and scanners coming from Jordan towards Samaria and Judea. Is the Minister prepared to take a serious look at that? Mr. Chairman. In 2017, the Chamber adopted a motion to stop disproportionate criticism of Israel in votes at UN bodies. We see again that six of the seven motions have been supported by the Netherlands. We know that this minister is involved with even-handedness, but I would like to ask when this motion by Mr Van der Staaij is actually being implemented. Does he agree with the Christian Union that motions with a one-sided designation of the Temple Mountain, namely only the Islamic name Haram al-Sharif, should no longer be supported by the Netherlands, precisely in the context of even-handedness? I may also ask the Court to give a ruling on this in the second term. Can the Minister state exactly what the criteria are for the reconciliation projects between Jews and Palestinians? There are several organisations that are proposing projects to us, but they do not really know what the criteria are. I'd like to hear those criteria. Mr. Chairman. One final question on this point. The representative of the Palestinian territories lives in East Jerusalem. The representative of Israel is not allowed to live in West Jerusalem, because he must live in Tel Aviv. When we talk about even-handedness, why the inequality at that point? I'd like to hear an explanation about that, because I don't get it. It would be nice if he could also live in West Jerusalem. Saves him a lot of travel time. It'll make him very happy. Mr. Chairman. Finally, freedom of religion. Mr Van Helvert has talked about this in detail. There's more reason than ever to think about this. Fortunately, this government has made this a major priority. We just heard that Christians in North Korea are even burned in steel cages. In China and Pakistan, they are being prosecuted. I'd still like to dwell on Pakistan. Last week we heard that a 13-year-old girl named Arzoo was abducted and forced into Islam. She had to marry the 44-year-old neighbor who kidnapped her. If this were the only example, it would still be. Then it is terrible, but there are dozens or hundreds of girls who are kidnapped at a young age and who are forced to convert to Islam. By the way, these are not only Christian girls, but also Hindu girls. What can the Netherlands do to prevent this injustice? There are still people on death row, simply because of false accusations of blasphemy. We've talked a lot here about the Asia Bibi case. Fortunately, she has been released, but other Christians, not only Christians, but also Muslims or people of other religious origin, are in prison on the basis of false accusations. What can the Minister do? We have previously adopted a motion here to bring about an international campaign against the death penalty on blasphemy. How has that motion been implemented by now? Are we working on an evidence bank for the crimes against the Uighurs? A motion was recently adopted on this too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to draw the Minister's attention to the special UN rapporteur on freedom of religion and belief. He barely has a budget to do his job and has to do it almost wrong. He's getting a bunch of plane tickets reimbursed by the U.N. I would suggest adding 2 million for his commitment to freedom of religion and belief, to expand his work much more. Mr. Chairman. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u133	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr. Chairman. In this last regular budget of the cabinet there is, of course, also much looked back. If we go to the State Department's premises, our eyes automatically go global. Then we see a lot of concerns in all kinds of areas. We have often talked recently about the pandemic, but rather about the terrorism that has been taking place in many places and the tensions between the great powers. I am also thinking of the unrest raging by Turkey that we have just seen. A lot of worries that have emerged over the past few years. Blessings and positive points can also be mentioned. I myself thought the agreements were a nice one that Israel concluded with a number of states, through the United States. Mr De Roon mentioned this first, and I thought it was right. Given all the difficult developments in the Middle East, that is a good point of light to be mentioned. Mr. Chairman. We have also adopted a lot of motions in many areas over the past period. There will be new ones, but it is always good to find out what actually came of them. Did those motions have any effect? Of course, we'll do it for that. I'll walk by a few grounds, if you don't mind. A number of motions for resolutions which we have supported are designed to set limits on the action of the European Union. They want a little more modesty from the European Union. When I look at that, I see that we have also received a motion for a resolution, which says: do not continue to strive for an ever closer union, but look a little more practical, a little more pragmatic, where you really need each other in Europe. What has become of this motion, which says: Cabinet, see if we can get more support for it in Europe? Another example is the Bishop/Leijten motion: do not allow the Multiannual Financial Framework to grow. We also see a great deal of ambition in the field of Europe. There's chips coming by. They're called BNC chips here. I thought: we don't like abbreviations here, because people should be able to follow it, so what does that even mean? BNC stands for assessment of new Commission proposals. Of these, not dozens, but hundreds have passed through the last period, from the European Green Deal and more efficient decision-making to the labelling of tyres. Would it not be important for Europe to have greater control over all kinds of new initiatives? Recently, the European Commission's proposal for a European minimum wage came up again. The list is endless. Does the Minister not see the risk of missing focus and support for this commitment in Europe with all this commitment in so many areas? That is the first subject. Then there is the second issue. I have just mentioned that the enmity between Israel and a number of Arab countries has made way for Abraham's accords. Nice that rusted patterns could be broken. I have advocated here more auspiciousness; a majority of the House has supported this. I actually thought that was a nice biblical word. It is not used much anymore, but graciousness is something like benevolence and kindness. I have therefore advocated greater goodwill towards Israel, including in the United Nations, where so disproportionately many resolutions are fired towards Israel, often so one-sidedly. The examples have been mentioned. This motion, which has received support, says: government, make sure that fewer unilateral resolutions are taken towards Israel, supported by the Netherlands. How then is it that six out of seven resolutions have been supported in the last period? Mr. Chairman. In addition, last week a fine motion was passed by my colleague Schalk in the First Chamber. In this motion it is said: Cabinet, do not participate in the UN resolutions using only the Arab name for the Temple Mount. My question to the Minister is whether he intends to give serious effect to this too. Finally, in this area: does the government work on implementing the so-called IHRA definition for anti-Semitism? Mr. Chairman. Then persecution of faith, in the field of religious freedom. There are enormous problems in many countries. The examples have already been mentioned. Mr Voordewind mentioned that 13-year-old girl in Pakistan who is forced to marry and convert to Islam. But it is also about countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, China, Libya, Iran, India and Nigeria. On this point, we have the question of whether it would be appropriate to initiate a special resolution in the UN Human Rights Council to combat religious persecution. Does the Minister feel that way? I also ask about the developments in radicalisation. We also saw examples of jihadist terrorism in Europe in the Netherlands; we will talk about it in the Chamber tomorrow. But this is often a consequence of radicalisation in countries outside Europe and outside the Netherlands. We also saw decapitations in Mozambique in recent days, and we see militant Islam in Africa making itself stronger. Is there now a more common commitment? I have raised it in the past in the context of a working visit to Nigeria to combat precisely that militant, radical Islam, by supporting moderate forces who want to counter it in their own country? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to developments in North Korea and China. Human rights are being violated there. We know; we've talked about it a lot. The tortures in North Korean prisons rightly referred to the cabinet as crimes against humanity. We have had debates about the Uighurs and the position of Christians in China. However, we can see that we are actually not getting much further on that. What opportunities, for example, are there for cases before the International Court of Justice to go further in this respect? What possibilities does the Minister see when it comes to North Korea and China? That is my specific question. Finally. Motions have been adopted on South Africa and Indonesia, particularly with regard to the Papuan population. I ask the Minister what implementation has been given to this international pressure on South Africa for land expropriation from white farmers. I tabled a motion on this with Mr Van Helvert. I would also like to hear the state of play on police and judicial exchanges with and support for South Africa in the fight against violence and impunity. Mr. Chairman. This is what I wanted to leave it at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u136	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands' foreign policy sometimes seems to be a far-from-my-bed show. In an era of globalisation and rapid information exchange, the opposite is the case. Foreign policy, conducted by this government, affects everyone in the Netherlands. It is therefore important that there is support for foreign policy. There is still a great deal to gain in this area. Because the Netherlands is a country that is distinguished by its excellent diplomacy and conflict prevention. Perhaps we are a small country in terms of surface area, but we are doing great deeds. By being a country that sets the tone in the international community. Because of the changing international relations and the increasing geopolitics of self-interest, it is more important than ever for the Netherlands to continue to work for equality and justice, and against impunity and polarisation. DENK's basic principles are that eurocentric foreign policy and Western superiority must be counterweighted. The Netherlands should always strengthen diplomatic ties to promote human rights and the international legal order wherever possible. The Netherlands must continue to look at the minorities in need, minorities who are oppressed and the blind spots of Western society. Mr. Chairman. Today I want to discuss four points. One: the danger of polarisation, the strength of a united Europe, the blind spots of Western society and the need for an international nuclear weapons ban when I get there. The year 2021 will be marked by the impact of the corona crisis, which will put further pressure on geopolitical relations. The crisis has shown us how developments elsewhere affect our open Dutch society and economy. More and more we notice that foreign tensions affect our society, communities that call each other names on social media and fight foreign issues in Dutch streets. This impact on our society must be avoided. The guiding principle is international law at all times. Mr. Chairman. DENK abhors the murder of the teacher Samuel Paty in France. We abhor the attack in Nice. We abhor the attempt to attack Avignon and the horrible events in Vienna. But it can't be that an entire community, in this case the Muslim community, is marginalized and criminalized because of the actions of some crazy lunatics. The aftermath of events, the trend of action, is worrying. This is not happening in a country far from here, but in the land of liberté, égalité and fraternité. Macron stated that Islam is in crisis worldwide. This is not only too short, but it is also a question of problems, because as a leading member of the European Union, it will strengthen relations with the Islamic world for your own foreign policy and promote tensions within national borders. A measure such as shutting down Islamic organisations without any legal basis does not fit into a democracy. I would like to ask the Minister if he has contacted his French colleague to help him by pointing out that the path taken by the French is not the way that brings social cohesion closer to France and to Europe. Does the Minister share that polarization doesn't take us any further? And isn't it sad that professional provocators, like Mr Wilders, are throwing more oil on the fire? I don't hear Rutte's team about that. Mr Rutte did so at the beginning of his term of office, which resulted in the famous parliamentary spectacle "Be normal, man" - "Be normal for yourself." The whole world has seen that polarisation in foreign policy has made the world more unsafe. If there's anything that Trump has shown us for four years, that's it. DENK congratulates the Democrats and the President-elect Biden on the election results. These are exciting times, and with Biden's multilateral approach, I hope that we can look forward to a period where we can have for a change a United States that does not disrupt the world and, in particular, the Middle East. Hopefully we will have a period of peace and stability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u137	I hear Mr Kuzu talking about France, about the terrible terrorist attacks that we have seen there. Then there's an argument about polarization. I would like to know very clearly not only for me but for all those who are watching Mr Kuzu that he has supreme solidarity with France and with the victims and that he does not want to give any suggestion here that France's policy of defeating and tackling terrorism is related to some sort of cause, some sort of excuse for violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u138	I find it a very strange question because I have just started my contribution by saying that I find what has happened horrible. If that has not come across sufficiently clearly for you, I would like to repeat that, of course, one hundred percent solidarity and one hundred percent condemnation of what has happened in France, but also in Vienna. I absolutely do not want to create the contradiction that there would be no solidarity. Unfortunately, I have to stress that again. I then see, as we have seen before, that there is a social reflex in which we hold a whole group of people responsible for the act of some crazy fools. That's what I want to watch over. Look, you're talking about fighting terrorism. In this Chamber, DENK has always supported the approach to terrorism. At the same time, the people we really need in this fight are precisely the communities that live in France and the Netherlands. We need them very much in the fight against extremism and radicalism. That is my plea; let there be no misunderstanding about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u139	Tomorrow we will have a debate on the attacks in France, I say to Mr Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u140	Then I hope that Mr Kuzu will join in and that he will abandon some sort of combination of things. Yeah, he's judging it. That's fine, very good, rightly so. There's no other way. But then he says: yes, but there are other things as well. I would therefore like Mr Kuzu to condemn the actions that come from a number of Islamic countries to boycott French products, to condemn France for the policy of tackling terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u141	Tomorrow's the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u142	Madam President, it's about something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u144	It's about foreign policy. Mr Kuzu is standing here all the time taking everyone's standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u145	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u146	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u147	...that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u148	And now he can once say quite clearly: victim blaming cannot be, terrorism is horrible and we support all forms of combating terrorism within the limits of international law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u149	I wonder why the VVD here is acting like there's a contradiction, because what he's asking is exactly what I'm doing. I abhor terrorism, I abhor attacks, I show solidarity and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u150	No, Mr. Koopmans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u151	... Mr Koopmans is trying to create a contradiction. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u152	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u153	You know there's a debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u154	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u155	That's gonna happen tomorrow. Mr Azarkan will take part. If you are interested, we will also have a debate tomorrow morning on integration and social cohesion. That is exactly my point: we must promote this social cohesion and we must not let ourselves be played out by some crazy fools who want precisely this, namely the creation of contradictions. We can't allow that. I ask you, Mr. Koopmans:...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u156	You, too, will have the debate tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u157	...let's not do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u158	Tomorrow's the debate. I suggest you move on. No, Mr. Koopmans, you have nothing left. In fact, you have more than... Oh, no, I'm not gonna say this out loud, because then others say they want to. Proceed, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u159	Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, our society, our citizens and our Kingdom benefit from a secure and well-functioning international legal order. Just now, as the Netherlands, there is an opportunity to reform the multilateral system from the point of view of equivalence. Only through a multilateral society can we cope with corona. The Netherlands must work towards strengthening the unity of the European Union. Only in this way can the European Union be an influential party in a world in which geopolitical relations are changing enormously. Does the Minister agree with me that the European Commission's democratic deficit should finally be tackled and that the Netherlands should take the lead in this? We also call for greater powers for the European Parliament to control the European Commission. European policy on foreign affairs, human rights and sanctions must be more united and concrete. Now we know that the Minister has been working very hard on the EU sanctions mechanism. I'm gonna ask him how much longer we're gonna have to wait for this. Mr. Chairman. The conflict surrounding Azerbaijani Karabakh was the perfect illustration of how decisive action is made difficult by the failure to have a united Union. While Armenia's occupation of Azerbaijani territory was completely illegal, the Minister does not want to comment on it because of even-handedness. Hunted by the Chamber, it was about matters which, as far as I am concerned, distract from the conflict. It is a good thing that a trilateral peace agreement has been concluded, but then you wonder what 30 years of discussion at the Minsk Group has resulted in for the nearly 2 million Azeris who had to leave home in the early 1990s. What has been the outcome of the recent 40-day war for the Armenian mothers who lost their sons and for the women who saw their husbands killed at the front? The result is even more hostility. I really wish, from the bottom of my heart, that peace and stability be established for the region, in which the people who have been plagued by conflict and violence can live together in peace over the last few decades. Although the Russians have taken up this gauntlet and finally achieved peace, I ask the Minister to support this peace agreement and to identify at EU level the possibilities to contribute to its compliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u160	We share that wish, that peoples should live together in peace. But what I do miss somewhat in Mr Kuzu's story is, of course, that those resolutions, the facts and the history, which you can discuss, do not justify the commitment, the aggressive commitment, of Turkey, led by the Turkish President, to support Azerbaijan and to involve foreign fighters. Does Mr Kuzu share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u161	I share the view that, when there is a conflict, every party involved, including Turkey, must ensure that there is de-escalation. At the same time, I would like to point out that for 30 years, through the Minsk Group, through Russia and through the United States, the aim has been to achieve a diplomatic solution to this conflict. Unfortunately, this has not been possible, and this has led to the need to take up arms. That really is the very, very, very last solution to fighting a conflict. Unfortunately, it happens. I am not in favour of this, but it is true that we really have to bear in mind that 2 million people fled from Karabach in 1993 to Azerbaijan, Turkey and other parts of the world, so that we now see a community of Azerbaijanis here in the Netherlands, but also a community of Armenians, who are on the opposite side of the Dutch streets. I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u162	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u163	Fortunately, Mr Kuzu does not want that. Yeah, I bet you do. But, once again, what has been laid down in resolutions and the fact that the process has indeed been stalled for 30 years does not justify Turkey's action and Turkey's intervention in a military way, with military support, but also with the import of warriors? Can Mr Kuzu quite clearly distance himself from that? I share his story for the rest, but if you don't name this and make it clear that that's not the way to resolve conflicts, that makes his story unbelievable. What is happening in the meantime is exactly what you say: nationalism is being fed, violence is being fed and innocent civilians are being killed, now on the other side. And in the Netherlands there are indeed all kinds of groups that are facing each other. And there is, for example, even the objectionable ideas of a group like the Grey Wolves, being further fueled. If you also make that clear, I think it is very valuable for the people of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u164	In my first contribution, I tried to answer that, because the point is that when there is a conflict, foreign interference does not help such a conflict. We saw that in Karabach. We saw that in Syria. We've seen that in countless other places in the world. At the same time, that is what I said, because I agree with you to a large extent that we have been looking for a solution to this particular conflict for 30 years through diplomatic means and that we have not been able to find it. Then I find it regrettable, and then I deeply regret that there has been a bloody war of 40 days in which, according to the first figures, nearly 10,000 people have died.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u165	We really need to move on. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr. Chairman. Over and over again, the Netherlands has indicated that it will do its utmost to combat human rights violations. Yet there are some blind spots in Western society. Fortunately, they are now getting a little more attention than before, but it is still insufficient. One of the minorities in the world who are massively oppressed and victims of mass surveillance and forced labour on a large scale is the Uighurs. How is it that we are silently watching while Uighur women are being forced to sterilize or abortion on a large scale? How is it that by now more than 1 million Uighurs are trapped in re-education camps? Adrian Zenz, expert in this field, has now indicated that there is a demographic genocide of the Uighurs. This immeasurable suffering of the Uighurs must stop. There can be no more looking away. DENK therefore wants this cabinet to speak more firmly and consistently against this suffering. We must strongly condemn the actions of the Chinese regime, and that is where it comes in for the first time, Mr President, to sanction the s-word. A company such as the tech giant Hikvision with a European headquarters in the Netherlands must be sanctioned, because this company supplies technology to China which is then used for the suppression of the Uighurs. The perpetrators of human rights violations must be actively prosecuted. The members of the party's staff must be on the European penalty list. The products from forced labour must not end up in the Netherlands. I'd like a response from the Minister. Is the Minister prepared to hold the Chinese regime to account for the human rights violations it is committing against the Uighurs? However, the Uighurs are not the only ones suffering from dirty and dirty geopolitics. For decades the Palestinians have been oppressed, fought and driven out. The result? 80% of Gaza's population depends on humanitarian aid. Innocent children have limited access to medical care, clean water and education. Recently, 504 Palestinian homes were destroyed, leaving 642 people displaced. 153 Palestinian children are currently imprisoned in Israeli prisons. The illegal annexation of Palestine by Zionist Israeli settlers continues. Modern colonisation is contrary to all the values and values that we are trying to uphold internationally. How can Israel, a country that has violated and violated dozens of UN resolutions, always get away with it with impunity? What else needs to be done before a line is finally drawn and it is said that it will no longer be possible to do so? DENK wants this government to appeal firmly to the Zionist-Israeli government for their illegal settlement policy. Israel does not deserve a hand over its head, as his patron Trump did, but harsh sanctions. The EU association agreement must be terminated. I'd like a response from the Minister. Israel's behavior is a disgrace and unprecedented at this time. In the fight against the colonisation of Israel, it is time for the Netherlands to recognise the State of Palestine. Mr. Chairman. Snoozing in our corners of the eye there is a creation of a new Palestine in India, in the Kashmir region. It is well known that the government of India has a Hindu nationalist agenda. The fact that this agenda is accompanied by Muslim hatred is less known. The autonomous status of Kashmir has now been revoked. This was followed by drastic restrictions of freedom for Muslims. Local politicians encourage hatred and violence. The Prime Minister of the State of Uttar Pradesh threatens the demonstrators in the Kashmir region with the words: you will be buried alive. The Consul General of India in New York states in internal circles that what Israel can do with the Palestinians, we can also do with the Muslims in Kashmir. Amnesty International is calling the bell. Dutch professor Marcel Brus talks about coordinated hate-sowing. India currently sits on the UN Human Rights Council. It is precisely now that the Minister must address India at diplomatic level to his disgusting actions. Has the Minister ever spoken to his Indian counterpart about this? What is happening at EU level? Mr. Chairman. My final point. DENK insists on the issues mentioned above, because the Minister himself states in the budget that the world is likely to become more unsafe in the coming year. In an impetuous world, it is necessary to have a national and international nuclear weapons ban right now. In 2021, the five-yearly Review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, of which the Netherlands is Vice-President, will take place. What objectives does the Netherlands set for the Vice-Presidentship of the Review Conference of the Non-Proliferation Treaty in 2021? We certainly can't disarm them alone. How will the Netherlands promote US involvement in arms control and disarmament in 2021? I would urge the Minister to pay particular attention to this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u167	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-11-tweedekamer-9.u168	On Thursday, at 4.30 p.m., we will continue with the Minister's reply and the conclusion of the debate.
