ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General European Reviews, namely the Government's first-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u2	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have come to the last part of my answer: the rather large stack of failures diverse. It starts with Mr Frentrop's question as to why Europe should have a strategy on digitisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u4	With your permission, Minister, I apologize for interrupting you. I give the floor to Mr Schalk, because I promised him that he would be allowed to make a short interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u5	That's why I'm getting up right away. Then we can cut that off, or we'll have to get back in a minute. We were just discussing those two motions that were once accepted in the House of Representatives. The first one on the IHRA has explained the Minister very well. The second motion was about taking an active position in the UN against Member States that act disproportionately against Israel and reject unjust motions. It was widely supported at the time. My position was that it was very often voted against by the Dutch Government, but that it was also abstained a number of times. The request is whether it can be more firm with a vote against. To finish immediately: I asked if there were any additional things needed to make Europe safe and free from Islamic terrorism and whether the secret services have sufficient opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u6	It's in the failures divers. The UN votes are not necessarily European policy. We try to coordinate this with other European countries, but opinions often differ. That is, by the way, linked to your question about when to vote against and when to abstain. It sometimes happens that we think that a step is being taken in the right direction, but not enough. Then you show your intermediate position by abstaining from your vote. We need them all, but on balance, the number of resolutions specifically aimed at Israel is decreasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u7	I would have made the same observation. I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation of the abstention. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u8	Then back to Mr Frentrop's question as to why the European Union has a digital strategy. Because there are both essential safety components and internal market elements. With security components, of course, there is the whole discussion about dependence, the vulnerability of especially 5G systems when provided by countries that have different thoughts about privacy and state security than the Netherlands. As far as the economy is concerned, this technology has extremely cross-border global implications, and fortunately there are very interesting scientific and business developments in the Netherlands and Europe. At the same time, we must note that the real great developments are taking place in the US and China. We must all be concerned about this, both because of the economic opportunities that exist and because of security. Then it makes sense for Europe to look at how data and privacy are handled on the regulatory side. It makes sense to do so in Europe. By the way, we are trend-setting in that world. But you also have to look at questions like: why is venture capital actually wider and more readily available in the US than in Europe? Of course, this has to do with the way in which we organise our capital markets. So I think it makes sense that this is on the agenda. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked what possibilities there are for the internal market rules to be less dominant. He dealt with health care in the labour market, among other things. First of all, I would like to stress that it is very important for the Netherlands as a trading and exporting country that we have agreements on the functioning of that internal market. I started my speech with that. As a medium-sized country, you are much more vulnerable to State interference than larger countries with deeper pockets. Nor do I see the fact that these internal market rules themselves are changing, as they are enshrined in treaties that are not easy to change. However, it is very legitimate to have a discussion about how they work and whether national measures can be taken to deal with them. One example of this is the report just issued at the request of the cabinet led by Mr Roemer on how to deal with labour migration. This is a consequence of the right to free travel and the possibility for Dutch companies to recruit people across the EU. That has a number of sides that create tension. We need to see how we can take national measures. Both Mr Koole and Mrs Huizinga raised the question of how to increase the national involvement of parliaments in the European process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u9	Mr Van Apeldoorn would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u10	The question I had asked about greater flexibility and variety in the internal market was slightly broader. It is not a question of abolishing the internal market. The point is that the internal market always says that these freedoms are sacred and absolute, that they cannot be violated and that there are no exceptions. Yet, in some Member States, the four freedoms are working in a certain way. They stand in the way, for example, of setting up our public sector and of organising certain public services. The question then is whether it is possible to make exceptions to the internal market, by saying that in some cases Member States can opt out, or whether certain uniform rules can be revised in order to create greater flexibility at European level. Minister Blok mentions Emile Roemer's report. I'm glad he called it. We can, of course, try to do something at the back about the excesses of unregulated labour migration in Europe. We can also try to do something about it on the front, by regulating this labour market pan-Europeanly and saying that it should not be possible for Member States that wish to do so............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u11	What's your question? That was your question. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u12	What you can do nationally depends on the agreements you made in the treaties you have to abide by. A very large part of labour market policy is national. Mrs Faber has also asked a number of questions about this. I'll get right on that. Freedom of movement is an agreement we made with each other. If you wanted to change it, you would have to change treaties. That was the option that I said earlier: the chance of that happening seems very small to me. In general, this will not be in the Dutch interest either. Mr Koole and Mrs Huizinga asked about the greater involvement of national parliaments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u13	Excuse me, Minister. I believe that Mr Van Apeldoorn is not quite finished with his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u14	I'm all ears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u15	I did not really get an answer to my question about how the Minister thinks about bringing more variety and flexibility into the internal market, so that it is not always one size fits all and allows your Member States to make exceptions, for example when it comes to the public sector and the service of certain public interests. Let me change the subject and make it a little more concrete for the Minister. Maybe that'll make it a little easier. The Minister mentioned the Roemer report. I am surprised that he did not mention the other report, which I believe was issued last month, also at the request of the cabinet. That is what I was talking about in my first term. That is Minister De Jonge's report on the procurement directive and how the European procurement rules are used: one size fits all........................................................................................................................................................................................... The cabinet itself has said that it is concerned about that. The report also shows that European procurement rules are ineffective and ineffective, and that they are actually hindering our youth and home care systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u16	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u17	My question is this. Minister De Jonge has said that something needs to be done about this. I don't hear the Minister about that. My question in the first term was what steps the cabinet is planning to actually bring about an adaptation of the European Procurement Directive. That goes beyond the treaty. We're not just talking about the treaty. We could change that, by the way. We are also talking about directives which have subsequently been adopted and which are now subject to much discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u18	The same reasoning applies to this too. Mr De Jonge will come back with his reaction to that report. But whether you want to amend the treaty itself or a directive, you need a lot of supporters to do so. My own professional assessment is that you will not find it, because there is no such need in other countries. They're good with that. So I'll give you a fair estimate that it won't work along that route. Then there's the other route. That is why I referred to Mr Roemer's report, to see what you can do nationally to overcome the parts of European legislation that you say lead to certain effects in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u19	Very briefly, Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u20	I'm just wondering if the Minister has agreed to that with his colleague De Jonge. He said: this is really a problem that needs to be addressed, priority; I am going to the European Commission to ask if this directive cannot be amended, revised, and I will urge it from the cabinet. I assume that the cabinet speaks with one voice, so my question is what steps the cabinet will take through Minister De Jonge. You say that this is a pointless exercise in advance, because the majority of the Member States are so okay with it. I find that a disappointing answer, given the government's own policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u21	I have already indicated that Mr De Jonge will return to it in the letter. I have also indicated that I have a low probability because few Member States share this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u22	You're making your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u23	Yes. I am finally going to answer Mr Koole and Mrs Huizinga's question about the great involvement of the national parliaments. One of the Dutch spearheads on which we have fortunately also made progress is greater transparency about European decision-making. There are more opportunities for national parliaments to see how far legislative processes are at European level and what the Commission is committed to. We have managed to form a large coalition on this too. Many countries do not support us, and indeed a number of countries do not support us, because they do not have a tradition of transparency. But the good news is that both the Finnish and German Presidencies have been moving in our direction in recent months. Mrs Huizinga asked how I looked at Mr Schout's article, recently in Trouw. I always read Mr Schout's reflections with great interest. Yesterday I held an extensive video conference on European policy with Mr Schout, at Clingendael. I'll leave the term "modify" for him for a while. Mrs Huizinga may allow me to refer to the articles I myself have published on this subject. For example, in the context of Europe Day, I have written in The Financial Daily that the drawing of great visions leads to failures every time. We have had the great vision that by 2010 Europe would become the most competitive and prosperous part of the world. Yeah, I'd like to, too, but unfortunately, that didn't quite work out. What I very much believe in is moving forward step by step. We have made great progress in many areas. That's the way it works. So I don't use the term "modify" but "step by step forward." By the way, I have written an article every day in the Financial Times, which led to a lot of reactions from Brussels. In that article, I stress that the European Commission should not be political; it should not be the debate that has been held here too; it should be very conscientiously implementing the treaties. That is how I try to interfere in the debate. Mrs Huizinga also asked how the conference on the future of Europe will deal with citizens' consultations. At this conference from the Netherlands, I would like to emphasise that I think it is crucial that the parliaments are involved. I find that from the bottom of my heart. They represent the citizens. Parliament in the Netherlands is elected with high votes. Parliament contains the whole palette, from very eurocritical to very positive and between it and that very large pragmatic middle group representing a very large part of the Dutch population. I am, of course, open to all kinds of thoughts about citizen consultation, but in my opinion it is not possible to get it wider than a good parliamentary input. Mrs Faber asked a number of questions about European social policy. She asked: will there be a WW, a basic income, a minimum wage? None of that's gonna happen. Social policy is and remains a national competence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u24	Let me get this straight. The Minister says it all very smoothly, but Mrs von der Leyen has indicated that she wants to transfer those powers to Europe. Can I conclude that the Minister indicates that he is keeping social policy with the Dutch Parliament and that he also retains his right of veto in this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u25	Mrs Von der Leyen's wish would require a treaty change. I just had to disappoint Mr Van Apeldoorn. I must now also disappoint Mrs Von der Leyen. I see a lot of countries in Europe that do not want to transfer that power to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u26	The Minister talks about other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u27	The Netherlands doesn't feel that way either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u28	Okay. The same applies to the Netherlands. Your microphone was off, so I don't know if it's going to be recorded in the Acts. That's why I'm repeating it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u29	It is not a new and shocking statement, but he will undoubtedly be in the Acts. Mr Vendrik asked about the efforts of the Netherlands and Europe to make available to less prosperous countries if there is a vaccine against corona. That is a very valid point. The Netherlands itself made 5 million available for this purpose. In addition, the European Commission has made available amounts of 400 million and 50 million for various forms, because it is indeed a global interest. Mrs Huizinga asked: how to proceed with relations with Turkey? That could be an evening program in itself. I shall confine myself to the conclusion of the last European Council, which clearly contains two tracks. There's a hand out to Turkey. As soon as Turkey shows its constructive side, whether it concerns the situation in the eastern Mediterranean or the agreements on the migration pact, the European Union is ready to intensify the relationship. But if Turkey, on the other hand, takes wrong steps in the eastern Mediterranean or in the area of the rule of law, the European Union will also respond to this with the whole range of measures, including sanctions, that are possible. Mr Schalk asked about the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. Mrs Teunissen asked for that too. The cabinet has responded positively to this, but there is no concrete legislative proposal yet. Once there is, of course, a more detailed response will come your way and go to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u30	In the first term, I asked the Minister how this Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy can be in line with the climate targets we have set if we have an agricultural policy at the same time that runs counter to those climate targets or at least cannot guarantee that we will meet the climate targets and the Paris Convention. We are now dealing with a new agricultural policy where 80% goes to regular agriculture. That only creates extra emissions. Will the Minister also take steps to ensure that we object in Brussels to the fact that there is no objective in the common agricultural policy that can guarantee that we will meet these climate targets?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u31	That's two things. You asked about the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy. He's not here yet. I just indicated that we'll respond to it as soon as there is. The common agricultural policy has just been brought back to the Agriculture Council. Earlier in the debate, I indicated that there were a number of benefits in this, but that there are still some things to be desired. Mrs Teunissen is very explicit in that. But there is no further possibility of amending it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u32	The Minister says 'this is actually a different point than that Boer-to-Bord strategy, because it is still to come'. But that Boer-to-Bord strategy should, of course, be in line with the climate targets we have all set. And we can already see from the common agricultural policy that this is not going to happen. So my question is to the Minister: if that Boer-to-Bord strategy comes, will he take account of these climate goals and take steps to ensure that that Boer-to-Bord strategy is in line with the climate objectives that we have all agreed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u33	It is logical for Mrs Teunissen to point out that measures in the field of agriculture must also be in line with the Commission's climate plans. I agree with her. Once again, we shall also look at the Boer-to-Bord strategy if it is there, but it is not there yet. I can't help that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u34	I'm trying to keep seeing what I'm saying, so I'm gonna have to put my glasses back on anyway. These climate objectives do not seem entirely feasible to us. I said something about that, too. But now we're talking about the Boer-to-Bord strategy. My question was not so much about appreciation so far. I asked whether the cabinet could and would like to avoid the far-reaching interference with the European Commission in national agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u35	The European role in agriculture has been there since the start of the European Union. By the way, the Dutch Commissioner Mansholt played a huge role in this. So I find it difficult to say 'that we are going to prevent' because it is a very large part of the policy, because it is not only an essential part of our society, but also has huge cross-border characteristics; it is a global market. So if you set different requirements in the Netherlands than in the countries around us, that immediately affects the ability of farmers and gardeners to produce in the Netherlands. So I think it makes sense for you to make European agreements on this. Environmental or climate impacts are almost always cross-border. So I also think it makes sense for you to make European agreements on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u36	Finally. I understand that agreements are being made, but I have a very strong impression that the policy is now largely dictated from Brussels, especially when we look at that Boer-to-Bord story. Then you talk about more than just making agreements; then you also get all kinds of policies that the Netherlands should comply with. Of this I would say: let us try to shape our own policies as best we can, of course with respect for what is agreed in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u37	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u38	I do not know whether Mr Schalk has any specific rules in mind, but nevertheless. The agreements you make about pesticides that you can or can't use. They directly affect what you can grow and what the price of what you can grow is; there may also be cross-border effects. I don't think it's weird to agree to that European thing. Animal welfare requirements have an immediate impact on the price of a product. So if they are different in the Netherlands than in the countries around us, then it has an immediate impact on whether or not you can produce in the Netherlands? I do not think it is in the interests of the Netherlands not to make these agreements. The Netherlands is very strong in agriculture. Frankly, especially when I come outside Europe, I often get the question: how can Dutch companies in greenhouse construction, seed farming or dairy farming become more active in Africa or Asia? However, they do have an interest in a level playing field at European level. Mr Schalk also asked about the climate targets. He said very sharply: they are unfeasible. They're certainly very ambitious. We also have alternatives. We're dealing with an increase in CO2 and a rise in temperature. It is our responsibility to intervene. You can't wait endlessly. We have also made international agreements on this. It's very difficult. I have already pointed out to Mr Knapen that it is technically difficult. It's hard to get the audience. It is one of the most complicated political challenges we face in the Netherlands and worldwide. But the fact remains that we must do something about these emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u39	It is certainly a very complicated task. However, we have now incorporated into the law in the Netherlands that we even want 49% CO2 reduction. Isn't that how you create your own Urgendas? Imagine if, through Mr Timmermans, we could see from Europe that it should be 55% by 2030, that would already be contrary to our own law, because we have set it at 49%. How do we think we could make this happen in the future? Then I think a lot of lawyers say it didn't make it, so we're gonna put some pressure on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u40	Here too, it is in the Dutch interest that you make European agreements. If we were the only 49% to agree, the chance is lost that you, as a world, will achieve that CO2 reduction. Moreover, production in the Netherlands becomes much more difficult and expensive. So it is good in itself that we are doing this European thing. Eventually, we have to go to 100%. You'll get more time for it, but you have to go there. So you have to go by 40% and 50% once, otherwise you will never reach 100%. It's tricky. I already pointed out to you on the wire transfer. The impact assessment.......................................................................................................................... For example, the European Commission also assumes that fossil fuels will still be used by 2050. The European Commission indicates that this use must then be compensated with CO2 uptake. You can see that the European Commission is assuming a significant share of nuclear energy and a very high and increasing share of biomass. It's confrontational, but it's being calculated and looked at what this would mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u41	Mr. Schalk, can we finish at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u42	I'm rounding up. 49% is already a huge task. It's hardly feasible. Can I at least assume that the government will not encourage us to put 55% in our laws?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u43	No, I'm not going to tell you that. I know there are political parties who say that we do not need to tackle the problem, but Mr Schalk is not one of them. If you want to deal with the problem, you have to take steps. Frankly, I find the objectives the easiest part, equally disrespectful. The tricky part is behind that: what measures are you going to do this with, how are you going to get the people involved and how are you going to pay for it? But in the end, you're gonna have to go to that zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u44	I have a question in the follow-up to Mr Schalk's question, but from a different point of view. My question is also about 55%. In the Netherlands 49% has now been agreed by the cabinet, but the cabinet said in the coalition agreement I also pointed out in my contribution that it is aiming to reach 55% in Europe. That's the cabinet's endeavor. The Commission is proposing this now. I would like to repeat my question to the Minister: does this mean that the 55% target is still valid? If this does not apply only to Europe as a whole, the Netherlands will then wait for the 27th country to agree once again. Or does the Netherlands, perhaps together with other countries, say already: we want to reach 55%, the Commission wants to reach 55% and so we in the Netherlands are going to really strive for 55% reduction by 2030. I think this fits in with the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u45	Here too, the Netherlands has formed coalitions with full commitment to reach that 55% in Europe. Fortunately, we are successful in this, but unanimity is required in order to establish this. It is not the case that the Netherlands, as the only one, or together with a small group of countries, should automatically switch to that 55% if other countries do not. Mr Koole also realises that the effectiveness of these measures is much less if you do not do so together with all the countries and that it also affects the position of Dutch companies. I understand that Mr Koole is going to ask me to do it again. First of all, let us work together on what we agree on, namely that we are going to sit Europe-wide on that 55%. Because then we're both happy. Mr Koole is going to ask me to go to that 55% in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u46	Mr Koole, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u47	Apparently, the Minister already knows what I'm going to ask. Now I think I'm gonna ask for something else. No, I was going to ask here: why do we have to wait as the Netherlands until everyone goes to that 55%? You then mention the interests of business and so on. I also said in my speech that if the Netherlands is a first mover and is ahead with a group, which can be very interesting for business. This brings standards, techniques and innovations that are ultimately good for business and may be exportable to other countries. So it is precisely in the interests of business that a faster target of 55% is very important. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u48	It is important, as Mr Koole says, that it can be an advantage. It's not a natural law that there's a first-mover advantage. It's possible. That's good. If you are the first with a product or procedure where there are indeed demonstrable benefits, then you have a first mover advantage. It may also be that you walk faster than the public can, for example, wear, or what is affordable. An example of this is France, which once wanted to advance on the internet and introduced its own minitel. In addition, there has been no first mover adoption at all, because it wasn't what the audience wanted. So we should not present it as a law of nature. If the Netherlands with a small group of countries really goes much further than others, then part of the energy-intensive industry will not disappear but move away. Therefore, no less CO is emitted. But let's be happy about what we agree on. The full commitment of the Netherlands, and also of Mr Koole and his party, is: let us go to that 55% in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u49	I have a comment in support of what Mr Koole has just asked. It is not for nothing that the cabinet itself, on occasion of the Dutch Climate Agreement, asked all these parties at all these tables: prepare for 55% and not only for 49%, but also look where acceleration is possible. So that is already in the Climate Agreement. That button's in there. You could also say... Mr Blok makes some rather heavy comments on what is the difference between 49% and 55%. Of course, the difference isn't that big. We know we have to speed up. If you keep going at 49% and 2030, 55% and 2033 must be about a fact, otherwise you won't even reach zero in 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u50	So what is your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u51	Would the Minister be a little more egalitarian in saying that the cabinet simply takes up the position, as it has already pointed out: we are going for 55% with as many countries in Europe as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u52	Mr Koole's question was: if it does not work in Europe, will you make it mandatory for the Netherlands, or for the Netherlands with a few countries? You won't hear that part from me. Surely there is no difference of opinion as to whether I have the ambition? I will go to Mr Schalk, who is asking for something on the other side. What do we think of the European Commission's proposal to include the built environment under the emissions trading system? In this case, too, there is no specific proposal. So I'm not sure there will be a proposal either. When it comes, you'll have our assessment of that again. Mr Gerbrandy asked about the climate issue for a report that led to a subsidy to the fossil industry of 8 billion. This calculation and the term "subsidies" still have some questions to ask. There are all kinds of things that are taken into account that you cannot necessarily attribute to industry or consider to be subsidies. It's true that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u53	Excuse me, Minister. If you cannot keep a distance of 1.5 metres, at least put on both of them, I will ask the Members. For your own safety, that is the urgent advice. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u54	... the European Investment Bank is phasing out the financing of fossil fuels, so there too that transition is being supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u55	I would have asked that question in the second period. But it's 8 billion. The minister says this is already being phased out. We had until 2020 to cancel the entire grant, which was promised in 2013. What are you gonna do about that? 'Cause nothing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u56	It helps me if you mention the source of this communication. On the previous one, my officials had to look very hard. What report says 8 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u57	Mr. Gerbrandy is afraid to turn off his mouth cap at all, but once you have arrived at the interrupt microphone and no one is within a foot of you, you may turn it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u58	The source is the Overseas Development Institute, ODI, and the Climate Action Network Europe, CAN Europe. They calculated that. We're not gonna talk about a billion. Yeah, we're not gonna talk about a billion, but that 8 billion comes from there. It would have been completed by 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u59	Well, then we're gonna look up this report. I am sure you will forgive me for not knowing this by heart. I'll confess that immediately. My officials are now googling like crazy and are going to provide me with an answer. Of course, I can't say "googles." They're using an unnamed search engine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u60	I was expecting this question a little bit. I don't blame you for not knowing all this, but there are three studies that show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u61	If you're gonna walk, you can put the mask back on, Mr. Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u62	It's a whole different theme. Mr Schalk asked about the approach to Islamic terrorism; unfortunately, it is also very topical today. Of course, this requires a very wide range of measures. This varies from the commitment, including from the Netherlands, to the anti-ISIS coalition in Syria and Iraq. This requires a great deal of work from our police and security services, who, fortunately, have been able to intervene in a number of cases before attacks can take place. This illustrates, in addition to the attacks that have unfortunately also taken place in the Netherlands, how serious the threat is in the Netherlands. Of course, it also keeps in good contact with young people who may fall into extremism; the Islamic inspired is a very important one. You will always find this in the national threat overview. It could also come from other sources. This also means a strong hand towards the large majority, which is very benevolent and prevents a whole group from being stigmatized. The majority of the Dutch, whether Islamic, Christian or non-believers, are very benevolent people. You're gonna need that whole palette. This includes, of course, the sharing of information, partly behind the scenes, at European level, because it is the area of intelligence services or police exchange. Europe also plays an important role in this process, of course. This also means looking together for the opportunities you have to deal with, for example, foreign financing. It is also better to deal with this with a number of countries than national ones. Last Friday, Mr Grapperhaus spoke to a number of colleagues about this. So Prime Minister Rutte also raised it at the last European Council. So yes, we are not just saying that we are shoulder-to-shoulder with the countries that have recently been affected, we are also turning this into joint measures. Mrs Teunissen had another question about zoonoses and intensive livestock farming. I'm just a simple doctorandus, but my first assessment is that you can't say in general that there is a one-to-one relationship between zoonoses and intensive livestock farming. It depends very much on how to shape intensive or non-intensive livestock farming. The whole world is now looking for a vaccine. The first vaccine ever discovered was against smallpox and was detected by zoonoses. An English doctor saw that people who milk cows were immune to pox because they had cow pox. So that's a case of zoonoses that was very beneficial. That was not in intensive livestock farming, which was not there then, that was when milking cows somewhere in the English countryside, which illustrates that it had more to do with the distance... The chairman is looking at me hard right now, because this is his job, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u63	No, I'm looking at a number of members who risk being infected because they don't both wear their masks while they're less than a foot away. That's what I'm worried about. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u64	I was just about to say that I will hear from the chairman what my grade is for the zoonosis exam. So I'm just gonna finish my review.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u65	We agree in this house that they have not graduated until they have been promoted. But you're a little too modest. I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u66	One last word on this. In intensive livestock farming, of course, the risks of large-scale contamination are greater. But at the same time, your ability to take measures, such as shielding, preventive measures, is also greater. So I don't think you can say in general, "That was the question "that intensive livestock farming leads to more or less zoonoses than not intensive livestock farming."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u67	I am not a medical specialist either, but I think it is well known that a number of large-scale infectious diseases were originally caused by contact with animals. It's animal diseases that have crossed over to humans. A number of leading virologists, such as Ab Osterhaus, say that if you keep a lot of animals together, like in the cattle industry, there is a high risk of virus outbreaks. Well, there are now. For example, the avian flu virus has re-emerged. That virus can mutate to a variant that can skip to humans and even be deadly to humans. That too has been known for a long time. My question to the Minister in my first term was whether attention is being paid in the preventive sphere to the risk that zoonoses can break out in livestock farming and be transferred to humans. This in the context of the prevention of future pandemics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u68	Sure. I've already indicated that zoonoses occurred before in history. It was precisely my entire argument that it is not purely linked to intensive livestock farming. But of course there is attention to that. I hope you will forgive me if this is more in the area of LNV's and VWS' colleagues than in my area. But it's an important subject. Finally, Mrs Teunissen asked about the names of plant-based products, following a debate in the European Parliament. The cabinet is relaxed in that. Mrs Teunissen rightly pointed out that peanut butter has existed for a long time. I was thinking coconut milk myself. Not that I'll ever put that on my hair, it's too late for that, but it's been called coconut milk for a long time. So I do believe that we should deal with that a little relaxed. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u69	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Frentrop on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by responding to Mr Knapen's reflection on the concept of sovereignty. I have taken note of the content of his speech in the course of the interruption. It was a little Orwellian. He insisted on some newspeak. He said: sovereignty must be called freedom of action from now on. I don't think so. I think sovereignty is autonomy, autós nomós, living under one's own laws. An example. The Netherlands is autonomous; we live under our own laws. Drenthe is not autonomous; Dutch law applies there. And at Amsterdam, we don't know. The second point I would like to raise concerns Poland and Hungary. We are now at the General European Reviews. The European Union is at a crossroads, but these two countries appear to be at the heart of the debate here. I would like to hear a warning sound about that. I think we should be careful what happens in those countries if we do not realise what the history of those countries is. For those who know something about history, the concept of autonomy is a rather heavy concept for Poland, and Hungary has been plagued for centuries by Ottoman domination, so they have a slightly different view of immigration policy. We need to be able to imagine that. We need to look at the history of these countries. A third point. I have noted a statement from Mrs Huizinga. She said: "The biggest threat to the European Union is Euroscepticism among citizens." I've decided I'm gonna think about it tonight if that's true. She said: 'The solution to this is that the European Union must communicate better'. I also heard from Mr Koole that he felt that the European Union should communicate better. He even wanted to make money for that. The latter seems a little superfluous to me, since the European Union has a large budget for propaganda and for media support. But what really appealed to me in his speech was that Mr Koole said: "The counter-sound must also be heard in the discussion. This should also be addressed in such a debate." That seems to me to be the case, but what does the case want? The President of this Chamber does not think so, because he said that the European Parliament should not be referred to as a fake parliament. Now I don't know where that rule is, and I don't know who made that rule. However, I will stick to it, although it seems to me that in a debate on the European Union there are some critical comments on the role, tasks and legitimacy of the European Parliament as part of the whole structure of the European Union, which seems to be likely to be improved. Speaking of improvements. Minister Blok has once again assured us that the 750 billion from the recovery fund, half loans and half gifts, will only be paid out if the countries that receive them actually reform economically. Last week, the Prime Minister said that these reforms are mainly about pensions and about the labour market; these are the important areas. If we look at the Netherlands, we know that labour market reform is still here with the Borstlap Committee. It's been going on for a while. We have been working on pension reforms in the Netherlands since 2008. I believe that it is likely that Italy will reform faster than the Netherlands will exclude, so I think that the benefits from the fund will take place at the end of the day. Then there is the second most important point of my second term. I asked the Minister if there was any money left from the previous MFK. Yes, the Minister said, there's 308 billion left. Well, that's quite a sip on a drink, because the amount was over 1,000 billion for seven years. So there's actually money for two years left. If an organization has so much money left, you'd better take a look at it first when she comes to ask for a new budget. If a housing corporation or a football association has a two-year contribution, you say: the new budget might be a little less. My conclusion is that this 300 billion was given away in the July negotiations in Brussels. This brings me to my most important point for the second term. Today, the Minister confirms that there is 308 billion left. And last week, at the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, I asked the Prime Minister about that. I asked for this because the recovery fund is lending 360 billion, and also for 390 billion in grants; I call it gifts. I looked it up in the Acts for a while. I shall first quote myself from last week's Acts, if you will excuse me. I said to the Prime Minister: "You just outlined the great picture of the seven-year budget and the fund on top of it. I wonder if there is any money left from the previous budget of the European Union. Did they already spend it all or did they have anything else that could have been used to support the economies of the more fragile countries?" I shall then quote the Prime Minister's reply. "I think there is a little left, but they are not large amounts: the rest à liquider. Of course you keep moving a bit along, but they're not huge amounts. Everyone likes to spend what they thought they could spend. Well, that's what we're like. But it's not in the order of 390 billion. The whole budget for seven years is about 1,000 billion. The one-off emergency fund of grants is 390 billion. You could never have gotten that out of what was left of the pot." Mr. Chairman. I have to say now that you almost could have gotten that out. With the 308 billion that was in the pot, we could have financed almost all of the donations from the recovery fund. I note that the Prime Minister last week, this Chamber, which adjective should I use? I would like to put it this way. And it's not about cat piss, it's about over 300 billion euros. I would therefore like to conclude my second speech today with the question of what the other parties in this Chamber think, and I am thinking in particular of the opposition parties. I'm curious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u71	I'm going to serve Mr. Frentrop at his beck and call. 'Cause, of course, it's interesting what he's saying. He says that there was EUR 309 billion left and that last week, in fact, we were put on the wrong track. Then you can actually conclude that we've been misinformed. If a room is misinformed, you actually have a problem. In misinformation of the Chamber, the party that finds that usually comes with a motion of censure. So the question is, what's the Forum for Democracy in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u72	I've given you my position. I would have liked to ask what the other opposition parties think of this, but I am, of course, holding back the possibility of such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u73	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mr Van Ballekom has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u74	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the questions. That is very much appreciated by my group and myself. I limit my second term to reflection, some comments and concerns, and a final question. First of all, the reflection. Mr Backer regularly talked about the negative picture that would remain because of the attitude of the Dutch government. To reassure Mr Backer, there is no polder method in the European Council and the Ecofin Council. It's just hard on hard. Everyone expects minister to stand up for their national interests. That's appreciated, too. So I interpret the coverage of this as part of the negotiating ceremony. Then there's a concern. Oh, perhaps Mr. Backer would like to ask me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u75	Do you mind if I respond to that? Mr Van Ballekom is giving me a lesson now about how things are going internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u76	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u77	I was concerned with the question of what the Dutch interest is. I think I've defined that more broadly than a penny issue. That's what the whole issue was about. The hard negotiations are fine; of course that must be done. I was concerned with the definition of Dutch interest. That's not a question, it's a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u78	I don't want to lecture anyone. I have negotiated the Delors I package. If I'm not mistaken, it was 1986. Those were the first MFF negotiations. That wasn't their name at the time. The Dutch interest is very broad, Mr. Backer. This also includes a proper distribution of the burden. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a worrying point. The Minister told us this afternoon in the first term that, according to his knowledge, the loans from the stability mechanism have not yet been used. That disappoints me very much, because that is implicitly a sign that the Member States do not want to submit reform programmes. The ESM support is linked to reforms. If after nine months no commitment has been made, I think it's a sign on the wall. That is very disappointing in my group's view. Mr. Chairman. A second concern is the rule of law. The minister said we could count on a growing majority to crumble the moment you become specific. That can be an annoying issue in the final approvals that still have to be given. We are somewhat disappointed by the innovative power of the new MFF and the greening. It's a matter of giving and taking. It's annoying and we would have wanted more, but it's still acceptable. I have a request to the government. This relates to the 308 billion referred to by Mr Frentrop. He said the Prime Minister misinformed the Chamber. That's incorrect, Mr. Frentrop. The Prime Minister spoke about payment appropriations. There is indeed very little left. But here we are talking about commitment appropriations. That's totally different. Therefore, my request to the government. I have not, to my mind, been disgusted, for that is a heavy word of sadness in the conclusions that the pre-financing rules and some other rules are being relaxed in order to get rid of the 308 billion as quickly as possible. I do not think that is a good thing, because this is at the expense of the quality of the programmes. If that were to be the case, would it not be a good idea to shorten the three-year scheme to one or two years? Then you will be rid of the problem in the future. For what, hear what, I'd say. That was my final point. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question that has not been answered in my firm conviction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u79	But your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u80	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u81	Your speaking time is over, but finish the question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u82	That one question that has not yet been answered, I would like to ask a moment. The question was: does the government have a problem with the fact that this Parliament will not ratify until everything in terms of reform and conditionality has been worked out to the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van Ballekom. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his reply, but I did say that I was hoping for some more real answers. Some points are addressed by the Minister, others are not at all. But I have sometimes missed the real answers to the questions at the points addressed. I would like to encourage the Minister to go into some more detail in his response in the second period. For example, I asked for a reflection on increasing nationalism in the world and a reflection on how to make the European Union more democratic. To be honest, I missed that reflection. Let me turn to the issue of democracy. I had an interrupting debate with the Minister about that. The Minister did not really go into it, but I had asked for attention to be paid to how the single market, with its one-size fits-all approach, sometimes creates obstacles to serving public interests in Member States. This was not only noted by my group, but also by the WRR and various other bodies. The question is whether we can do something about this by introducing more variety and flexibility in the development of the internal market. A very concrete example, to which I referred this year and last year in the General Reviews, is the European Procurement Directive, a directive based on the internal market and the rules of the internal market. The Minister then says 'pacta sunt servanda' and I am sure he will, but the European Procurement Directive is a directive that could be amended. It is, of course, a government policy to change it when it comes to social care. So who amazes me that the Minister does that by saying that this directive is there and that it is very difficult for us to change it? I'm really surprised about that. There is now a report ordered by Minister De Jonge, which states that this directive does not work. The directive exists in the context of the European market and in the context of competition. That then leads to efficiency, that is the idea. But there is no competition at all, because there are no non-Dutch providers in youth and home care. Minister De Jonge has repeatedly stated that he intends to come up with a real revision of that procurement directive. I note that this Minister is actually saying about his colleague that his efforts are pointless in advance. The Minister talks about his Europe strategy to exempt care and the social domain from the European Procurement Directive by revising the Directive or by any other application of the Directive. This Minister says to his colleague in advance: stop, because you will not get a majority for that. I am truly surprised by this and wonder whether the Minister is speaking on behalf of the whole cabinet. Then I also asked Mr Knot, and I received the same answer three times, but that was not really an answer to the plea made by the President of De Nederlandsche Bank, Mr Knot, for a further transfer of sovereignty in order to make the euro and economic and monetary union sustainable. The Minister responds in the vein of "I'll explain it again." You don't have to explain it to me. Like many others, I and my party have thought a long time about this. The question is what Mr Knot's analysis is, what is the solution he proposes and what does the cabinet think about it? Every time the Minister talks about the Stability and Growth Pact. He then says that this SGP should ensure convergence. But the SGP is not primarily about convergence at all. Convergence is not primarily achieved through budgetary discipline. Budgetary discipline is not the primary problem here either. A lack of budgetary discipline did not cause the euro crisis at the time either. That's a myth. I assume that the Minister, who keeps a good record of literature, is aware of that. What's the problem now? That is that there is real economic divergence in the European Union, or in the euro area. Let us look at one of the indicators of divergence. That is not budgetary discipline or the budget surplus or deficit. That is the current account deficit or surplus. In southern Member States affected by the euro crisis, the current account deficit has increased from the year 2000. That's not entirely coincidental. What happened in the year 2000? The euro was then introduced. That's when you see the divergence. This divergence arises from the introduction of the euro. There are a lot of economists, I say to the Minister through the President, who have shown this in analyses. The question is, what can you do about it? The answer is that, unfortunately, these Member States are no longer able to devalue because they no longer have their own currency. So they have to devalue internally, as economists call it. That means they have to lower wages. That means they're actually going through a recession. I'm not just saying this. These are analyses of, for example, Mr Knot. He says that in his Schoo-lecture. This also says Martin Wolf, the well-known economist and columnist of the Financial Times. Like the Minister, I do read the Financial Times every day. My question is whether the Minister shares that analysis. Then what is the solution direction? All the Minister says is: stability pact, stability pact. But that is not a solution to this problem. Mr Knot says that the solution to this problem is a political union. As the Minister does not go into that further, I note that the Minister obviously agrees with that conclusion. If that's any different, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. I'd like him to take a look at that analysis. In fact, I did not have an answer to my question about what I called the sneak militarisation of the European project. Are we moving towards one market, one currency and one army? The Minister will undoubtedly say that this is not the intention. I asked him about his analysis of the political force field. France has argued that we need a European army. In Germany you also hear that sound to an increasing extent. How does the government feel about that? Is the government gonna hang on to the brakes, yes, no? I see my time is up. Finally, about Moria and the terrible fate that has hit the people in the refugee camp, and the political cow trade that was then formulated as a response; political cow trade with people, in this case. I can only observe that it has not been visible on the Minister's jaws today, to my disappointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I shall now give the floor to Mr Backer on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for his reply. I respect his stamina, because he is actually holding non-stop debates in two Chambers. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, Jean Jaurès' letter was read to the teachers in all French classrooms. That is symbolic for two reasons. Jean Jaurès was a teacher himself. We're talking about the time around 1900 when he was murdered as leader of the socialists by a nationalist. He was a defender of Dreyfuss. He was fiercely opposed to World War I and was murdered on July 31, 1914, by a nationalist who was later acquitted. In short, nationalism has always been and will always be there. He argued that teachers should raise their pupils at a level of civilization that transcends selfishness and indifference. And then I'm actually back to my first term: we should think bigger and pursue more virtues than just sobriety. I would also like to argue that this is something that comes up in the debate from time to time that we are trying to live in other countries. It is not for nothing that large Italian companies have holdings on the Zuidas. That is because we have a favourable fiscal environment here. And it is not for nothing that the Italians have a very large private savings account, while the Dutch have large private debts. I think it is a good thing that we sometimes highlight other sides. Mr Van Apeldoorn reminded me of the point of democracy, for which I am grateful to him. Of course we have to talk about that. If there is one group that is critical of this in Europe, it is our group. Nevertheless, it is still an effort to improve this. And there are always points of improvement. One of these points of improvement, Mr Koole also spoke about it, is communication. He rightly raised this point, not to communicate that everyone should pro Europe, but to develop the critical analysis. That's important. I made a comment about Arjen Lubach in the first term, but he did have a point. There is very little public space, a public media space that we talk about in Europe. We then have to go to international newspapers, but they are not European newspapers. I therefore support Mr Koole's motion to do something about this communication in the context of the conference on the future. Then I must hurry now, because I understand that time goes on. I come to the motion I would like to table on the issue of concern. We are not in favour of a change of powers, but merely of a pragmatic approach. I have to read the motion now, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u87	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u88	That's what I'll do. The President shall: Mr Backer, Mr Bredenoord and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that pandemic viruses do not comply with land borders and that European Union residents benefit from joint action;]] [[noting that healthcare is reserved for Member States;]] [[Whereas, in order to promote public health (public health), European coordination is useful and possible with regard to preventive measures such as joint procurement, exchange of expertise and vaccination;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the European Union to strengthen its role in "public health" and to examine how the European Union can shape coordination and cooperation on "public health" and inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-E]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point of net net. We have talked about the payment of net. The Minister has only come back to it very badly. I am not going to go into that now, but I would like to talk about the return payments to the Netherlands. The minister wasn't warm enough to do an investigation. I think it is extremely important for the consideration and for communication about it to do so. On this point, I have tabled a motion, which I will read with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u90	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u91	Thank you. The President shall: Mr Backer, Mr Knapen, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Vendrik, Mr Moonen and Mr Koole proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the decision-making framework of the Netherlands in the EU has shown the costs and benefits of Dutch membership of the European Union to be a very relevant factor;]] [[Whereas the last study carried out by the CPB was carried out in 2009;]] [[noting that the General Court recently noted that the examination of the actual basis of the benefits of membership could contribute constructively to the discussion, policy development and policy balance;]] [[Notes that the understanding of costs and benefits should be updated and, building on the suggestion of the General Court, should not be limited to the so-called net net discussion, but should be broadened and deepened to benefit from the broad concept of prosperity at the level of Dutch citizens, companies and revenue for the national budget;]] [[Calls on the Government to instruct one or more legal advisory bodies (at least CPB and CBS) to enter this investigation in the short term and to report the results to this Chamber no later than 1 March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u92	Mr. Chairman. I'm in injury time, but sometimes there's still a score in injury time. I'm not looking to score. I would like to conclude by wishing the Minister wisdom in the forthcoming discussions with his colleagues in the cabinet during this very difficult period of the pandemic, where important responsibilities rest on your shoulders, and with his colleagues in Europe, including on this issue and on the follow-up to the European summit in July. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u93	Thank you, Mr. Backer. Then I give the floor to Mr Knapen, who will speak on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u94	Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin by thanking the Minister. I have been pleased to follow how he has given a smooth tour d'horizon from subject to subject, for which I congratulate him. I have two things. I was gonna ask you a question. I didn't really get the opportunity to do that. I didn't get it until the second time. That question was about Italy. I would like to come back to that and I would like to say a few words about Hungary and Poland. I would also like to thank Mr Frentrop for his education in Greek: car, autonomous. I'd almost say you've got straight, heteronomy, too. We're not gonna talk about that. Mr. Chairman. However, I would like to share the concerns we feel about Italy. It's going to go to a 160, 166 government debt. When Italy joined the euro, of course, it already had a huge public debt, but it still had and still has a very small budget deficit. There's no other way to do that in that combination. Of course, there's a lot of philosophies about how that happened. Of course, Italy has been facing stagnant productivity growth for decades. The factors leading to this are varied. First of all, there is a high tax burden on companies. There is an inefficient civil service. It's a tough thing to do with permits. There's corruption. Lack of women's empathy with all its effects on the labour market also plays a role in this. Mr Van Apeldoorn says: it is all because of the euro. There's a difference of opinion on that. Outside the euro, of course, you can devalue at regular intervals, but that does not solve the problem of stagnant productivity growth. This is a problem that is going to take a lot of time. We are asking Italy for reforms intelligibly. We'll make that clutch. But the idea that you can realize that in one, two, three years is, in our opinion, a kind of mirage. That's not gonna work so fast, so that's where the government debt is gonna stand. If Italy were to switch to structural reforms, this level of public debt would continue to exist. This huge size remains a ballast on the leg of someone who wants to go hiking. So I'm wondering how they look at that. At some point we will have to deal with it. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Italy. We are always talking about Italy: Italy must do so and Italy must do so, because it may cause problems for the whole euro. But we must not forget one thing. Those who suffer most from lagging behind in Italy are the Italians. They have not had any economic growth since 2000, except for a few years. That's actually, in 20 years' time, dramatic. There is therefore every reason to look at Italy with a high degree of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u95	If you finish your story, I'll go to Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u96	Finally, I would like to say a few words about Hungary and Poland. This minister has repeatedly manifested himself as a man of international law. Not so long ago, the charge against Syria for human rights violations was witnessed. I think that, when it comes to Hungary and Poland, in order to outline it a little bit black and white, the approach of some Member States has been that they ultimately considered the budget to be more important than the rule of law. The same applies to the Netherlands. For this reason, the budget has been discussed for three or four days, and a few hours on the rule of law. It's the story of the shirt and the skirt. We can find a lot of that, riding the high moral road, but that's how it happened and it's not entirely incomprehensible that it happened. But that means that we need to fix it now. I trust that maximum repair work will be carried out. My advice would be: find partners for this, because only you will not get much further than to testify about your outrage. This gives a momentary pleasant feeling, but always leaves people in the cold. Having said that, I wish this Minister every success in the last part of this cabinet, also in the midst of all the great troubles that the cabinet and this country are suffering from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u97	Thank you, Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u98	I would like to comment on Mr Knapen's Italian point. This graph isn't entirely visible to him, but I'd like to send it to him through the app. The graph relates to the TARGET2 situation over the last month, which is the euro area's mutual settlement system. Italy now owes more than 600 billion, and that money is now all going to Germany. It is now far worse than in the crisis of 2012, so those divergences that other groups are talking about are really only further apart. It is going very fast, because the Italians are taking all their money out of Italy and bringing it in Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and I know where all of it is going. There is a huge flight of capital, because one does not trust the banking system, also because of the sovereign debt you call yourself. We have also talked about this in the first period, that this is going to be a huge problem. It's all going on right now. How does Mr Knapen see this? We are now a bit busy with the flight forward and kicking the can down the road, but this is going to run smoothly at some point. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u99	I can't predict the future either. My hunch is that this can only be solved through a game you've probably played as a child, and I'm sure: mikado. That's a very unstable stack of pens, where you pull one of them out without moving the others. I think that, in order not to cause any major damage, nor to do any damage in the role played by the ECB, we need, step by step, extremely subtle, but knowing what we want to get out of, namely until the last pen is taken off the table, to create some sort of road map to find an answer to that. If we do not, we will indeed run the risk of encountering major accidents somewhere along the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u100	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u101	Those lines below are Spain and the other southern European countries, so I fear that instead of playing a game of mikado, it will become more of a domino game. I think we should avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u102	Fear is always a bad counselor when you're gonna deal with this kind of problem. We are making, I would suggest to the Minister, a route for which we are going to show credible, authoritative and understandable to the markets how we are going to get out of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u103	Thank you, Mr. Knapen. Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for his answer, but I think he has accidentally forgotten a question. That question concerns the right of veto in the field of taxation and energy. So the question is: does the Minister intend to maintain the combination of taxation with energy? With regard to the corona repair fund, the Minister states that they are not actually loans, but that they are an increase in the ceilings. The fact remains that the EU will borrow 750 billion on the capital market. The Millions Note states that we will guarantee that fund in 2021 for 27.4 billion. According to the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Commission must have a balanced budget. Apparently, you can borrow an amount of money for which Member States guarantee. It has already been mentioned that this is somewhat inconsistent with the government agreement, whereby joint financing of the debts of the EU Member States is undesirable. It is said that we should not go on the road to Eurobonds. They are not really Eurobonds, but they are very similar. Then there is the social pillar. The Minister has already indicated that this will remain with the national parliament and that it would require a treaty change if this were to be changed. I am curious when we may see this coming to the Chamber in the future, because I think that opportunity is very real. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u105	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Koole on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions. I think it is a good thing that we have General European Reviews in this house at all. Europe is extremely important. That is why I think it is a good thing that we have had such a discussion, despite all the coronapericles. I also welcome the Minister's commitment that he will use all the other instruments that are possible outside that conditionality mechanism, for example in situations such as the inhuman zones in Poland with regard to the Ihbti people. I am less pleased with the government's view of Moria. This view has also been expressed by the Minister. I find it, along with others, a very poignant situation. A question on the Stability and Growth Pact has not yet been answered. The Minister says that the targets of 60% and 3% are in the Treaty. But even if they are in the Treaty, can the approach to it not be applied in a much more flexible way, different from one country to another? Can the level of debt and other matters be taken into account? This does not apply to each country the same reduction rate, but differs from country to country. Can this at least be applied more flexibly? Mr. Chairman. We have spoken on several occasions in this debate about the need to involve the public in Europe. Others have also spoken about this. It used to be called "most important," but in these corona times and in other times of crisis, Europe is extremely important. But Europe can only function well if the Member States work well, as the Minister said. Those Member States can only function properly if the public is well informed. When it came to the CO2 reduction, the Minister himself said that it was difficult to get the public with it. Mr Backer said that a critical analysis is needed. I have already quoted Mr Knapen. He was talking about a necessary discussion. I therefore call for a public debate ahead of the forthcoming conference on Europe, in which the government takes the initiative to inform the public properly. This needs to be done in a balanced way, including the counter-sounds, so that we can all have a good discussion about the future of Europe. This discussion should be conducted not only with the parliament, as the Minister pointed out, but also with the public as a whole. I've prepared a motion for that. I would like to read it now, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u107	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u108	The motion reads as follows: The President shall: Mr Koole, Mr Vendrik, Mr Backer, Mr Crone, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Oomen-Ruijten and Mr Huizinga-Heringa proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a conference on the future of Europe is being prepared in the European Union;]] [[Whereas it is very important that the inhabitants of the Member States are involved in that conference;]] [[Whereas it is very important that the inhabitants of the Netherlands are also well aware of the various intentions of the European Commission in these times of multiple crisis;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to start the public debate on this matter as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to engage in a lively, well-informed public debate on (the intentions of) the European Union and to promote the input and ambition of the Netherlands and to promote this discussion with additional financial resources, and to submit a detailed proposal to both Chambers of States General before 1 July 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-G]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u109	Thank you, Mr Koole. Would you put the motion to your right on the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u110	Mr. Chairman. My final sentence is that I wish the government and also the Minister every wisdom in these difficult times of crisis, both in Europe and in other areas. The Labour Party will always approach this constructively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u111	Thank you, Mr Koole. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u112	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad that the Minister has just addressed some of the questions I had asked in my term. He did answer most of my questions. I also think it is right that the Minister should say, in response to my quote by Mr Schout, that he leaves that pragmatically to Mr Schout. I'd rather say one step at a time. I agree, but what I did miss in replying to the Minister is as follows. A step-by-step approach is good, but you always have to know where you're going. You know that sometimes you don't get there directly and you know that it can take a long time, but you must have the direction of your steps clear. I also missed that point in the answer to my question about how we should position Europe and how the Minister sees Europe's position in the changed geopolitical world. So where are we going to go step by step? I would like to hear the answer from the Minister again. I missed that. Mr. Chairman. I support Mr Koole's motion. I even signed the motion because I also think it is very important that we make Europe more known and talk about it with the citizens. Only parliaments are not enough. We must make Europe known and give the citizen ownership of it. Finally. The Minister said little about the situation in the refugee camps. I'm sorry about that. There is little point in repeating that I do not think this is appropriate within the European Union, but I will say it again. I should like to conclude, as the speakers before me have also concluded, by wishing the Minister every success in this difficult and difficult period in which the cabinet must show us the way. Mr President, that was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u113	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I would like to give the floor to Mr Vendrik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u114	Thank you, Mr President. As far as I am concerned, there are two further questions that I would like to put to the Minister, just in case. I asked later about the Frontex actions in Greek waters where refugees were pushed back to Turkey at sea. My political colleagues in Europe have asked questions about this. The European Commission said that it is not responsible for this. My question to the Minister is: how about that? Who is responsible for the actions of Frontex, for this form of border surveillance? Mr. Chairman. The second question, which I believe is still open, concerns the application of taxonomy as agreed at the end of last year as part of the sustainable finance agenda and its application to the recovery fund. I am trying to understand whether taxonomy, with the support of the Dutch Government, is indeed a starting point for application to the recovery fund. That makes sense to me. This is the best way to ensure that the use of funds from the recovery fund meets the European Commission's ambition to achieve a green and just recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u115	The mic's not working. I'm at my tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u116	That could be right, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u117	We were talking about communication with the public. There may also be people following this debate. Can Mr Vendrik explain what taxonomy is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u118	That's real policy language. Taxonomy in this case is literally a language designed for the financial sector, which describes how certain investments can be classified for sustainability. A fairly comprehensive system of this is now available. If appropriate, this will be made available to the financial sector, with certain obligations to report to the public through that language so that everyone understands the degree of sustainability of certain financial products. It is a beautiful dam that is raised against greenwashing. The question is whether this is not very useful, yes, my group would say that it is necessary to set up the recovery fund. That would also be a very nice plus on the importance of this taxonomy operation. It is important not only for private capital but also for public investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u119	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u120	My final point. In doing so, I think I will take over the stick of Mr Knapen, who just spoke about three and a half days of negotiating money and then think in a few hours about the value of the rule of law. This is where the leg needs to be pulled back a little bit. I think I should help the cabinet with the next motion. The President shall: Mr Vendrik, Mr Rombouts, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Koole, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Backer, Mr Huizinga-Heringa, Mr Teunissen and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rule of law is under great pressure in several EU countries;]] [[Whereas a link between the EU budget and the Restoration Fund and respect for the rule of law is essential in order to protect the rule of law as the basis of the European Union through a rule of law mechanism;]] [[Whereas the proposed inactivity clause, where the Council has three months to adopt an approval decision after which there is tacit approval, may prevent endless delay as may be the case under Article 7 procedures;]] [[Whereas the European Council has taken a position in the negotiations on the draft MFF Rule of Law Regulation which limits the scope of conditionality to fraud, corruption and abuse of the EU budget and has set a high threshold for the decision to apply the mechanism;]] [[Considers that an effective rule of law mechanism in the forthcoming MFF should at least include the protection of independent justice and democracy, fair elections and a free press, and a decision-making procedure that ensures the effective use of this mechanism;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts in the Council to ensure that the outcome of the trialogue meets the above criteria, including inactivity clause, and to consider its outcome well for the approval of the MFF,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u121	Mr. Chairman. One further point for further explanation of this motion. In the debate just now, the Minister said 'there was a vote on it; we took a minority position', as if that was the end of the line. That vote took place and we understood it that way. That is the position, as described in the motion adopted by the European Council. But the game isn't over yet. As far as my group, fortunately supported by many colleagues in the Senate, is concerned, the signal to the European partners must be strong, loud and clear: the foundations of the rule of law as a basis for European cooperation cannot be undermined in terms of this senate. It helps the government to express this message so explicitly in this motion. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Gerbrandy on behalf of the Independent Senate Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u123	Mr. Chairman. I asked for one minute's speaking time. I would have liked to ask two questions. The first concerns the 8 billion grant to the fossil sector. We just talked about that. The second concerns the greening of agriculture. I asked if we've learned anything. Because in 2014 the common agricultural policy agreed that there would also be greening. Hardly any of that has come to pass. The ecological focus areas have been substantially knocked off. The question to the Minister is whether he can guarantee us that this will not happen again. Then he says, no, I can't guarantee that. Could he tell us how to prevent it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u124	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. In less than a minute. I call Mr Otten on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I put the graph I just showed Mr. Knapen on my Twitter. So the people who couldn't see it before can check it out there and startle how bad the situation is. Mr. Chairman. I have a few short points. One point that the Minister has not yet fully dealt with is the aspect of the transfer union. We have, of course, talked about Eurobonds. The Minister says that the recovery fund is not a eurobond, but it is, of course, a transfer union, because of the 750 billion no less than 312 billion is made up of gifts. We would like to hear a little more about that from the Minister. One aspect that is also underexposed in this respect is the Green Deal. Because 30% of this amount goes to the Green Deal according to Article A21 of the decision-making process. How exactly are windmills going to solve the corona crisis? That's not entirely clear with us. I would also like a little more clarification from the Minister on that point. Finally, Mr President. The European Commission has indicated that the Netherlands itself cannot have access to the money if there are not enough reforms. We talked about that, too. We have not yet received a proper answer from the Minister. Among other things, it has been indicated from the European Commission that the mortgage interest rebate must be adjusted before the Netherlands can avail itself of this fund. Can the Minister promise that this will not happen and that we will still have access to the fund? We were not in favour of this fund, the EU's 750 billion recovery fund, but now that it is there, let us at least get as much money out of it as possible and as quickly as possible. Can the Minister promise that this will happen without short-term adjustments on the front of the mortgage interest rate deduction? Because here we see a kind of catch 22, a kind of square circle: you have to reform or you don't get money, and if you want the money, you have to reform. How exactly does the Minister see this and can he make a commitment about it? That is what we have done for the second term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u126	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Schalk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to correct something that was raised in the first period. One of my fellow Members, Mr Van Apeldoorn, told me that the Eurogroup of the SGP would have supported the Ihbti-free zones in Poland. He has undoubtedly noticed that I was shocked and also said: that cannot be true. Of course I checked with my colleague Bert-Jan Ruissen. His reaction is crystal clear: it was fake news, a slander campaign, crafted by someone with an old SGP logo. What was really going on? Although it was a resolution criticized by Poland for those zones, the resolution in question called on all countries to recognise homosexual marriage. I am sure Mr Van Apeldoorn understands that a SGP cannot agree to that. So that was the situation that Mr Van Apeldoorn was referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u128	Just for the record, before I'm accused of trying to spread fake news: I didn't say that the SGP Group supported the creation of lhbti-free zones, I think it's a terrible word to get out of my mouth in Poland, but that it didn't support the resolution that condemned it. That was my point. I think I read that on the real SGP website, arguing that those lhbti-free zones are also about banning lhbti-ideology. The suggestion was that the SGP could actually support the expulsion of the lhbti-ideology and that lesbians and gays would be equally welcome. So that wasn't about gay marriage. I will read the resolution again, but I wanted to correct that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u129	Very good. Let me make it clear that my colleague from the European Union indicated that this resolution was therefore about the subject I mentioned, namely the recognition of gay marriage. Everyone understands that the SGP cannot say yes to that. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. With regard to the fight against extremist terror and jihadism, I think the issues he has all mentioned and the joint measures that are being implemented at European level are very good. It is also good to hear that Minister Grapperhaus spoke to his European colleagues immediately last week after that horrific act in Nice. As far as the resolutions are concerned, an IHRA motion has been accepted in the House of Representatives. The Minister has clearly indicated how he deals with this. However, a motion has also been adopted which has asked the government to take an active position in the UN against Member States disproportionate to Israel and to reject unjust motions. It was supported by VVD, PVV, CDA, D66, ChristenUnion, 50PLUS, FvD and of course the SGP. The Minister has clearly explained the way in which votes are sometimes chosen for abstentions. In any case, this should not be the case if the polarisation is sought knowingly and knowingly. Hence the next motion, which I would like to table. The President shall: Mr Schalk, Mr Van Ballekom, Mr Frentrop, Mr Huizinga-Heringa and Mr Faber-van de Klashorst proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU is based on the premise that Jerusalem is a "holy" city for the three monotheistic religions, including Judaism;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, in accordance with the Van der Staaij motion (34775, No. 44) to take an active position in the UN against countries disproportionate to Israel and reject unjust resolutions;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against all UN resolutions referring to the Temple Mount with only the Arab name "al-Haram al-Sharif" and to encourage other EU countries to do likewise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u130	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u131	That's what I'm asking for for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u132	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u133	I do not have a substantive question to Mr Schalk, but a procedural one. Did he open his point on the motion by stating that this motion had already been accepted in the House of Representatives? That's when we're gonna be doing a double job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u134	No, sorry. Another motion has been accepted, which calls on the government to vote against all kinds of things that are going on against Israel, I shall say very briefly. And this motion, after that, deals with a particular aspect of it, namely that which has to do with Jerusalem as a "holy" city. I now again point out with my hands that that is in quotes. Otherwise, of course, Mr Backer would be right, because we should not be putting the same motions back in here a few years later. That is not the way my group operates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u135	Thank you, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u136	I should like to thank the Minister once again for what he has given us and to wish him wisdom and God's blessing in his particularly difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u137	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, Mrs Teunissen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u138	Mr President, thank you very much. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. My group still lacked a clear answer on two points. I will try to ask the questions in a clear way. First of all, the Minister mentioned the new common agricultural policy as a step in the right direction. He didn't go into that very extensively. He was referring to the greening of agricultural policy. As far as my group is concerned, we still have a problem. That is that the sustainability requirements associated with this new policy, especially those 20% to 30% greening, are not strictly defined at all. In addition, 70% to 80% of the budget continues to go to intensive agriculture. There is therefore a chance that this policy will not comply with the Paris Climate Agreement. So my question to the Minister is: are there any steps the cabinet is considering bringing the common agricultural policy into line with the Paris agreement? Then, Mr President, the second point, the dairy names. My group welcomes the fact that the cabinet has said that it can deal with this relaxedly. That's hopeful. But my question was a little more specific. Can the Minister, in all this relaxation, also promise that the Netherlands will not participate in banning those dairy products which have a plant origin? Will the Netherlands not ban the dairy names of non-animal products? Mr President, those were my points. Finally, on behalf of my group, I would like to wish the Minister every success and wisdom in dealing with the corona crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mrs Teunissen. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to questions from the Chamber or would you like a suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u140	The Chamber has been so good as to give me wide-ranging motions. In doing so, the precise assessment is very close. For example, I do not know how many resolutions are being tabled on Haram al-Sharif. So I really want to be able to have a talk about what it means to always vote against it, because that has consequences. I really need time for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u141	You'd like a ten-minute suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u142	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u143	I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the many Members of Parliament who have spoken with appreciation of my attempt to answer all your questions in the first term. I realize this hasn't always been a complete success. Here is also the very practical point of a lot of questions and a clear amount of time. I'm going to try to answer the remaining questions, but it might be a little bit more concise in some areas than the subject deserves. Mr Frentrop once again referred to the balance of 300 billion and suggested that it might have been given incorrect information earlier. Mr Van Ballekom rightly pointed out that there is a difference between commitment appropriations and payment appropriations. Mr Frentrop assumes that the remaining money is, but they are actually open accounts. The system is also so stated in the Regulation "T" that it is allowed in this way. So there's nothing very special going on there. Mr Van Ballekom asks: should you not actually shorten the payment period from three to two years? That has indeed been the Dutch commitment. Unfortunately, we haven't been able to realize it. Mr Van Ballekom asked whether this Chamber and the House of Representatives will receive the package of the MFF, including conditionality, the recovery fund and the own resources decision, once the total has been negotiated. That is indeed the way it should be done. Perhaps Mr Van Ballekom referred to this as a preliminary discussion in Brussels on whether the own resources decision could be submitted separately. Our approach has always been that it is one package. So that's how it's gonna come your way. Mr Van Apeldoorn is right that I did not give an extensive reflection on nationalism, but that is a huge subject, with very undesirable aspects. Think of the Brexit. Once again, we respect the outcome of the referendum, but we regret that this is the way the choice has gone. Think also of the attitude of Hungary and Poland. Some of you went into that. On the other hand, Mr Van Apeldoorn is not asking for more national powers in a number of areas where European powers now lie. I'm sorry, but that takes time, which isn't there right now. Mr Van Apeldoorn (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mr Van Apeldoorn on his excellent report. I have also said much more about Mr Knot's plea than you quoted. I have indicated that not only devaluation but also economic growth can be the response. I have said very comprehensively and from the bottom of my heart that I think Italy is a fantastic country with fantastic companies and fantastic people. It's not a natural law at all that the country grows so slowly. I see a lot of people nodding. I really said it. I regret that Mr Van Apeldoorn suggests that I did not say that. I also agreed on a European army, really. I have said that this is undesirable and that Europe must make a greater effort, but we will always need NATO for our defence. Mr Backer had a nice opening on the letter from Jean Jaurès and the task that also plays in Dutch education: how do you keep freedom of speech, different religions or the lack of a religion negotiable? He went into the position of Italy with high private savings. This is also linked to the different pension systems. We have very high savings in pensions. There are many holdings in the Netherlands. Partly because of the tax rules. We're looking at that critically. However, it is also, and this is a compliment, because of Dutch labour law, I have to say: company law and the accessibility of Dutch case law. This is one of the points of reform which the Commission points out. Mr Knapen also pointed this out. Access to justice in Italy is less long. Then I come to two motions by Mr Backer and others. The first motion by Mr Backer and others, the motion with letter E, calls on the government to promote the strengthening of the European Union's role in public health, and to explore ways of shaping it. If I may interpret the motion in such a way that it does not alter national responsibility in the field of public health, but is an additional effort of coordination and commitment to public health, I would like to leave it to the Chamber. The second motion by Mr Backer and others, the motion with letter F, invites the government to instruct at least the Central Planning Bureau and the Central Statistical Office to investigate the proceeds of the European Union and to report to this Chamber no later than 1 March 2021. I have difficulty with that in two areas. I have already indicated that I am very committed to the investigations that are being carried out. There are also many investigations. Some are recent, some are older; Mr Backer has a point there. I don't have the idea that there's a lack of research. In addition, the deadline set is very short. For both reasons, therefore, I must advise against this motion. Then I'll come to Mr. Knapen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u145	It's too late now. Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u146	Maybe I can help the minister. I can't change the date because there are several signatories. But suppose we interpret the motion in such a way that there is an effort to do so. I think the others will agree, but I will verify that later. But that would be my explanation. The explanation given by the Minister of the first motion is entirely as it is intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u147	Yes. The second motion with letter F already indicated that it would help in itself if the timeline were stretched. I must use scarce, highly valued people at the CPB and the CBS to do so, so I continue to dissuade the motion with all due respect, because I believe that we do have the information and that it clearly indicates the benefits of the European Union for the Netherlands. Then Mr. Knapen. He went deeper into Italy's debt position. He addressed the great challenge in many areas and the time it would take to make progress there. I fully share that analysis. Whether a sovereign debt is ultimately unsustainable is not a black and white outcome of its level in relation to the national product. It also has to do with the ability of the economy to grow and thus maintain the confidence of what is so abstractly called the capital market, but in the end, most of it is pension funds that invest their money in it, in the country's ability to ultimately repay the debts. Japan is a well-known example of a country with high public debt and yet a lot of confidence. So this height is very unhealthy. That is why the Netherlands has also fought in the recovery package to keep economic reform in place. That is still the logical way forward for me. I very much agree with Mr Knapen on the situation of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. Be sharp on that, but make sure you always form coalitions to be effective. Mrs Faber asked for the retention of the right of veto or, in other words, the maintenance of unanimity in the area of taxation and specifically energy taxation. The Dutch response to the proposals in these areas is indeed that the Netherlands is in favour of maintaining unanimity. I can assure you of that. Mr Koole asked whether the 3% and 60% could be applied flexibly in relation to the Stability and Growth Pact. I think the differences in countries are not so much in questions about deficit and public debt. I think they are part of the specific measures that a country needs to ensure that the economy is competitive and sustainable. There are differences. Again, there will be a new proposal with an appreciation, but I would look for the differences in what measures are needed for countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u148	My question was not so much whether the percentages should be applied differently flexibly in the Stability and Growth Pact. The Minister said that the percentages are in the Treaty. My suggestion concerns the approach route. I am concerned with the speed with which, if you start from the treaty, you get back to the percentages, and that this means that there are different levels of flexibility for each country. One example is that the rate of reduction of public debt per country may vary and that you are flexible with the rate at which it returns to 3%, depending on the specific situation of a country. So I am not talking about changing the percentages themselves, but about the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u149	There are two ways to do that. I would like to address the concerns that Mr Knapen and I share about Italy's very high public debt. One way is then to reach an agreement with Italy, economically speaking, to reduce that debt quickly. I do not think that is what Mr Koole means. It is, of course, also a very fragile discussion, because then you will have an endless handshake about different measures per country. I see more differences in the type of measures that are actually already covered in the country-specific recommendations than in this very fragile discussion. Then Mr Koole and a number of others tabled a motion with the letter G. It invites the government to engage in a lively, well-informed discussion and to promote additional financial resources for this purpose. I just ran into Mr Crone, but he's gone now. Mr Crone and I used to be financial spokesperson together. Then we were never allowed to file uncovered motions. However, there will be a reaction from the government to the plans for the conference on the future of Europe, which will include the proposals for citizen consultation. Actually, it's the easiest thing for me to do if you hold the motion. I will be able to include the answer in the response to the conference in any case. Then maybe I can see if it costs money at all and if I have anything else. If Mr Koole were prepared to do so, I might be able to meet him in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u150	It is, of course, a question of establishing the debate. The Minister is talking about an uncovered motion. There is no mention of a certain amount. It merely states that resources should be made available. That's all over zero. The point is, it's a real plan. That is the purpose of the comment on finance. That debate must be held. The purpose of the motion is precisely to ensure that you do not only have the public debate at the time when the conference on the future is about to begin, but that you have already served the public for that purpose, so that the debate on the future of Europe can be conducted much better and in a wider context. If that's what you're waiting for, it's too late. The motion suggests that the public debate should take place ahead of the conference on the future of Europe. I would like to ask the Minister whether, if I hold the motion, there is the possibility of doing so rather than waiting for the conference on the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u151	I was hoping to find Mr Koole on the link. There is a good chance that this conference and its implementation will in any case place us in the task that we would like to undertake in order to intensify communication. I don't think it makes any sense to do things in advance. Nor is it the case that there is no debate on Europe. I would very much like us to be able to agree that, as soon as we know how communication takes place in the context of the conference, I shall return to your motion. I'll see if there's any money in the washcloths. But we don't have to anticipate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u152	I'll take the suggestion. There are several petitioners, and I will consult with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u153	Mrs Huizinga appreciated my step-by-step approach. Thank you for that. She asked for a future view in the field of geopolitics. That takes a whole night, because it goes into scenarios. Of course, Europe must be strong internally in a number of areas: financial, foreign and security policy, including the qualified majority decision-making mechanism. But that does not in itself lead to a single target scenario. That again depends on what is literally happening in the United States, how much we manage to get the World Trade Organisation and the UN to function again. The Dutch commitment is clear. That is where I started my speech: to make Europe work well and to make other international organisations work so that we can play a greater role in the foreign sphere. Mr Vendrik asked me who is responsible for Frontex. That's how he summarized it. That is the management board in which all Member States and the Commission are represented. The Netherlands is therefore also represented in this. It has stressed the need for a serious investigation. It will also look very seriously at the results. I would like to return to taxonomy in writing. That is indeed a relevant and complex subject at the same time. So that's what a letter is about. Then there is the motion with letter H on the rule of law by Mr Vendrik and many others. He's asking for some explanation. It concludes with the operative part: calls on the government to make maximum efforts in the Council to ensure that the outcome of the trialogue meets the criteria. The maximum wager: yes. But there are a few specific points in the motion that are not going to happen again. The European Council has partly negotiated the rule of law conditionality. Not in detail, but in part. It offers no more space on a few parts you mention. That is because the rule of law is linked to the MFF, so on the financial side. The elements of fair elections and free press, however important, cannot yet be introduced. I would like to offer you maximum commitment in all other areas. On that note, I can leave the motion for a resolution to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u154	With all due respect, Minister, I have read those European Council conclusions. I've read a sentence and a half that says it's being worked out. So nothing's been decided. That is why we are more concerned than usual. There is no direction at all in the field of the rule of law. It needs to be worked out. That indicates that there is still ample freedom to set that up during the negotiations, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u155	I really don't agree with you. The fact that this is linked to the MFF means that there must be a relationship with financial management. In the case of independent justice, that is something that can be defended. I'm unbelievable for free press, but you can't make that link anymore. That's why I'm saying I can perform parts of the motion, but at least some parts aren't along this route. Mr Gerbrandy asks me whether I can guarantee that the greening of agricultural policy is now being achieved. I've already indicated that there's a step in the right direction. For the Dutch Government, there are certainly still things to be desired. The step that is now in it will be carried out. The allocation of resources is linked to greening. Mr Otten asked about the relationship between 30% for the Green Deal and the corona crisis. The relationship is that, as a result of the crisis, economic activity is falling dramatically, that public spending can give you a new impetus and that it is logical that you focus those public spending on priorities that you already had. That connection is certainly along that route. He then asked about the conditions for using the recovery fund. I have already indicated that this cabinet is only a clear period of government, because there will be elections in March. This cabinet has no intention of announcing new measures, whether they are mortgage interest relief or other measures. It is obvious that such measures should be part of negotiations on a government agreement, but that is something that follows from the logic of the democratic process. The Schalk came up with a motion on which I said that I really needed to see what its precise wording would mean. The motion calls on the government to vote against all UN resolutions referring to the Temple Mount with only the Arab name "al-Haram al Sharif." This is a very firm motion. It may well be that such a resolution contains such sensible things in other areas that you vote in favour of it, weighing everything up. The motion has been formulated so firmly that I must discourage it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u156	Thank you to Mr Vendrik, who let me lead the way. I hear the Minister say: we can't say anything about the deadline now, given the democratic process. But with all those Member States, there is an election somewhere at any time. So I don't think that's an acceptable answer from the Minister, to be honest. However, I would like a little more clarification on what needs to be done if we are to be eligible for the 6 billion from this fund. We cannot say that there are elections, so we are putting that on the long track. That is exactly what VNO-NCW warns of, namely that we will be a year behind on the rest of Europe. Could the Minister clarify that a little more clearly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u157	You will need to talk to the European Commission about the measures that may need to be taken. At the moment, I cannot judge to what extent this is the case for the Netherlands. But these are measures that are not currently included in the coalition agreement. It is therefore obvious, just before the elections, to say: shall we first organise elections and then form them? To be honest, this seems to me to be a very logical course of action in a democracy. The concern of industry about the lack of money available and the comparison made in this connection with Italy is flawed. Italy, which has been extensively discussed, is in a totally different financial position than the Netherlands. My colleagues in Economic Affairs, Social Affairs and Finance have put forward a whole package of support measures for much greater amounts than the 5.5 billion that we are talking about here. This means that the direct economic impact of corona can be overcome along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u158	That package contains all the arrangements for how to apply for that money. There's a lot of money being thrown into a pot. There are all kinds of procedures for applying for money for projects. Then you get an approval and then you get money. That's not my way of stimulating the economy. I would do that differently, by reducing charges or something, but this is how it was agreed. This is what the coalition wants. If you want that money fast, you have to follow those procedures. Then you can say that it's not convenient because you have elections and that you don't have time for them, but this is the deal that Rutte closed. So how are we gonna do that? The European Commission can say that mortgage interest rates must be adjusted, otherwise you will not get any money this year. Then it cannot be that we say: we now have elections, we now have no message. You're gonna have to deal with that. How will the Dutch government do that? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u159	Finally, the Minister on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u160	Mr Otten says: if you want that money quickly. The Netherlands is not in a shortage of money. We are really different here from countries that are struggling to attract money. That is why we have already been able to announce such a large package of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u161	We are not going to continue the discussion outside the microphone. I am looking at Mr Vendrik. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u162	I have two questions. I had to think about the Minister's response to the motion. The household question is: if the Minister responds in writing to my question on taxonomy, it would be very nice if the forthcoming General Financial Reviews were to succeed. They'll be here in two weeks. That would be very nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u163	For the Acts, I see the Minister nodding yes. It's been noted. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u164	My substantive question builds on what Mr Van Ballekom said. His surprise is mine. The Council has established a position. The Minister explained that the Netherlands did not get what it wanted. Now is the stage of the trialogue at which the Council and Parliament will explore the position further. Then the playing field is open. Then it also depends on the European Parliament what is on the table, so the Minister's remark that we have passed the point of, for example, the importance of free press and fair elections, I cannot see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u165	I have already indicated that I am also in contact with the European Parliament on the state of negotiations there. That won't surprise you. Over the past few years, I've been there on a regular basis. I also know along that line that those parts aren't on the table for the same reason I just indicated. It is about linking the rule of law to finance, the Multiannual Financial Framework. That link is easy to establish with the independent justice system. The issues you are now discussing are very important, but that simply does not make that link right. That discussion was held around the European Council. He is also playing in the European Parliament at the moment. Against that background, I give you this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u166	Then I will go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u167	The Minister was quite certain about the Schalk motion, because it contained the words 'all UN resolutions'. I heard him mention a few other examples in which he indicated that it would be different if he could interpret motions in a certain way. May I tempt the Minister to answer the question of what would be acceptable in this case? Now it's rejected because it's pretty rigid "all" in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u168	Then you could change the text to "as much as possible." That leaves open the possibility, if the rest of such a resolution is, on balance, very worthwhile, to vote in favour in those cases. I've already told you what our stakes are. The recognition of the Tempelberg was important for several religions and that only rubs with the name Haram al-Sharif.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u169	I will record with the other proposers whether we turn it into "as much as possible." I understand the Minister would then give the motion judgment Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u170	If it's "as much as possible," I'd give her judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u171	In that case, you will have to table an amended motion according to the appropriate procedure. You're aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u172	If I look at it that way, that means that I will be tabling an amended motion, because I can see that those who have supported this motion are in agreement with it. Thank you to the Minister for his benevolent way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u173	For the sake of clarity, are you aware that this will have to be done in a third time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u174	That's what I'm hoping to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u175	Finally, I come to Mrs Teunissen. It calls for the common agricultural policy to be brought into line with the Paris Agreement. I have already indicated that the negotiations cannot be reopened now, but that the packages that are still to be discussed were the example of the Van-Boer-to-Bord strategy, which is very logical to see whether they contribute to the achievement of the Paris objectives. In the case of the new packages, we will once again look very critically at them. In response to the question of which shelves of products may lie, I cannot make a very firm statement. You need to find a balance between honest information to the customer and avoiding unnecessary regulation. In this respect, I am relaxed in naming, as I indicated, but I cannot say in general what consequences this should lead to for the choice in which shelf which product should come. Then we really need to have a more specific proposal for us. Mr President, I hope I have also answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Minister. I understand that there may be a request for a short-term. Am I getting that right, Mr. Schalk? I understand you want a short third term. Can the House accept that request? That's the case. I now turn to the third period of this debate. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Following the debate we have just had with the Minister, I come with an amended motion. The motion I would now like to table is as follows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u178	The motion Schalk c.s. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the EU is based on the premise that Jerusalem is a "holy" city for the three monotheistic religions, including Judaism;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands, in accordance with the Van der Staaij motion (34775, No. 44) to take an active position in the UN against countries disproportionate to Israel and reject unjust resolutions;]] [[calls on the Government to vote against the UN resolutions referring to the Temple Mount as far as possible with only the Arab name "al-Haram al-Sharif" and to encourage other EU countries to do the same,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u179	I believe that this motion is still sufficiently supported, Mr President, but you are about to ask. By means of the motion, I mean that, as a rule, we vote against UN resolutions. I believe that we have given the Minister the opportunity to vote in favour of such a UN resolution in special cases, if that could be useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u180	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Is the submission of this motion sufficiently supported? That's the case. Then this amended motion-Van Schalk makes c.s. Part of the debate, point 35403, point J. I also note that Mr Schalk, on behalf of the other authors, has withdrawn the previous motion 35403, letter I. That is no longer part of the debate. That will be the end of the third term, unless someone else wishes to speak in the third term. Mr Otten wishes to speak in the third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u181	Mr. Chairman. I found the Minister's replies just now on the conditions for getting money from the recovery fund to be particularly unsatisfactory. That's why I'm still filing a motion. It's handwritten, given the short time. The motion reads as follows: The President shall: Mr Otten and Mr De Vries tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the EU Restoration Fund applies certain deadlines to claim funds;]] [[noting that the EU may require reforms from the Netherlands for granting funds, such as limiting mortgage interest rate deductions;]] [[calls on the Government to undertake that this will not be the case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35403-K]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u182	Would you put the motion on the right side of the table?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u183	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u184	Does one of the other Members wish to speak in the third term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u185	I would like to leave Mr Schalk's amended motion to the House's judgement. Mr Otten's motion contains a misunderstanding, namely that there is time pressure. I have already indicated to you that this cabinet does not intend to introduce additional measures, such as mortgage interest relief. But there is also no time pressure that requires us to come up with different positions before the elections. So I'm gonna advise against that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u186	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-03-eerstekamer-9.u187	I propose that we vote at the next sitting on the motions tabled. We have now come to the end of the sitting. I would like to thank all the Members and staff who made this meeting possible and wish you all well at home.
