ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is Ambulance Services Act, Room 35471.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has taken a long time and has taken a great deal of discussion before we are finally discussing this law today. We're finally gonna document today what ambulance care is gonna look like for a long time. I must say that I find it special to do so with this minister. It is a minister who has, of course, dealt with ambulance services more often in a previous role, but he is doing so in a different way now, as PvdA Minister in a cabinet the PvdA is not in. Mr President, you already asked why I signed up for 30 minutes. I see a lot of opportunities for doing very nice things today with, what I hope, a left-wing ally in a free right-wing government, for example, when it comes to taking market forces out of care, removing profits and so on. I shall come back to that in detail later. Let me start with the good news. The SP is very happy that after years of discussion the discussion or market forces will finally come to an end on ambulance care is now such a good idea. I am sure that at this time people can hardly imagine that there were ever people who were in favour of market forces in paramedics. They cannot imagine that in the event of a major virus outbreak, as we are experiencing at the moment, we would see companies that would have to register for the lowest amount to be able to transport patients from one hospital to another. Or that directors of ambulance companies are satisfied with how turnover is rising during the pandemic. In fact, that is something no one, no sane person, can imagine. The fact that ambulance services do not lend themselves to market forces has been said so many times in this Chamber. I quote from a debate in 2006. "The same applies to ambulance services as to emergency services. That's gotta be well arranged. And that means: no procurement adventures and no market operation with competing suppliers." I think people are thinking: Hijink will quote one of his famous predecessors, Agnes Kant or Renske Leijten. But no, such roaring lyrics came from the mouth of VVD-Kamerlid Edith Schippers. It may be, Mr President! No tender adventures, no market forces, she really said it. Look it up in the 2006 Acts. Now you are wondering: if these invitations to tender and market forces have such a devastating effect on the quality of care, why did Mrs Schippers not put a definitive end to it at the time she was Minister? If that's what you think, that's a good question. 'Cause it's a lot weirder. Just when the various scenarios for the future of ambulance care were examined and discussed here in this Chamber in 2006, Minister Schippers initially wanted to choose between two types of procurement: procurement by the minister or procurement by the health insurers. Market forces or market forces, those were the options that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet told us at the time. For another variant that had also been investigated, namely bringing the ambulance into public hands, the government did not support it at the time. If you asked, it turned out that there was no support for drivers. Because when we asked the ambulance nurses what they would want, it turned out that three quarters of the ambulance nurses, the paramedics, were in favour of ambulance care as a public service. And so you see: it's just who you ask and it's just who you're looking for support from. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is extraordinary that we are now discussing this law with this temporary minister, precisely because he was presumably in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, I do not know the building exactly one door further than Minister Schippers at the VWS ministry. I honestly don't know. Maybe everyone there has their own wing or the Secretary of State is one floor down, but I imagine you have one door... I'll never get into the back rooms of the Ministry, Mrs. Agema. I don't know what you're doing in there. Who knows, there's gonna be elections. It won't be very long before we take over that ministry, I'm guessing, Mr. Chairman. What I am curious about is exactly what happened at the time and how this minister contributed to the discussion at that time. Why did it take so long then to establish definitively that tenders do not belong in paramedics? Has this variant to put paramedics in public hands ever had a fair chance? I also ask this question because caregivers prefer this variant, the public variant, so much. Mr. Chairman. Would we not have an ambulance in our country at the moment, of course, but imagine that we would not have an ambulance if, I think, no one would set up a system like we do now. We have 25 security regions. Each region has its own Regional Ambulance Facility, RAV. So far that still sounds very logical, but then every Regional Ambulance Supply appears to look very different. In many places, municipalities have set up an organisation. There are foundations in other places. Co-operatives come for it. B.V.s are coming for it. We all know the example of the firm Kijlstra in Friesland, where the director of the company that drives the ambulance is also the driver of the Regional Ambulance Supply. Everyone understands, of course, that this has grown historically, but whether it makes sense is a second. I would like to put that question to the Minister. If he could build the place from scratch now, would he choose the system that we now have? Does he think it is logical that in one region ambulance services are entirely in public hands, while in the other region commercial parties do the work? Wouldn't it make much more sense if ambulance services were just in public hands, with each security region having its own non-profit-making organisation running ambulance services? The SP Group believes that such a public institution can help to prevent many of the problems that are now caused by the gap between private and public. I am also curious about the possibilities for this minister, the minister who is a member of the PvdA. Despite the fact that this is not always a guarantee that market forces will be countered, it could well be that we are taking far-reaching steps today to take the market even further out of care. I wonder if the Minister is prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. I noticed that the CDA and also D66 have asked a number of very intelligent questions in the written input about the gap between the market and the government that we see everywhere in the care, including in ambulance care. One of these questions was whether, for example, the Minister took into account that a foreign party could go to court shortly, because she might want to drive ambulances in the Netherlands and that could not happen again, because the execution was granted for an indefinite period to the current providers. The idea is that the award is for an indefinite period, but since the system is so structured, there is still the possibility for a foreign party to register for part or all of the ambulance services. That's a strange thing to do. I don't really see it either that a taxi company in Greece thinks one morning: "Oh, you know what, I'm going to try to take care of the ambulance in Flevoland from Greece." It would be possible under this law and that is very strange. I also wonder if we would accept this in other emergency services. That at some point the FBI says, "Well, you know what, we should open a annexe in Eindhoven, a healthy piece of competition for local detectives." Or that you call the fire department all over the country, except in Drenthe, because that's where it was outsourced to the Feuerwehr. We can't imagine that, can we? Why did we organise this in this way? We see more parties struggling with the private arrangement of our healthcare system. See also the discussion about profit payments at hospitals that are now skilfully parked. The liberals want more market in care, but at the same time they feel on all sides that that is not right. I saw the questions of D66 whether or not ambulance services are an economic service of general interest. And whether the Minister does not get into trouble because it might be said from Brussels that non-emergency ambulance services might be an economic service that should be tendered. That would mean that you might have to cut up the paramedics, in a hurry and in a non-emergency manner. And that several companies could register for that. I can assure you that's going to cause a lot of trouble. The Minister is right to put this kind of bullshit right in the head. However, as long as we do not turn ambulance services into a public service, the discussion about more or less market forces will continue. In fact, the Minister also states that there is an opportunity for foreign providers to go to court to claim a piece of this healthcare market. My question to the Minister is: how real is that opportunity? Why is he letting this happen? Why not, when after 14 years we try to make a decent law, solve these kinds of problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u4	Mr Hijink refers a number of times to our questions, which we have asked in writing. He says the minister's gonna kick the crap out of that bullshit. Now, of course, we have not come up with these questions and those arguments ourselves. The Council of State has issued a rather critical opinion on this. I take it the SP has studied that very well. We are not concerned about that, but we are concerned about the fact that D66 is not sufficiently motivated on points and that we will have problems with the European Commission later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u5	And the question to Mr Hijink?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u6	Does Mr Hijink also see that risk, having read the serious criticism of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u7	Yeah, but I certainly didn't mean that cynical or anything. I really thought it was very sensible that such a request should be made, because that is, of course, exactly what I am trying to point out in this law. The Minister actually wants the cabinet to have that market operation out of it; it is clear from everything, but they do not dare to take the step that is actually needed. In my view, that is the major problem we are facing and which D66 has rightly pointed out. Could it then be that there will be a party from France, Greece, or anywhere else who says: 'Well, some of that transport is simply an economic service, and that is what we want to do?' They'll go to court and maybe get what they want. That's bad, 'cause you don't want to. We'd be forced to cut things up after all. That's something the SP certainly doesn't like. I would like the cabinet to deal with this in this law too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u9	Mr President, I will make a confession. The SP doesn't like market forces in healthcare. Or we really shouldn't have any of that. We don't like the idea of people making money out of other people's misery. Also, the idea that care would improve if all kinds of tasks were to be cut up, and we were just talking about it and being placed in private organisations, has not really proved to be a success in the past. We all know by now, after about twenty years of market thinking, that the public sector has not done any good. And that is also how this proposal is subject to a lot of discussion. Shouldn't there be a tender after all? Can't concessions be granted for ten years? That's what D66 asked. You're tasting everything: is it really necessary to get that market operation out of paramedics? Yes, it is really necessary to do so, and preferably with even more far-reaching proposals than they are now being made. Of course, we have to get rid of the market. You do not want providers to be in uncertainty every few years about whether they keep the tender. Because we know what that means. Investments aren't made because it's not certain you're earning them back. Cooperation with other organisations is getting worse, because you always have new providers and you have to be better than your competitors. Employees change employers every few years, while wages and conditions of employment decline slightly. We've seen that in public transport, too. Mr President, I would like to quote you: 'Any four years of public procurement means that a company has a very limited time horizon for staffing, investing in equipment, establishing partnerships and developing policies and products'. Do you know of this quote, Mr. Chairman? Yours! Very wise words, from 2006.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u10	That's what I just told the clerk!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yes. D66 spoke exactly the same words in the stenogram. I was a little concerned that the same thing was said literally one-on-one in the same debate, but forward, they also tabled a joint amendment and so on. So I can see why they were working together at the time. But they were very wise words. It is therefore very good that the current providers of ambulance services will be given this task for an indefinite purpose. What is a problem is that the different providers are very different. This may mean, for example, that one company's working conditions are very different from that of the other company, while people do the same work, and sometimes even do the same work in the same city. I wonder how the Minister looks at that, whether he thinks it is a problem or whether he does not think it is a problem. Of course there is one collective agreement, but does the Minister recognise that it matters whether you work with a public provider or with a private provider? That if there is or can be an interest in profit, that could be on terms of employment, on wages or on staff deployment? What differences does the Minister see? Is he gonna do something about that, too? With this law, the government explicitly chooses to freeze the current situation as much as possible in the law. The question is whether this is a choice for the best solution or a choice for the easiest route. For example, the Minister puts forward arguments as to why ambulance services should not be a public service, but we are not convinced of these arguments. The Minister speaks of continuity. Because, yes, where ambulance care should still be provided from an e.g., a switch to a public institution should be made. That, the Minister says, could lead to unrest. Which, of course, is the question. It's just the question of how you do that. If cooperation improves and working conditions are strengthened, it may not be too bad with this unrest. Of course, such changes require transitional periods. It brings that is the other side of the story.............................................................................................................................................................................................. There will be more unity in the way ambulance services are organized, rather than the patchwork we have at the moment. Financial considerations are entirely subordinate to providing the best possible ambulance care. Cooperation can further improve through widely shared common interests and goals. I ask the Minister how he looks at these considerations. Does he also see these advantages in relation to the mixed system we now have? The government speaks in this law of strong public guarantees to ensure the continuity of ambulance care. That makes it all the more strange that the Minister does not close the door to profit distribution in this law. How does he see the fact that one party is allowed to make a profit and pay out to the owners or shareholders, and other organisations are not? Doesn't that mean that, depending on your legal form, one ambulance organization can make a profit and the other can't? In the case of certain risks and excesses, the Minister wants to be able to impose demands on the distribution of profits in the ambulance sector. But my group, the SP, believes that benefits do not belong at all in healthcare, let alone in acute care. Money intended for care should also go to care, should be spent on care. Can the Minister tell us exactly what's going on with paying off profits in paramedics? Because we have been looking very hard for this in recent weeks, and we can find very little information about it. In the written reply, the Minister refers to SiRM's investigation into benefits in health care, but it is precisely the ambulance care that is hardly included in this report, because of the limited availability of annual reports. We understand that a large proportion of the regional ambulance services do not submit annual reports at all. And where reports are submitted, they are often not comparable at all. How's the Minister handling that? The striking thing is that when the discussion on the extension of the temporary law was held here in 2017, we had exactly the same conversation about the lack of information we have on the annual report of the RAVs and also on the companies operating under them. The question is, of course, how does the Minister intend to avoid risks and excesses if the very smart researchers are to be able to do so? I count on ourselves to do so: very smart researchers, and we ourselves do not manage to get all the information? Is the Minister prepared to find out exactly what is going on with the profits and annual reports and can he inform us about them? Mr. Chairman. The SP has tabled an amendment to make the distribution of profits impossible. Where money is left at the end of the year, this money should benefit the quality and accessibility of ambulance services. After all, the last thing you want, especially at a time when care is awarded to one provider for an indefinite period of time, is that the distribution of profits will also determine how much is invested in quality, personnel and equipment. Especially now, when everyone is concerned about what the corona crisis is going to do with the care premium, it is not to be explained that in a sector such as ambulance care we still allow benefits. We need to get rid of that, and we can settle that today, especially with a Minister of the Labour Party. About 2,300 paramedics are waiting for us every day to do their important work. Especially in recent weeks, we have seen how crucial their role is. And certainly, I am not going to deny that in any way: besides the nurses there are thousands of others without whom ambulance care would not function, think of the drivers and all the others with a medical background, at the emergency room and elsewhere, who maintain the ambulance care. The paramedics criticized when this bill came out. The SP Group can very well imagine this criticism, because the feeling that these nurses have is that their entire profession has been pulled out of the law with a stroke of pens. In fact, of course, they are right about that. If we look at how ambulance care works at the moment, then you can say that the ambulance nurse is the backbone of the ambulance care, without failing others. Because about 90% of the immediate care personnel on the ambulance are paramedics. So it's not that crazy that we're giving this paramedics a place in the law. The SP believes that the ambulance nurse is appointed with title and already in the law. Not above others, but alongside all the others who work in paramedics. Mr. Chairman. We have worked several times on our amendment so that it can be incorporated into the law. In the latest version we have also found a good balance in how we do justice to the position of the ambulance nurse without having to do anyone short. I am also pleased that this amendment has now been supported by a large part of the Chamber, both coalition and opposition. As far as we are concerned, the profession of ambulance professional remains in the law, especially that of ambulance nurse, because it belongs to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u12	My group has also supported Mr Hijink's amendment. He said something about that himself, but I'm going to ask him one more time to say it in full. There was some concern about a number of wordings in the amendment. If I understand correctly, Mr Hijink also says in his amendment: "There are several functions that are all vital in that ambulance care. We would also like to focus on the ambulance nurse. At the same time, we see that the driver, the passenger, all the possible roles there are, are also extremely important and that this amendment does not change anything about that." That's how I'm supposed to interpret it, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yes. I think Mrs Ploumen sums that up just fine. We have been working on this amendment several times for a reason, because it was written down in the first instance just a little too rough. It was certainly not, in any way, the intention to destroy anyone with that. I also heard him say that a lot of people would have to get off the ambulance. That is certainly not our intention. Our intention is precisely to give that ambulance backbone a place in the law, without anyone failing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u14	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u15	I would therefore like to hear whether the Minister is prepared to endorse and support this amendment. Finally, the SP has tabled an amendment. The purpose of this proposal is to change the name of this law. That may be a little unusual, but we thought it was necessary in this case. The law is currently called "Ambulance Services Act." When I read that a few times, it hurt my eyes a little. But also a little on my ears when you listen to it. 'Cause it doesn't make sense somewhere. No caregiver, no ambulance nurse will say on a birthday: I work in the ambulance. You're not gonna be working in the GP either. You're not going to the bread supply; you're going to the bakery. It must be clear what a law does and for whom it is intended. And it has to be clear that it's about care. We have therefore considered it important to table an amendment on this issue. People don't work in care for nothing; they do it with heart and soul. The campaign that the government itself is now running is called "I care." It's not called "I foresee," it's called "I care." We would say that this should also be reflected in the law. My final question is therefore: is the Minister prepared to amend this law so that it is clear to everyone that this law is about ambulance care and not just about facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. Thank you for studying the legislation of 2006. That is important, I think, in the treatment of laws. Very good. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ambulance care is crucial for the entire acute care chain. Good, fast and adequate ambulance care is necessary in order to help people in an emergency in a timely manner and to transport from A to B if they cannot move themselves for medical reasons. The CDA is pleased that we can finally come to a final order of ambulance care with this bill. After all, it has taken far too long for politics to make a decision on this issue. We think it is a good development that this law also provides rest and security for employers and employees in the ambulance sector and for all chain partners in acute care. Mr. Chairman. This bill provides continuity of ambulance care by maintaining the existing practice. This will not change much for employers, employees, patients and chain partners. The CDA also explicitly supports the choice not to subpoena ambulance services, but to give the current and trusted providers an indefinite designation. This prevents unnecessary bureaucratic processes and possible foreign takeovers. We support what is being changed in relation to the current situation. For example, the Minister is explicitly responsible for the sustainable security of ambulance facilities and introduces rules to ensure more systematic monitoring of the quality of ambulance services. For the CDA, it is very important that this quality is guaranteed throughout the Netherlands, not only in large cities. After all, good care in the region is vital, including for the viability of the region. Timeliness is part of quality. The standard that, in an emergency, an ambulance should be with a patient within 15 minutes at 95% of journeys is also important for the region. Last year, as a CDA, we regularly drew attention to the fact that this standard is not being met in several regions. The Minister's overview shows that only 2 out of 25 security regions meet the standards. In some regions there is an improvement, but in others the percentage of journeys even decreases within 15 minutes. Is there any sign of improvement? If not, what extra is needed to realize it? Mr. Chairman. In addition, the standard applies to the security region as a whole, thus giving an incentive to focus on achieving driving times in larger cities within the region. In the written answers to our questions on this subject, the Minister states that he does not consider the addition of a substandard per municipality to be desirable. In his view, this would be an additional standard which was not scientifically substantiated and which would not benefit quality. But elsewhere he explicitly writes that timeliness is part of quality. Can he explain that difference again? Mr. Chairman. I told you before, you can't cut it with scissors. But there are also examples, such as Gennep in Limburg or Putten in Gelderland, where you can really see huge differences. The average is 95%, but you can see huge differences. Ambulance care The Netherlands is currently investigating whether there should be more differentiation in the triage: not only two levels of emergency care, namely acute and non-articulate, but even seven levels of urgency. What driving times in such a system are part of the first three emergency levels? What standards are going to be observed for this? Can the Minister guarantee and justify that this change is aimed at maximising quality and not at lowering standards? The impact analysis of this new urgency format would be ready before the summer. Can it be shared with the Room? What about the intention to set up a single emergency number for all emergency services? The CDA asked questions about this in the budget debate for 2020. What we also get from the ambulance world is that the administrative burden is proportional. With regard to these seven levels, we would like to draw the Minister's special attention to this. We would also like to have a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. In those regions where standards are not met, people are worried about getting the acute care they need. That's not acceptable to the CDA. If people can't get close to care, can we make sure care gets close to people? Is the Minister prepared to use the ambulance services to see if there is a possibility of purchasing a micu, a mobile intensive care unit, where the driving times are not structurally covered by the standard? If care cannot be with the people in time, then you can make sure that there is always a bit of care with the people around. Mr. Chairman. During the corona crisis, we saw how important it is to work with neighbouring countries. Thanks to the help of German intensive care, Dutch care has been prevented from being flooded with too many patients. Good cooperation is also crucial for cross-border ambulance transport. Residents at the border must be sure that cooperation with the German and Belgian suppliers is well arranged. It is good to read that the Minister writes that there has been good cooperation for many years and that agreements have also been made at regional level, protocols have been signed and when which ambulance is to be used. The mutual recognition of the powers of the paramedics is still a matter of concern. A round table would take place on this subject this spring, but because of the coronavirus, it is understandable that it has been postponed. We are very curious whether a meeting will be held, perhaps digitally. Can the Minister state what the agenda for that meeting will be? Is it the objective to remove all uncertainties and can this also have consequences for legislation in the Netherlands? Is the Minister prepared to keep the Chamber informed? Mr. Chairman. As mentioned above, the CDA is in favour of non-contracting and of an indefinite designation for current providers. This gives peace in the sector and also makes it easier to make long-term investments. But we're still concerned that you're running the risk that the provider will sit back and invest too little in quality, innovation and a learning culture. Further steps are being taken in the coming years to improve quality, including by setting quality standards in ministerial arrangements. I think both the Minister and the Chamber should keep their finger on the pulse. That is why I tabled an amendment together with the VVD, which requires an evaluation to be carried out in a few years' time to look precisely at the issues of learning culture, innovation and quality assurance. I would ask the Minister to respond to the amendment. How is it ensured that new quality standards will be developed even after 2023? Last December the quality framework ambulance care 1.0 was offered. The sector is moving towards a quality framework 2.0 with final standards, i.e. by 2023. It is good that the whole sector, the patients, the employees, the employers and the health insurance companies take joint steps in this regard. We do believe that it took a very long time for the first quality framework to come. We are glad that there is movement in it now, but there is still a great deal of delay in setting up the quality register. A few years ago, a quarter-hour maker was set up. In the meantime, he has drawn up a draft opinion, which will be subject to administrative coordination after the summer. The Minister writes that once the report is available, it is intended that quality registers will be eligible for structural funding in the future. Therefore, parties in the field will need to jointly consider what new quality registrations should be made. Can't that process be accelerated? Or can we at least set a deadline for that quality register to exist? The Minister writes that it is not up to him to impose a certain quality record. It is well known that as a CDA, we would like to impose much more quality registers, but can the Minister at least steer in the speed of the process? I'd like a response. I would also ask the Minister if he can inform the Chamber annually of the steps taken in further improving the quality of ambulance services and promoting the learning culture in the organisations. When the temporary law was extended, the function name "ambulance nurse" was deleted from the law. The CDA then tabled an amendment to retain this function name, while remaining able to work with other ambulance care professionals. That amendment did not make it at the time. Another amendment is, by the way. I talked to Mr Hijink about this today. Can the Minister indicate what experience has been gained in recent years and since when national quality frameworks have been used, which sets out at what level which care question is considered to be a good care? Is it true that these quality frameworks were drawn up in conjunction with the field? The function and the corresponding expertise are now regulated in a ministerial arrangement. Can the Minister explain why a general measure of governance has not been chosen so that we as a Chamber can take part in the decision? Can the Minister at least promise that possible future changes to the ministerial regime will only be made on the basis of national quality frameworks jointly drawn up by employees and employers and can he promise that the Chamber will be informed about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Van den Berg asked the Minister why a ministerial arrangement was chosen and not an AMvB. I tabled an amendment on this at the time, because, like Mrs van den Berg, I believe that the Chamber should have maximum input. This can be done through a general measure of governance. I would like to invite Mrs van den Berg to submit my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u19	I have now asked this question. I would very much like to hear the Minister's answer. Maybe he's got some very good reasons for it that I can't see right now. So I'd like to hear the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u20	I can't imagine there's a reason more important than maximum influence of the House of Representatives, but we'll hear about it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u21	I'm going on. The CDA considers it important that, in addition to the "ambulance professional," the function name "ambulance nurse" is included in the law. That is why we have co-signed the SP amendment. In the written reply, the Minister states that it is not obvious in the system of financing that ambulance carriers are going to make excessive profits and that there is little financial risk. Can the Minister explain that again? Because the CDA thinks that money for care should really stay in care. I'm coming to the end. It is good that this law finally clarifies the whole ambulance sector. It is a stark contrast between the long time that politics has taken to make a final decision and the speed that we often expect from the paramedics. However, on the speed with which the officials of the Ministry have answered the large number of questions, we would like to pay tribute. Here's to it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. I shall first give the floor to Mr Raemakers and then to Mr Hijink. Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u23	About procurement. Minister Hugo de Jonge has been working for three years to ensure that tenders in the youth care sector are no longer needed. So far, this has produced little results. The line from Europe is still that there is a need to tender for different forms of care, unless NEDAB is involved. That is what Mrs van den Berg has read in all the documents. The Council of State is very critical of this and says that it is very uncertain whether this can pass the European Commission's test. So I was very curious whether the CDA shares D66's concerns in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u24	We have also asked explicit questions about this. We've asked, among other things, if the state's attorney has looked into this. That's the case. In any case, we want to support the Minister in the choice that has now been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u25	We asked the same question: what exactly did the national attorney advise? It's a good thing you at least share that question. I understand the CDA says it supports the line. My question is: if you look at the legal risks, do you think that the proposal is sufficiently motivated at the moment? Are you telling the Minister that a number of questions that lie there, for example, about the inseparability of scheduled ambulance care and emergency ambulance care, are all sufficiently motivated now? Or do you think the Ministry could do some extra work on that? In the end, this is only good for ambulance services, because we do not want it to turn out in three years' time that it is not allowed by the European Commission and that we still have to tender. So please respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u26	Quite rightly, Mr. Raemakers is asking about the separation between the planable and non-planable care. From a legal point of view, this has been looked at in more detail. I think that the Netherlands can explain this well now. I believe that the Minister has sufficient arguments at the moment, should questions be raised from Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u27	Mrs Van den Berg says that money for care must go to care. I wonder if she is therefore prepared to support our amendment to definitively remove the profit distribution from the law. So if you don't, there's still the possibility that companies that work in the ambulance will pay out profits to their shareholders or investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u28	Two points on this, Mr President. Firstly, we think it is a nice amendment, but I do not think this is the place to deal with it. So I would like to keep this discussion for the outline note that we have from Minister De Jonge. In fact, I can imagine that we could have more fundamental discussions of this kind there. Secondly, I was reassured by the Minister's answer to the question about the possibility that an ambulance service could actually make a huge profit here. The tariffs are very tightly regulated and the NZa supervises them. The moment people see that there is apparently a lot of money left, there can also be something done with these rates. In this particular situation, therefore, I am not so afraid of it. That is why I asked the Minister to explain this further. We have the impression that money for care must remain in the care and that this is also guaranteed. We would like to have that explained by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u29	I find it a very strange argument that this would not be the time. Of course, this is the time, because we are making the law today. If there's one moment to get this settled, it's today. Today we make this law. We don't make laws in contour notes, charcoal sketches, or whatever we call all that kind of hard paper. No, we're making the law today. So if we're going to get rid of the profit distribution, we're going to have to get rid of it today. I think it's inappropriate, too. It reminds me of a reasoning we had this week about the appreciation of caregivers: yes, we do, but this is not the right time and not the right place. This is the right time. We have the law now. There's a potential list-taker from the CDA who says market forces need to get out of care. Then I can expect the CDA to say it right now: we are going to deal with that law, even if it is with a PvdA minister who is going to organise this for us. Isn't this the time to move on and get the profits out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u30	Mr Hijink rightly says what Minister De Jonge says: less market forces and more cooperation. As CDA, we support this more than 100%. I also argued in my own initiative paper that there should be much more cooperation. I think that cooperation with the ambulance service, as it is now being set up, is the whole point of departure. Once again, Mr Hijink may think of what he thinks, but first of all we are not so afraid that this can happen in this situation at all. Secondly, we want to involve the whole debate on the extent to which healthcare institutions can make a profit and pay out further in the contour note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u31	This just can't be happening. We have a minister, Hugo de Jonge, who gives an annual interview in which he says he wants to get rid of market forces in healthcare. He wants to be the CDA's list leader. We hang out with the CDA more often when it comes to the profits in care. But every time we deal with a law here, under the previous laws, it was so, and we can actually settle something, the CDA says: yes, but not now, next time perhaps, you'll come back to us later. That's no way to do politics, is it? If, even as a CDA, you actually think that the profits should be taken out of care, then you have to settle it when it can, and that is today, the time when we determine the legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u32	I can repeat what I said once more, but I think I will fall into repetition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u33	I think Mr Hijink really has a point. We can make it concrete now. We can talk in general terms about the fact that we no longer want market forces, but we can now take it out and therefore impose a profit ban. Ambulance care is an important part of the entire acute care chain. The coincidence is that last week we received an opinion from the Health Council on acute care. It said that you should actually finance on the basis of availability. Does Mrs Van den Berg agree with GroenLinks that this would be a better form of funding for ambulance care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u34	At the initiative of the CDA, this opinion was requested from the Health Council. Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Veldman helped to determine the question. We see very clearly that there may be perverse incentives in the current way of financing and that for the acute chain, perhaps all or part of it, you would have to make an availability contribution. However, we still have a charcoal sketch of acute care. We believe that we should discuss it further at that time. But we certainly see that there are perverse incentives in the system and that it might be better to finance it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u35	It is interesting that Mrs van den Berg is very clear on the one hand and sees that there are perverse incentives, and on the other hand, when there is a time to do something about it, we are now discussing a law that is going through it. That's a missed opportunity, isn't it? Mrs Van den Berg does not see the risk as such, but it is now being financed on the basis of production. In one region, this will mean that it is tight, but in another region, take Amsterdam or another city where a lot of rides are driven. Surely this should be the time to stop the distribution of profits and adjust the financing? And to say: it is a very good advice from the Health Council, so let's also finance in that ambulance care on the basis of availability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u36	I think it is a sympathetic amendment. That money should remain in care is also the starting point for the CDA. But I would also like to say here that the CDA believes that this fundamental discussion applies not only to the ambulance service, but to several healthcare institutions. That's why we need to talk about it widely. And that conversation is part of the contour note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by expressing my support for Mr Hijink's proposal, which actually finds the name of the law very strange. I hadn't thought of it that way yet, but I tried quickly to change the abbreviations to Ambulance care organization, which is also so much called RAV. I think it is quite important for all the people who work there that they can imagine and that we do not use a very technocratic term. Mr. Chairman. We have often heard the Minister of the United States of America say to this minister's colleague that we should get rid of the market and that there should be more room for cooperation. This law is then a very interesting law, because we see some very nice steps in it. But we can also take some extra steps to get rid of this market. The ambulance service is referred to as a non-economic service of general interest. We've already talked about it. As a result, it is possible to designate one provider in each security region who will have a monopoly on ambulance services. In the Temporary Law ambulance care this was actually arranged in that way, and that is being continued now. This also applies to the way in which the care is contracted; the care purchase via the "representation model" is then called with a complicated word. That too remains the practice now. GroenLinks welcomes this development in principle, but we would prefer to see a clear piece of legislation for the entire acute care chain. We were just talking about it in the interrupting debate with Mrs Van den Berg. The different healthcare providers in the acute care chain are all interdependent and should also work together in the region. That's why those ROAZs, the Regional Transmitters, were set up with the creation of the Acute Care Chain. But the different parties in that consultation body must now agree with different insurers on the content of care and on the funding. Doesn't the Minister also think that cooperation in that consultation body will be easier if a clear purchase is made throughout the acute care chain? In other words, wouldn't it be better to buy care across the acute care chain through the representation model, so that all providers with the same two health insurance companies conclude contracts? In fact, if we're still on that thought, wouldn't it be interesting to introduce that representation model for the entire Health Insurance Act? Perhaps that would yield some profit in terms of quality of care. What are the possibilities for that? I'm considering a research motion at this point. Mr. Chairman. I also have a number of questions about funding. On the one hand, ambulance services are referred to as a non-economic service of general interest. Yet they are still being paid on the basis of PxQ, so on price times volume and therefore on turnover. The Health Council recently recommended that it would be better to finance on the basis of availability in the acute care chain. Then part of the healthcare insurers' budget can be spent on availability and part on quality of care and cooperation. Now everything has to come out of the same rate again and that will be different from one region to another. How does the Minister view this? How does the Minister evaluate this law in the light of the report From partial interests to shared interest of the Health Council? I'd like a response. Because funding is now primarily based on production, it remains possible to make profits. The Minister has indicated that he does not want to ban profit distribution at this time. He thinks the odds of excessive profits are small, so he doesn't seem to think it's necessary. I do not think that is a very fundamental statement. I mean, just because the odds are tight doesn't mean you can't say you don't really want to. I would also like a response from the Minister. Does he not think, like GroenLinks, that profits are not at all part of a non-economic service of general interest? That is why we are under the SP amendment. In addition, I wonder if the risk of profit distribution is really that small. The same rate applies to all ambulance carriers, namely €740 per journey plus €4 per kilometre. I can imagine that these rates are very tight for some ambulance organisations in sparsely populated areas, but on the other hand they are very large in densely populated areas. A uniform rate for all ambulance organisations can result in some organisations making a profit and others being very tight in cash. So why wait until we ban profits, if we can't do that directly and we can switch to another financing? Isn't prevention better than cure? Finally. The fact that rates are tight for ambulance organisations in sparsely populated areas is also reflected in the fact that the ambulance organisation in Friesland is already receiving an availability contribution. As a result, there is now a system based on production, supplemented by an availability contribution. Isn't it better to just finance the whole ambulance care on availability? Then the funding is at least unambiguous and also in line with the opinion of the Health Council. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to talk about the position of nurses, and not just the justified point that colleagues make that they should be mentioned in the law. That is one and very important. But of course it is mainly about the position they have in practice in ambulance care. They should have a central role in ambulance care, and they do, because they are the ones who are in the ambulance and provide the most care. However, we do not see that nurses have a central role: not in the law, but not yet in all ambulance organisations. GroenLinks has long argued for more control of nurses in all kinds of healthcare debates. Within these organisations we see that this is not yet well arranged everywhere. The structure in the care is generally quite top-down and we see that the nurses are still too little in the top. So the nurses often have to do what they're told. But also within ambulance care, the experience and knowledge of nurses is invaluable. That is why I would like the Minister to talk to the ambulance organisations and use his position to make demands on creating a firm position for ambulance nurses. I would like a response to that, because GroenLinks believes that this would improve the quality of care. In addition, ambulance nurses often know how best to make these changes. We can use that practical knowledge better than we do now. Nursing responsibility will also have a positive impact on labour market problems, because we also have a major shortage of ambulance nurses. By giving nurses more control, we increase the working pleasure of this group and will also reduce the number of people coming out. Mr. Chairman. Nursing responsibility can be shaped in different ways within ambulance care. The Minister can table with these organizations to see which form of control best fits within which organization. Sometimes, for example, a chief nursing officer or a nurse on the board can work best. In other situations, a nursing advisory board will be more appropriate. I am also considering a motion on this point, because I think it is really important that we not only give them a place in the law, but above all a place and a position in practice. Finally, I would like to talk about nurse leadership. Both the temporary law and the new law state that the medical manager must be an ambulance care provider. However, we now see in practice that in 5 out of 25 ambulance organisations this task is already done, in whole or in part, by nursing specialists. As a result, the new law is no longer in line with current practice and is actually a step backwards. How does the Minister assess this form of nursing leadership? Does he also agree in principle with the task of medical manager ambulance care being done by a nursing specialist? That is what I believe to be a form of the position given to nurses who are already able to handle in practice. So I would very much like to see that reflected in this new law. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking today about the Ambulance Services Bill. We're talking about paramedics. Finally, I'd like to say. Fortunately we don't do that anymore with the word "temporary" in the introductory phrase. Ambulance care is a crucial part of acute care and benefits from continuity and stability, so that the parties in this sector know each other well and have responded to this important life-saving task. Also for all over 6,000 ambulance workers in our country, I think that would be nice. During one of my work visits at the ambulance Limburg-Noord I have seen how passionately they are doing their work. The latter is also evident from the figures. Patients appreciate ambulance care on average with a 9.1. The ambulance workers deserve not only the appreciation, but also a good legal provision, which will clarify the future of this sector. The present bill is trying to provide that clarity. I am enthusiastic about this clarity, but in addition to the question of whether a bill can achieve its intended objectives, it is always up to us as the House of Representatives to see whether a bill is legally sound. That has gone wrong in the past. I must confess that I am not entirely reassured by the legislative proposal and the approach of this cabinet on this point. I would therefore like to begin today with questions about the legal sustainability and risks of the proposal before us. I will then discuss the aims of the proposal. Can it achieve what it aims to do? As far as D66 is concerned, this is the right balance between quality, innovation and efficiency on the one hand and stability and continuity on the other. Finally, I will go into the ambulance nurses and all the other caregivers on and around the ambulance. In short, does the bill do justice to all employees and practice in the sector? First of all, I would like to talk about the legal basis of this proposal. We may all welcome the fact that this legislative proposal aims at a final settlement, but if the law does not stand up legally, it will turn out to be temporary. And we really need to avoid that, from our role as co-legislator and especially for everyone who works in the ambulance sector. Mr. Chairman. The present bill aims to remove ambulance care from the market indefinitely. Therefore, a concession model with a tendering procedure is not chosen. At the same time, ambulance services are not made public either, because that would cause too much unrest and change, the cabinet judges. The main aim of this bill is to keep everything as it is today. And in practice this means a model with one Regional Ambulance Provision, a RAV as a monopolist in the region, a monopolist that can be both public and private, from a cooperative to an e.g. This provision will have a monopoly over both planned and emergency ambulance services. A private provider with a legal monopoly! I might hear you thinking, "Can I just do that?" What about the European rules on freedom of movement? Is this even a matter of competition law? The answer is, no, you can't just do that. These rules can only be exempted if there is a NEDAB, a non-economic service of general interest. Only if ambulance services qualify as NEDAB will this bill be in line with European law. This requires a lack of economic character and, secondly, the absence of a service within the meaning of the rules on freedom of movement. In addition, the qualification as a NEDAB must also be necessary as a proportionate means for the intended social purpose. As always, the Council of State has also looked at the legislative proposal before us and the Council has been very critical this time. The Council of State considers it uncertain whether the bill meets these requirements. Firstly, according to the Board, planned care does not necessarily only involve care-specific considerations. There can therefore be competition dynamics and an economic nature. Secondly, the Council of State points out that the form of establishment proposed is mainly inadequate, because it is uncertain whether the ambulance service is not an economic service. While the market is now shielded by the public authorities, other market participants may also wish to offer the ambulance facilities, especially given the presence of commercial providers and the possibility for the RAVs to outsource the care to profitable subcontractors. Questions. Can the Minister reflect on the criticism of the Council of State? Can he tell us what's going on with the economic character? Do criteria such as the cost and price of ambulance care not play a role in the purchase by health insurance companies? According to the minister, there's no market potential? Is the qualification as a NEDAB strictly necessary and proportionate for the social purpose? In short, how sure is the Minister that the proposal is in line with European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u41	I think that a lot of people who are following this debate are wondering what this debate is really about. So we are discussing whether ambulance services, the transport of people who are ill, are an economic service in the sense of an economic service that must be able to make money. I'm curious what D66 actually thinks. Do you think that ambulance care is, in its entirety, not only emergency care but also planned care, an economic service on which profits must be made? Or does D66 say, like the SP, "no, it's kind of weird that you'd want to make a profit on that, that it should be tendered and that European companies could sign up for it"? Where does D66 even stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u42	It's a fair question. I would like to go back to the introduction to my speech. There I indicated that ambulance care in the Netherlands is of high quality and is also well appreciated by the patients. I think that's important. I think it's important that we have good ambulance care. Whether we do that public or private is for me a means and subordinate, because it's about providing good ambulance care. I see good ambulance care being provided in the 25 RAV regions. So I fully understand the desire of this cabinet to record it for the longer term; I share that wish. I am simply saying that Mr Hijink and I are quite capable of finding out what the legal situation is and whether it should be, but that it is a fact that this is the European rules. If those rules are there and there are still, let's please make sure that we have boarded up this law as best we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u43	Yes, but what Mr Raemakers is saying is very easy. He says, "I just want good ambulance care." Well, that's what the SP wants. I'd like some nice weather, too. Well, that's a coincidence, but well... good ambulance care we all want. The question we have here, of course, is how we are going to organise it. Which side is D66 on? I do not like merely asking questions about how Brussels is going to look at this potential, possibly. I think that as a party you should also form an idea of what you think it should look like. If Brussels were to say that some of the ambulance services are potentially economically profitable, this could mean that we need to cut up the ambulance services and that emergency care should be separated from non-emergency care. Totally undesirable; no one wants that. If we do not want to do so, there is the risk of it. Maybe today we should make sure that we do not do so and that the variant of the public service may need to be examined more closely. Then it's important where D66 is. You can't just say: we just want it investigated and eventually it has to lead to good care. That's too easy. If you have to choose between the public service, which does not discuss this type of discussion, or the very difficult route that will have to be followed through Brussels, which side will D66 take?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u44	Mr Hijink pretends that there are only two possible choices, but I do not think that is the case. In half of the 25 regions, I think there is a private construction. Sometimes that is an e.g., sometimes a foundation, there are different legal forms. If you were to do what the SP says, that everything should become public, this would cause a lot of uncertainty, especially among the employees who are now working on the ambulance. It will create uncertainty in the region, in acute care, in hospitals. It's going to create uncertainty for the patients. And no one really wants that. You could quite rightly say: if you want to offer more certainty, you can of course also give a ten-year concession. I can see in the answer that the government is all about that. The government outlines the dilemma as either a five-year concession or for an unlimited period of time. But there's still some variants in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u45	This isn't gonna work like this. Mr Raemakers may say that there are more options, but he himself does not choose any option. He raises questions and that is right, because that is our work here as a Lower House. But as a party, you'll have to decide your own position. Suppose there's a company coming in from Greece that starts a case, goes to court and says, "We want to take on some of the non-acute care." What if Brussels talks with the government? Where's D66? Does D66 say at such a time: "Dear government, cut that ambulance care and make sure that some of it goes to the foreign party?" Or does D66 say at that moment: ho, ho, we don't want this, make sure it comes into public hands now, left or right, so that we avoid misery?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u46	In this particular case, I would say that we have it well organized in the regions now, so let's keep it as it is. But if you say that you want to exclude a single foreign investor, that would mean that e.g. in the Netherlands and foundations should also be made public. But that's not what I want. It would be the consequence of the SP proposal, Mr Hijink's approach. I just want them to be able to keep going in those RAVs they're doing pretty good. I am just concerned that the argument, the justification of this bill, is inadequate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr Raemakers is calling it a little bit about himself, because he is problematic about the fact that this bill says that it is no longer going to be tendered. Then you can say that we are at risk because of Europe, but you can also say that the Member States in Europe are concerned about their own concerns, and we are showing with this bill that we are interpreting it in this way. You can choose for that; I would like to choose for that. If you don't want to, you can approach the problem differently. Mr Raemakers himself says that profits do not fit in with an organisation with a non-economic interest. If you want to solve it that way, you can also say no more winnings. How does Mr Raemakers see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u48	On the issue of 'no more profits', I would like to endorse what Mrs van den Berg said about this. I think it is really important that we have a broader discussion on the contour note, on the whole of the concern. But I would like to comment on another element of what Mrs Ellemeet says. It's really a novelty that we're going to organize ambulance care in this way. I will explain this further in a moment. That is why it is so important to ask questions now, while we still can, and not later than three years from now, I think that we would both find that very annoying if the European Commission were to turn a finger on the Netherlands because this was not entirely according to the rules. It would have been much better to ask the European Commission in the front: can this really be done? That's one of the questions I'll have later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u49	It is a pity that it is becoming more and more like the big sliding cabinet, supported by the coalition parties. As a chamber, you have laws to change the practice. With a contour note we do not change the Netherlands. With laws, we change the Netherlands. We can influence that as a Chamber. It is now up to Mr Raemakers, as it is up to us, to give that direction. It is a pity that Mr Raemakers says that this is not the time and that we are going to talk about profits when we discuss a policy note in the Chamber. I think that's a missed opportunity. This cabinet could take steps. This Chamber could help, but Mr Raemakers has opted for a pass on the spot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u50	I don't think anyone wants to make big profits in paramedics. If you look at the practice of ambulance care, with fixed rates and budget cost, I think the margins to make really big profits are also quite small. However, in theory, the Council of State also points out that, by completely excluding profit distributions in certain cases, investments, perhaps also investments in better quality ambulance care for the patient, are being abolished. It's a theoretical possibility. I can't quite imagine exactly how you can make a profit and put it back into innovation, but let's not rule this out. Let's have a broader discussion. But D66 certainly doesn't want to make money in the ambulance care of patients' backs. We really don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u52	So I have a lot of questions about legal sustainability; that is already clear to you. I really wouldn't have been worried about that if there were other countries already with a similar model, but the practice is different. An international comparison with 16 other countries shows that only two other countries, like the Netherlands, have a monopoly on urgent and planned care. No other country has identified ambulance services as non-economic services of general interest without making them public. So we are moving forward with this bill in unexplored territory. In my view, this raises these questions in substance. Isn't planning and emergency care in other countries inextricably linked? Is there a need for a monopoly on emergency and planned ambulance care? Do we, through this monopoly, provide better ambulance care on both of them than those other countries? What does that prove? Or does the cabinet not measure what this yields compared to other variants? Mr President, apart from all kinds of substantive questions, I am also trying to understand the process better. If our highest state-law advisory body, the Council of State, strongly doubts the sustainability of a legislative proposal, a proposal that is therefore an international novelty and unique but that our ambulance services should be definitively regulated.... I would think that you should check with the European Commission on the front that it is also in line with European law. But I read in the note on the report that this simply did not happen. It is now possible that such infringement proceedings may be followed by the same Commission. So we're all a lot further away from home. No one really wants that. I therefore ask the Minister why the discussion with the Commission has not taken place. This informal route is always open, isn't it? Was there a lack of time, for example? There is also a risk that another, excluded provider will start a lawsuit in the near future. Has the Minister received any signals that a party will start a trial if this bill is passed by both chambers, for example by means of a letter or e-mail, a discussion at the ministry or a response to the consultation etc.? Finally, on this point. I read in the reply that advice was sought from the national attorney. What exactly was the advice of the state attorney and what risks were identified by him? Mr. Chairman. Then I want to go to the alternatives. I sincerely hope that the Minister will be able to provide me with more legal certainty. After all, we are making an important choice here, and I would also like to take into account the alternatives that are not legally uncertain, which can provide more certainty. First of all, the concession model. I think that we are all in agreement that a call for tenders every five years, as proposed by the cabinet, would not lead to the desired stability and continuity. Would the concession not simply be granted for a period of 10 years or longer? According to the Council of State, we can do this. I can see in the government's written reply that people go every ten years and talk about it in five years' time. But, of course, that is not the only possibility, as I have just said. Another alternative is the public model. According to the Minister, the RAVs could be made uniform for this purpose. Is that strictly necessary? Does the Minister also see the advantages of such uniformity and how does the Minister weigh the short- and long-term interest in this matter? Can he make a comparison with the model in question, in which ambulance care in each security region is controlled by a different type of organisation and entity? How big are the differences in quality and the achievement of standards between the RAVs at the moment? So that public model has its drawbacks, too, as I have just pointed out, but we do not think there is an analysis of what else would be possible, what the benefits would be, and a piece of argument, which the Council of State is asking for and will also ask the European Commission if they are going to look into this matter. To sum up, this is the point. To what extent did the government compare all these models on a balance between quality, innovation and efficiency on the one hand and continuity and stability on the other? I also mean an international competition and a measurable study, not just a list of arguments for and against. It's got to have more depth. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to talk about the specific objectives of the bill. Can the Minister explain how, in addition to continuity, the legislative proposal also contributes to quality and innovation? Is there a risk that a monopoly for an indefinite period will weaken the urge to invest in quality and innovation? Mrs Van den Berg pointed that out. Can the Minister comment on the consistency of the legislative proposal with the quality framework, the ambulance plan and the quality registrations? Why was the proposal for a five-yearly visit chosen and not for an annual or biennial, for example? Five years is quite a long term when you're talking about visitation. Couldn't it have been otherwise? I also note that the possibility remains to outsource ambulance services to subcontractors. How much insight do the RAVs have into the quality of care that a subcontractor provides? Mr. Chairman. We also regularly discuss the importance of timeliness in this Chamber. D66 also wants to ensure timely, high-quality ambulance services in thinly populated areas. How does this proposal encourage an improvement in timeliness? What impact can the opinion Reconsider 45 minutes standard of the Health Council Committee, according to the Minister, have on the organisation of ambulance care? How has this been taken into account in this bill? Finally, my final point. That's about the role of the paramedics and all the other hard-working paramedics. On the one hand, I understand the paramedic very well. They have received intensive training and are keen to see recognition for it. On the other hand, I also understand the desire which exists widely in the sector to keep some room in determining which ambulance worker is often required to provide exactly what care. Only in this way can we work on a future-proof ambulance service in which we also have enough staff, and we do not ask ambulance staff for unfeasible legal requirements. I think that Mr Hijink's amendment, which is now signed by all of us, sets out a golden middle course between these two issues. It indicates that there are ambulance nurses but also ambulance care professionals and calls every paramedic. I also believe that, when we have further decision-making on who exactly is required for which ambulance services and what training requirements we impose on which staff member, we should have democratic control over them. We in the House of Representatives must be able to find something of that. This involvement can also be expected from paramedic brothers and sisters of their people. That is why, together with Mr Veldman, I have tabled an amendment which regulates legal procedures so that the Chamber remains involved in the elaboration. I think that this way we can help the ambulance staff, many of whom have signed a petition, as best we can. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u53	Of course, I fully agree with those last words by Mr Raemakers that it is important for the House of Representatives to be able to exercise maximum influence and control. But it is a pity that the amendment he has made together with Mr Veldman does not give the maximum control and supervision at all. Because that is based on a ministerial arrangement. It would be much better to choose the construction of a general measure of governance. I happen to have made such an amendment. And I would like to invite Mr Raemakers, and indeed Mr Veldman, to join my amendment. Because with this we sincerely guarantee the participation of the House of Representatives much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u54	We have also looked at how to do that front: via AMvB or ministerial arrangement? The most important consideration is that it usually takes much longer for an AMvB. It is already June and this law is due to enter into force on 1 January 2021. Then we also want all these training requirements and so on to be clear. So that was our consideration of playing safe and making the veil through a ministerial arrangement. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly what he thinks about the deadlines and what he thinks about your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'd like to be sensitive to that. That is why I have also tabled a second amendment which proposes a slight veil instead of a heavy front. Mr Raemakers' objection could perhaps be overcome. I therefore urge him to support this amendment. That's really better for paramedics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u56	I have not yet looked at that second amendment. Yes, I will. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. Then we'll make up our minds about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. I now give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The silence on the street during the coronalockdown was regularly broken in certain regions by moaning sirens of ambulances who could barely cope with the influx of patients towards hospital. The coronavirus has clearly shown how fragile our health system is, but also how great the commitment of the caregivers and even the military has been. I thank them from here on out for their tremendous commitment. Partly because of them, there was no code black at the close, and spreading the patients across hospitals has allowed every patient who needed it to get a spot. Therefore, I do not like the timing of this legal treatment. We heard it this afternoon from Mr. Van Akkeren, who informally offered us a petition. There wasn't enough time. Yet he has been able to tell us that 1,064 of the more than 2,000 ambulance nurses indicate that they want to maintain their own definition of ambulance nurse. This is unlike the professional association V&VN, who thought they could live with the legislative change. That is why it is a pity that so much haste is being made. Mr Hijink of the SP has drafted an amendment on behalf of a large part of the Chamber which we were also allowed to sign. I thank him for that. The purpose of this law can count on our agreement. However, we believe that a lot of functional definitions are emerging alongside paramedics. The last few years have been added: the physician assistant ambulance care, the nursing specialist ambulance care, the clinical technologist, the bachelor medical care provider, the caring individual health care, and now also the ambulance professional. This while patients in practice just keep talking in terms of "ambulance brother," "doctor" or "sister." I ask the Minister to reflect on this multitude of job definitions. Recently, a bill was passed in which the former minister, if necessary, wanted to introduce the position of director nurse. Although the professional association V&VN also agreed to this, it was the resistance and resistance of the nurses themselves who fortunately withdrew this bill. We support the aim of this law that is now before us, which governs that ambulance services are classified as a NEDAB, a non-economic service of general interest. It is good that there is one provider per security region that has not only the right but also the duty to provide this care. I ask the Minister what other parts of the acute care chain he might consider to be NEDAB. I can imagine that the emergency services and the acute obstetrics departments should be given the same status. I'd like to hear the Minister's reflection on that. When the temporary ambulance law was discussed, our amendment was adopted to ensure that a BIG-registered ambulance nurse would be present on the urgent and high-complex journeys. This amendment did not save the law. Like I said, functions are added. The Minister states that these functions are of the same quality as those of ambulance nurse. That is the intention, of course, but how does he guarantee this, I ask him. For example, how many years of training, specialization and experience does the average ambulance nurse have compared to the Bachelor's medical care provider? The experiment has yet to be evaluated. Wouldn't it be premature to declare this functional definition already competent for the ambulance? I am also hesitant about the care differentiation when it comes to risk assessments that are done, for example, by the nursing center in the dispatch room. It's very complicated. It's very complicated human work and it's very reckless. Is it possible that an ambulance will be pulled out without BIG-registered ambulance nurse on board, while the care required by the patient to be transported does require it, but this has not come forward unintentionally through the triage? The purpose of the review of the urgency classification is to come from triage to the use of proper care by the right care provider at the right time for the patient, with the best possible outcome for the patient. This is pretty much official secret language. Of course we try to create the best possible care, but it also has money reasons. I would like to stress that everyone wants things to be better, more convenient or more efficient, but that the practice is much more resilient, the triage takes place remotely and situations are just very different and very difficult to estimate. Perhaps you should also accept that assessment is difficult, and avoid taking irresponsible risks for reasons of money. To what extent is it feasible what the Task Force Urgenties wants, namely a priority with seven levels of urgency? You actually need to know exactly what's going on. Let me give you the example of my father. Two years ago, he was in surgery. He was home. My mom needed a nurse because she had ammonia poisoning. I slept with them. In the middle of the night, my father was standing next to his bed. He said I had such a pain in my back. I said, "Dad, what's going on? Should I call the doctor?" He said, no, no, I have to go to the hospital. Now that man had had some surgeries and he could make a good assessment of it. So I said, "Shall I call 911?" He said, "Yes, quickly, quickly!" I called 911. You'll get the triagist on the phone. She also took my dad on the phone because he wasn't unconscious or anything. And the triagist decided not to send an ambulance. I had to take my father to the hospital myself, but I couldn't, because my mother was confused by that ammonia poisoning. I thought, "What am I supposed to do?" So I called my brother. Then my sister-in-law came from another place. She was there in 20 minutes. My dad had to walk downstairs and get in the car. All in all, my father was in the hospital 45 minutes after I made the 911 call under the scan. Turns out he had an acute aneurysm that was about to explode. He should never have been brought there by car! And yet the triagist had determined that on the phone. In practice, the situation proved to be much more unwieldy. Within 45 minutes he was in an ambulance on his way to a specialized hospital. There he has surgery within two hours, in an excellent, innovative way. Luckily, it didn't cost him his life. What I want to demonstrate with this is that on the phone it is very difficult to assess what the situation is. You can think on paper that you can work with seven levels of urgency, but in this case there should have been a prioritisation of the highest order, while no ambulance was sent at all. I would like to bring this to the attention of the Minister. I don't particularly need a reaction to the situation with my father, but to the idea that you can figure out on paper that you want seven levels of urgency, while the practice is very uncomfortable. Mr. Chairman. Then the research into the quality of paramedics. Patients say they appreciate it with a 9.1. That's a hell of a grade. Patients indicate that they want to be more involved in the choice of the hospital to which they are brought. Can the Minister mean anything in this? The lesson the minister seems to learn from the corona crisis is that the mix of urgent and non-emergency journeys must remain in one hand. He points out the relocation of corona patients to other hospitals. He calls that "the non-emergency form." But I think that's a little short. Of course, this was urgent and, of course, it was high-complex care. After all, they were patients who had to be transported to or from the ICUs, people who fought for their lives, and ambulance nurses who helped them in the ambulance. I come to the uncertainty created by the temporary laws and the fact that there is less investment in ambulances, staff and equipment. How's the Minister gonna put that back on track? How big is this deficit? Can the Minister say something about what is now, in the short term, needed for investment? Finally, the fifteen-minute standard. We need to do something with this, because in some regions, driving times are seriously failing due to the recent closure of more and more emergency services and acute obstetrics departments. Can the Minister explain again why he does not think it is necessary to include an improvement plan for the accessibility of acute care? A five-year visit is not enough here, I think. Annual monitoring, control seems to me better, as well as a legal anchoring and a monitor. How does the Minister feel about this? Would he think that's a good idea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Also thank you for sharing such a personal story about your father. Then we go to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under normal circumstances, there may be few people looking at an ambulance with pride and admiration. Most people will only have to deal with the ambulance if there is a traffic accident or if there is an acute medically serious situation at home. In those cases, there is almost always an ambulance on site very quickly. That's not just an ambulance, as you can see in some other countries, but more like a driving hospital with highly trained health professionals. And rightly so: in a crucial care task such as ambulance care, high-quality care must be at the heart of the patient, care that is in line with the latest developments in acute care and that also allows the patient to enjoy the benefits of the innovations taking place in this sector. Mr. Chairman. This bill identifies ambulance care as a non-economic service of general interest and speaks of one provider per region. We have spoken about this as a Chamber before, in a general discussion, with the minister's predecessor. The Minister then outlined a number of conditions for the new ambulance law: 1. ensuring continuity by designating a monopolist in the region, 2. purchasing through the two largest insurers in the region, and 3. designating the current provider for an indefinite period. Mr. Chairman. These principles are now reflected in the legislative proposal before us. Although the designation of one provider limits free competition, it prevents what you do not want, for example, in acute care and what you do see in the United States, for example, that two competing ambulances arrive at the same calamity. In addition, one permanent provider in the emergency, acute care is to be preferred precisely for the sake of good cooperation in the chain. Mr. Chairman. I am honest: I am by nature not a fan of these kinds of constructions with one provider for an indefinite period of time. But in paramedics, I can live with it. I would like to ask the Minister whether the creation of a monopoly on ambulance services is not contrary to EU rules on the internal market and competition. Can the new law be challenged? If that happens, what is his assessment of the result? Mr. Chairman. The VVD considers it very important that, despite the lack of competition, the quality of ambulance care remains well protected and that innovation takes place, ensuring that the patient is assured of the best acute care at that time. There is also a need to take account of cost savings. Normally, good competition takes care of this kind of thing. Good competition improves quality. I would like to hear again in an explanation from the Minister how these matters are well secured by this law. How does the periodic visitation check for quality improvement? What follow-up actions will be used in a poor assessment? How will cost savings be taken into account when setting tariffs and budgets where this can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u61	I was just thinking about what Mr Veldman just said. He said that he is not such a fan that a particular task is laid down for a longer period of time with one provider. If we look at the other sectors in which acute services, emergency calls and all that sort of thing come along, such as firefighters and police, we see that we never really have a discussion about the fact that a particular task is being invested in one organisation for a longer period of time. Then why would that suddenly be a problem with acute care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u62	Mr Hijink gives examples. The police are a national-organised instrument. That's what we have with each other. It's in public hands. That's not a company we're hiring. They're not private security guards who support us on the street or who maintain us on the street. That's exactly the difference. In paramedics operate from the past, where we come from, a number of private organizations. We are now trying to regulate with a law that they can continue to do so. I'm not a fan of a monopoly, not even in acute care. But I can imagine, given the circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u63	Finally, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u64	But we have a lot of monopolies when it comes to acute care, for example the fire department and the police. I don't hear the VVD suggesting in the police, for example... Yeah, well, it is when it comes to private security. But I do not hear the VVD suggest for the time being that firefighters in the regions should compete with other firefighters or that policemen should compete with policemen of some other kind. Somehow, ideologically speaking, a kind of short circuit has emerged at the VVD, which suddenly has to be organized in the context of acute care. While no one can imagine anything in the fire department and the police, Mr Veldman is awake from the fact that we are about to give acute care to one organisation for a longer period of time. That's a little weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u65	I think it is a difficult question, because Mr Hijink is actually asking me to respond to something that is no longer there because of this bill. It is precisely this bill that makes sure that the competition that was or might be there is not there. After all, this bill ensures that there is one provider who will also have it for an indefinite period of time. I am not naturally a fan of that, but I would add that I can imagine something about that in this situation. But I do have doubts about that. Is the model legally sustainable? I just asked the Minister that question. I also have questions about the quality and in that respect I was in the middle of my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u66	Finally, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u67	It is frustrating that Mr Veldman does not answer the question. Now make the comparison with other emergency sectors, such as the fire department and the police. Make that equation. Why should we not tolerate competition in these sectors? No one can imagine that, and why should the VVD, in the debate on this bill, have to take all kinds of turns in order to accept it in emergency care for this one time, when no one can imagine it in the fire department and the police? Why don't you answer that question about the content? Why are these sectors so different that competition in emergency care should be the intention in the deepest desire of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u68	The real question put by Mr Hijink concerns the desire to put everything into public hands and thus the whole of concern. That is, of course, a well-known story of the Socialist Party. In his term, I only let him go in his rage about the market. I heard him mention examples. Surely it is not true that a Greek company thinks: you know what, I'm going to offer ambulance services in the Netherlands? Let me tell Mr Hijink how it is now common in the Netherlands and that it can be done. The White Cross provides ambulance services in Haaglanden. I think the White Cross is known as an organization that functions well in this region. That's a company. That company is part of Transdev, a French company with its headquarters in Paris. There's nothing wrong with companies offering and caring for parts of the care. The question is how do you want to organize things with each other for a long time? That's why we have this bill. This will ensure that there will be no new competition, because we will be with one supplier for an indefinite period of time. As a liberal, I say: I am by nature not a fan of this, because I like competition. Competition makes people better. Competition brings progress. Competition stimulates innovation. In this case I say: I can imagine that this is a sensible choice, with a number of restrictions and questions that I put to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u69	Good. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u70	Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with the quality improvement. The VVD attaches great importance to good monitoring to ensure the quality of ambulance care. In the note following the report we read that it is up to the ambulance sector itself to organise the periodic visitation. This is also common in other parts of the care. I would like to ask the Minister how this approach guarantees objectivity and an open mind. How do we prevent the butcher from approving his own meat and doing so indefinitely? Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Other speakers have already mentioned it for me. I, too, have received a lot of signals in recent days about changing the term "ambulance nurse" to "ambulance care professional." This calls on paramedics to ensure that their duties lapse. That can't be the intention. "Ambulance care professional" is not a new term, but is also used in the current temporary law, precisely because there are more professionals working in ambulance care. We therefore appreciate the Minister's desire to do justice to all professionals with the term "ambulance care professional." We do think it is important for the ambulance nurses to know that they feel that way and that they can retain their title in this law as well. Mr Hijink has tabled an amendment on this subject, which is widely supported. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he can get rid of the amendment and the amendment to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u72	It was a bit of a slow reaction from me. I had a question for Mr Veldman. He says it's important that paramedics feel recognized. Of course, that starts with the fact that you're mentioned in the law, but it doesn't end there. The most important thing is how we put these paramedics into practice. One of the things I mentioned was that as a medical manager, you could also put a nursing specialist in position. What does Mr Veldman think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u73	The answer is very simple. I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u74	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u75	It refers precisely to what Mrs Ellemeet, together with Mr Hermans, has asked for attention last year: give that nurse a vote, give it a seat at the table. Here too I can confirm her: yes, this seems to me to be something that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u76	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Like many other people, I think, I often have mixed feelings when I hear the siren of the ambulance. If you're waiting for it yourself, you're glad that sounds. If you're worried about someone around you getting hurt, you're worried. The few times I've dealt with ambulance care, I've always been very impressed with the medical knowledge and professionalism of the people working on the ambulance, but especially with their calming influence on any situation. Whether it's a traffic accident or a child's sports injury on a Saturday morning; just because of their presence and their way of acting, the situation always seemed more under control. I am very grateful that we have such good ambulance care in the Netherlands. I would like to thank everyone who is working on this, and perhaps especially Mr Jim van Akkeren. Others mentioned his name as well. He offered a petition this morning. I'll add that he did that at five feet, very creatively designed. For me, that was just another proof that no matter what situation ambulance workers face, they always do the right thing and come up with solutions that fit the situation. Mr. Chairman. I think a lot of paramedics have been working overtime in the corona crisis over the last few months. Patients had to be transported, sometimes even abroad. We've all been able to read about the column of ambulances that went north from Brabant. Solidarity was not only very great between hospitals and people, but also the ambulance workers were part of it. They were actually on the front line of care. That, too, deserves a big thank you. Good ambulance care is professional ambulance care. Colleagues said the same thing. The quality of the people on that ambulance is very important. With colleagues we are concerned about the disappearance of the title ambulance nurse from the law. Like many others, I have wholeheartedly supported Mr Hijink's amendment to correct that omission. I would very much like to hear from the Minister if he is going to embrace that amendment. I have also proposed an amendment to the Chamber. I've been talking about that. Moreover, I have changed that to bring Mr Raemakers with me and I think Mr Veldman too. I sincerely hope that colleagues and the Minister will embrace this because it will ensure the influence of the Chamber on this important law, not only today, but also in the time that is to come. Good ambulance care is professional ambulance care, but also timely ambulance care. Over the past few years, we have discussed regularly with the minister's predecessor the problems of timely ambulance care. Driving times are too long in some regions. I believe that Mrs van den Berg has already spoken about this. The standards agreed are not always met. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, the solution is not to extend the standards in a system which, as far as we are concerned, does not meet the need for care in acute care. In Krimpen aan den IJssel the ambulance in 15% to 20% of the cases does not reach the legal driving time. I would like a response from this Minister. In the municipality of Reusel-De Mierden, the ambulance did not arrive in time last year in 75 out of 285 cases. Everyone in the Netherlands, wherever he lives, must be sure that the ambulance arrives on time. This is particularly true in conjunction with the closure of a number of urgent posts. I'd like a response from the Minister to how he sees this. And above all, what measures is he going to take to ensure that standards are met everywhere in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to join Mrs Ellemeet's argument on strengthening the position of nurses. I would like to say that in the whole of acute care, but we are now talking about ambulance care. That's not just about valuation in a type of job description. It's not just about pay grade either. Once again, I would like to call on the Chamber to work together to ensure that care workers receive a better reward. But it's also about the place you get at the table; so not "a place," but "the place" you get at the table. The strengthening of control of nurses throughout the care, but also in emergency care, is very important. Hence the support for Mrs Ellemeet's motion. At least we do this together, but perhaps others will join us. Finally, Mr President. There were extremely many good suggestions from colleagues in this debate. I am very much in favour of everyone understanding what this is all about, including myself, because the first time I went into this, it dwarfed me of all the abbreviations, levels and standards. If that's the case, I'm probably not the only one. I would like to wholeheartedly support the proposal made by Mr Hijink or by Mrs Ellemeet. Sometimes clarity does the best justice to the commitment of all those professionals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u78	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u79	I'll resume and suspend the meeting for half an hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u80	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for their first-term input. Some have already said it: it is nice to be able to speak with each other so soon about the proposal for the Ambulance Services Act, or whatever it might be called later. I am grateful that you see with me the urgency to make a new law for ambulance care now. The current law expires on 1 January. I also find it special to be standing here; Mr Hijink mentioned it for a while. I have to get used to the idea that I am now, in this place, as a temporary minister, a "left-wing ally" by the SP. I had a tendency to say, "Do I hear you right now?', to hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u82	This is just entrapment! Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u83	The temptation is now, of course, to start a whole story about the nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u84	No, don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u85	I'm not gonna do that right now. I specifically said "hopefully."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u86	I would like to mention that 2 billion!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u87	I said, "hopefully." And I'm also counting on us to see that tonight. In that respect, I have very good hope. I hope that this minister, like a Trojan horse, will do the right thing in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u88	In any case, some consistency cannot be denied, not even to my input. Mr Hijink has examined some of the documents from 2006 and the President has said a number of things, for which I would like to thank him very much. I remember when I was allowed to treat the Temporary Law paramedics. That's what I was allowed to do at the time, because Mrs. Schippers was a formatter. On 23 May 2017, I said that "a lot of public guidance is needed, and will remain so." I think we now have a legislative proposal that is at least consistent with that. The debate on the structural legislation for ambulance services has indeed been going on for quite a long time. In 2004 the proposal for the Ambulance Care Act was submitted. That proposal, as you know, was originally based on periodic tendering, but was amended to include a legislative proposal that focused on continuity of care. However, that proposal did not enter into force. Then, from 2010, was working on the Temporary Ambulance Services Act. That would apply from 2013 to 2018, but has been extended until 1 January next. The present cabinet is there, thanks to Bruno Bruins.... I would like to congratulate him from this point on and thank him for having succeeded in developing a structural legislative proposal, which I hope will enter into force on 1 January. I think it is good to deal with this discussion now, left or right. The last thing I want is that uncertainty and uncertainty among the ambulance workers, the ambulance services and all their partners would take longer because the new legislation would not be ready in time. The sector deserves a structural embedding in acute care. If you look back at the ambulance care in the Netherlands, you can see that these big developments have taken place. Once upon a time, it started out as a glorified taxi ride. In the 1960s, ambulances received a mobile phone. National training courses for ambulance nurses and drivers will take place in the 1980s. In the meantime, ambulances have become driving hospitals. Between 2012 and 2018, the number of rush journeys increased from over 774,000 to over 995,000, an annual growth rate of 4.3%. Despite this growth, the sector has maintained its performance over the years. That's just very handsome. Some of you, actually everyone, have already reported it: ambulance workers have been having an extra hard time lately. Although there is still much unknown about how the coronavirus works, the ambulance staff have always been flexible and shown continuous commitment. They have played an essential role in the first emergency care for the people at home, in the distribution of ic-patients across Dutch hospitals and in helping out in the various intensive cares. I am very, very grateful to them for that. We can be happy in the Netherlands with such good ambulance care. High-quality ambulance care falls or stands with well-trained staff. Mr Hijink mentioned a number of just over 2,000, but in total there are about 6,200 ambulance workers in the Netherlands who work day and night to provide quality and timely ambulance care. This is appreciated by patients, as Mrs Agema has already said. They appreciate the care with an average 9.1. I will come back to the quality later. Precisely maintaining good ambulance care is for me the main starting point of the new law, it is available at all times 7 times 24 hours. That's why the bill is based on continuity. The current 25 RAVs are given an indeterminate designation. Yes, that provides clarity, security and stability to patients, employees and chain partners in acute care and safety. The 25 RAVs have the exclusive right and duty to provide ambulance services in their region. The representative health insurance companies continue to buy care. The funding remains based on budgetary parameters. Because health insurers retain their role in ambulance care, they can buy various forms of acute care in the chain in a coherent manner. It is also very important to consider ambulance care not as a separate part, but simply as a full part of the entire acute chain.. what do I say... actually for the whole care. A number of questions have been asked about this point of continuity and to consider the RAV as NEDAB, the ambulance service as a non-economic service of general interest, which makes this continuity possible. Let's be, we can make different choices. We can choose a procurement model, we can choose a public provision and we can choose the pragmatic choice that is now contained in this bill, the continuity. Indeed, we could have chosen to tender, but then there would be periodic uncertainty among employees, RAVs and chain partners about who will be the provider of care in the region. We do not know what that would mean for quality and innovation. What would it mean for the willingness to invest in the long term if no one is sure that in a year's time those investments will benefit? What risks arise in the continuity of care when the provider changes periodically? Do you think we have enough potential providers? These are aspects of the tender procedure. We could have chosen a public facility. In any case, there would have been a certain degree of divergence around the entry into force of the law, because in at least 15 of the 25 regions, where there are now private providers, very far-reaching decisions should be taken. Maybe there should even be expropriation. A possible disadvantage should perhaps be compensated. If no agreement were reached, we would have the discussion about the liability for damages and new public service providers would have to be found. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has therefore opted for continuity. I admit that there is an element of pragmatism in that. That is pragmatism in a bizarre time of crisis where it is so incredibly important to create certainty now. That is an additional argument why continuity can be a very important consideration of this cabinet. It is a mix of private and public services that provide ambulance care under strong public conditions. Let me go over that with you. Ambulance care is a service of general interest. It's been worn out for years. In extending the Temporary Ambulance Services Act, we have established together that it is a service of general economic interest. Since then, there has been no market for ambulance services. There is no competition on the market and there is no competition to the market. On the basis of European law, it is questionable whether a service can be regarded as a NEDAB, depending on the nature of the service and the legislation of the Member State. What is considered economic in one Member State may be non-economic in another. Mrs Ellemeet said: in the end it's about what you choose and what you want to go for. In the Netherlands ambulance care is strictly regulated. There are already many elements in existing legislation that underline that ambulance care is a NEDAB. There is a monopoly for the RAVs within their own security region. Any form of competition is excluded. The rates are set by the Dutch Healthcare Authority and there is a budget cost. Healthcare insurers have very little room for negotiation with the RAVs. In addition, only the two largest insurers in the region make agreements which apply to all insurers. The Minister of Justice and Security can also give the RAV a lead on the deployment of ambulances. The mayor may also give an indication to the RAV in his region in case this is necessary for the purposes of public policy. In addition to the existing elements, the current legislative proposal includes additional measures to clarify and strengthen the status of ambulance care as NEDAB. In this way, RAVs are obliged to use separate accounts if they are also engaged in other activities. Mergers of the RAV and changes in the legal form must be submitted to the Minister for approval. Legal acts affecting control of the RAV must be notified to the Minister. The Minister may appoint directors and withdraw the designation. In addition, the quality criteria are also included in the legislative proposal in the ministerial regulation. This is different from the rest of the care, where there are dangers to the quality criteria set by the care itself, and then when the quality frameworks of the sector itself are sufficient. I have just said that the legislation of the Member State and the nature of the activity also play a role in assessing whether it is eligible for a NEDAB. The consideration of using an ambulance is based solely on care-specific considerations. There are no economic motives here. The Advisory Section of the Council of State, Mr Raemakers, pointed out in its opinion that in the case of non-emergency care, considerations other than the content of care could play a role. But when I look at what happens in practice, I don't share that vision. Care-specific considerations are also the starting point for non-emergency care. A medical indication is always required and an ambulance cannot be used on other grounds. The fact that it's not urgent doesn't mean it can't be a high-complex concern. I am not sure if it is entirely applicable, but Mrs Agema's compelling example actually illustrates that. It is also very difficult and sometimes high complexes, even if you don't immediately think it has a lot of urgency. The Advisory Section of the Council of State also considered that it was not said that it was not an economic service because of the fact that the financing of ambulance services runs through health insurers and RAVs are potentially at financial risk. The finding that a service is to be considered economic does not depend on the method of financing. It is important that there is continuity and that the health insurance provider ensures coherence between ambulance care and the rest. The business risks of an RAV are therefore very limited. As I have just said, the level of the budget is determined by the number of journeys and by the national equal budget parameters set by the Healthcare Authority. There is a loss of revenue and this also finances the agreed budget. Mr. Chairman. All in all, I believe that this legislative proposal meets the requirements as far as possible, based on European law. I therefore believe that ambulance services should be regarded as a non-economic service of general interest. In this context, I also asked for advice from the Land Attorney and the Land Attorney concluded that Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Raemakers asked that Union law should not prevent an indeterminate designation of non-economic activities. They also asked what risks the country's attorney sees. One of the risks is that it might still be considered an economic service. For example, it could be an economic service, because there is profit. But the simple fact that profits are made does not mean that they are directly economic activities. A good example is perhaps that a general practitioner has fixed tariffs via the subscription rate and sometimes also makes sales and a positive plus. One could say that profits will be made, whether or not they are distributed to himself, but yet we do not label a general practitioner as an economic activity. Mr. Chairman. A number of further questions have also been asked by Mr Raemakers on this point. Why didn't we talk to the Commission? That informal route is always open, isn't it? The NEDAB is not covered by the EU Treaties on the basis of Article 2 of Protocol 26 to the Treaty of Lisbon. The Protocol states that the Treaties do not affect in any way the competence of Member States to conduct or organise non-economic activities of general interest. A Member State shall not have an obligation to consult the Commission or to notify such measures. In addition, the European Commission does not assess national legislative proposals from the Member States. There was therefore no reason to contact the European Commission. Moreover, if the European Commission could informally agree with a Member State, that does not mean that there could never be a formal notice of formal notice, even if it was just a statement of the judge who would be consulted in this way. Mr. Chairman. Again, I believe that ambulance services can be regarded as a non-economic service of general interest. I have indicated that additional measures have been taken in this legislative proposal to clarify and strengthen this. In my opinion, this bill is in line with European law. The Court of Justice has not yet ruled on a case which uses the same system as in the legislative proposal. And let us be honest: there is always a risk that the judge will be consulted by a party. Then it's gonna have to show how the judge feels about it. Mr. Chairman. To conclude, I believe that this system can pave the way for good ambulance care, now and in the future. Yes, you can have a fundamental discussion about another model. That is possible, and I agree with Mr Hijink. You can also have a practical discussion and count your blessings, namely that there seems now to be broad support for an approach that takes care of continuity and ensures that quality and innovation take place and that the way is open for ambulance care with a quality that we have achieved so far and which could only be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u89	If I read through the Council of State's reaction between the rules, I have the impression that they are actually finding that the choices the government is making now with a law on ambulances are breaking a little bit with the system that we are further concerned about, namely a system that is market-oriented, competitive and profit-oriented. The Council of State refers to the Court of Justice, the European Court, which states that only a system of full public funding for health care, based on solidarity, could be regarded as non-economic in nature. I therefore believe that the European Court of Justice is actually saying: you can say that a service is non-economic in nature, but it must be within a system that is publicly funded and that is aimed at solidarity, something that is of course not at issue in our system; we have a much more market-oriented care system. Isn't the real problem with this law that it actually breaks with the demands that this government and previous governments have made on our healthcare system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u90	I see that something else. I understand what Mr Hijink means. At the time, I was rather involved in the discussion, including in Europe, about the nature and extent of the Dutch healthcare system and the question of whether it is a public-private or private public. Is it bluish grey or grayish blue... We have had a whole discussion about that in Europe. You can see that in the end our healthcare system makes it possible for the implementation by private parties to take place under strict public conditions. The same is true of the whole Health Insurance Act. Of course, we have had a whole discussion with each other, and we continue to have it, about whether the market is functioning or not. To be honest, I've never felt more at home with that contradiction myself. I remember anecdotally that Minister Hoogervorst, who was then responsible for filing the Health Insurance Act, sighed in this Chamber that he had introduced the most social-democratic law he had ever seen. This had to do with the fact that the discussion was also there about how to make a combination of private implementation and public framework conditions. I believe that this is another example, where it is possible for public and private organisations to operate under public conditions and to describe it as a service of non-economic interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u91	My second question is then whether the Minister is prepared to make sure, in case there are procedures and there will be a discussion or what the Dutch State is actually doing with ambulance services, that there is a plan B in place. When foreign parties come forward, if there are procedures from Brussels to question this system, we have a plan in place. In this way, we do not allow ourselves to get into the situation in which we need to cut down on ambulance services. That is something that I do not think we want either of us to do. I would then like to opt for a plan B in case proceedings are initiated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u92	I think it would go a little far to say on the eve of the adoption of a law that we are also going to talk about what plan B we have in case that law needs to be changed again. I think that's going a little far. Secondly, I also believe that we should discuss with each other in this Chamber the elements that play a role in our judgment. As Mrs Ellemeet said, given the information, you have to choose at some point. You can make all kinds of considerations on the basis of which you choose. Well, that's what you're going for, to put it that way. In my view, we don't need a plan B. It can always be the case, with any bill being passed, that there will be a judge's review once when someone is suing and you have to take the consequences. We'll have to do that then. But I would not like to add uncertainty now if we are on the threshold of finally coming up with a new law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u93	The Minister says that there is no obligation to consult the European Commission beforehand and that it would be difficult in practice to do so, but there are, of course, many ways to approach other European institutions or European lawyers who have a great deal of understanding about this. So what has the cabinet done, apart from consulting the Council of State and the national attorney, to ask more at European level, for example among European lawyers, whether this is in competition law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u94	We have consulted the Council of State, which has an excellent track record in the area of the assessment of legislation, including with regard to European law and the national attorney. You can ask everyone exactly what they think of it, but I believe that Mr Hijink also said: it depends on who you ask which question. We have just gone down the royal road with this bill. We have analysed as closely as possible what European law requires of us. We then asked for advice from the Council of State on this matter. It has made a number of criticisms. We have tried to accommodate them in the new legislative proposal as well as possible. That's where the country's attorney's advice came in. That is enough for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u95	Then let's go to that criticism from the Council of State. For example, it describes the following. An important argument put forward by the government in the explanatory statement is that there is in fact no competition between RAVs. Many of the arguments put forward by the Minister are very much in line with how we set up the system in the Netherlands. This has therefore been a conscious choice of the legislator to ensure that ambulance services in the Netherlands meet a number of conditions. If you then argue that there is no competition, the Council of State says: that is because you designed that system yourself in that way. This would, according to the Council of State, remove the ground under a great deal of government argument. Does the Minister see that, too? And how does he answer that criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u96	The fact that we have had to deal with a system for many years in which we have worked with activities of non-economic interest, and that this has not been challenged or affected so far, shows that there is clearly a basis for this. That's one. Two is that a number of public conditions in relation to the old situation, the Temporary Law ambulance care, have been further strengthened. I don't think you should reverse the argument either. Yes, we are now working under quite a lot of public conditions. You say now: yes, but you make a bill and you refer back to the fact that it is so arranged. But so it is! The fact that we have been working in this way for many years also says something about the growing practice. You can see that there has apparently been no competition in the market or on the market so far. The measures we take only strengthen the public character. This also gives some confidence that this does not have to lead to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u97	Finally, on this point. So that's how we've built the market now. The Minister says: this has been going well for years. But we had also specifically asked whether there were any signals from parties, via e-mails, letters or whatever, from international or national parties, who have already announced that they have objections to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u98	No. Not to mention, we've been talking to a foreign provider who's asked about the ins and outs of the bill. That information has been provided. This has not led to further follow-up actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u99	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u100	Mr. Chairman. The second topic is the ambulance care professional and the ambulance nurse. Many questions have been asked about this, in particular about the fact that we are talking in this law about the ambulance care professional, but do not mention the ambulance nurse as such in the law. As you know, "ambulance care professional" is not a new term. It's already in the current temporary law. That term is used in the bill to do justice to all employees who are already employed in ambulance services. I think there is no doubt that ambulance nurses play an incredibly important role in ambulance care. I wish ambulance nurses wouldn't have to worry about their title, which they just keep. They also continue to be called "ambulance nurse" and their role in ambulance care is de facto retained. However, there are other colleagues working in ambulance care, who also do important work: the nursing centralists in the dispatch room, who are nurses but not ambulance nurses, but also caregivers on the care staff, the bachelors medical assistance and, for example, drivers. Mr. Chairman. So what I would like to do in the bill is to maintain and emphasise the respect and appreciation for the ambulance nurse and also to make it clear that other healthcare professionals, ambulance care professionals, are also doing their work on that ambulance care. I have seen that the Chamber has ideas about this and has thought about it. This has led to an amendment which at least attempts to express the appreciation of the profession on the one hand and appreciation of the fact that other health professionals in ambulance care are also doing an incredibly important job on the other. I would like to comment on the wording of the amendments, but I would like to point out that this amendment meets the requirements that I am demanding: to express appreciation and to preserve the profession and also to show that other healthcare professionals are also active. I think I have already taken a bit of a head start on my interpretation of the amendment. The discussion about the ambulance nurse also reveals another discussion, namely what we actually think of the care differentiation in ambulance care in the broadest sense. I think it is incredibly important for the quality and availability of ambulance services, where, as far as I am concerned, this care differentiation is aimed at reducing the pressure on ambulance care and on the ambulance nurse where it can also be somewhat. We're dealing with a shortage of paramedics. The training assignment for the RAVs for the coming years is considerable: about 310 ambulance nurses, including the BMHs, per year. Ambulance nurses are scarce. From ic's and E.R.'s there is also a lot of nursing expertise. So I absolutely do not want to achieve with that care differentiation that it leads to a quality reduction or erosion of the profession or that we say that it can be a little bit less with the quality of the ambulance. As far as I am concerned, this care differentiation is aimed at providing appropriate care to every care question by the right care provider. It seems to me that this care differentiation can also be in the interest of good employership by, on the one hand, making it possible or making more opportunities to grow in the job or sometimes also by doing the same work on another job, but in which it may be a little more quieter. Given the scarcity of the labour market, I believe that this is very important and the RAVs should be able to offer and develop career prospects in order to be an attractive employer. That whole care differentiation and indicating who does what and what belongs to which position, I want to do through a ministerial arrangement. I am also a little ahead of the amendment tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Veldman. They say: we can imagine making such an arrangement in order to be able to respond flexibly to developments in the profession, but how is the Chamber involved? The amendment tabled by these Members calls for a veil, as the role of the Chamber could be emphasised. I think that's a good idea. I think it also makes it possible for V&VN to take the time in the summer to get this right with the supporters again. Through an internet consultation we will ask for wide coverage. I will then send the ministerial regulation back to the Chamber, so that there is also time for the Chamber to ask questions about, among other things, the interpretation of that care differentiation. As far as I am concerned, we will go through this process with any future change to the ministerial arrangement. This means that the Chamber will always be involved in these changes. Mr. Chairman. Quality and innovation guarantees have been raised by many Members, and perhaps in particular by Mrs Van den Berg. I do indeed believe, perhaps in the situation of a long concession, that continuity is important, but that continuous promotion of quality and innovation should also be guaranteed. Not only at the start, but also in the future. I would point out that the law and the lower regulation impose a lot of quality requirements and other requirements that create conditions for that good quality. The inclusion of quality requirements in the scheme, as I indicated, is additional to what we are used to in the rest of the care. As in the rest of the care, quality frameworks are set up in the ambulance sector, and in view of the NEDAB I lay down a number of requirements and also other requirements that lay down quality frameworks in lower regulation. New are, for example, the requirements of a five-year visitation and learning from the feedback data of the ER. Here too, I refer to Mrs Agema's example, which is that it is extremely difficult to triangulate. That is why it is so important that one part of the quality aspects is for the ambulance services to hear what happened to the patient, so that they can see what they can learn from it for the next time. The lower regulation also explains which expertise requirements the ambulance care professionals have to meet in order to deliver certain levels of ambulance care. The law makes further demands on supervision. The RAVs are also expected to make their performance clear. That will be on the website of AZN. That also stimulates to improve. Because the RAVs now have more certainty about their future, it also pays to further invest in the improvements. The most important external supervisor is the IGJ, with all the tools that serve the IGJ, including the designation, the order, the fine, the burden under penalty and the administrative constraint. In addition, the Dutch Healthcare Authority oversees the duty of care, the health insurance companies and the financial state of the RAVs. The NZa also has a wide sanctioning toolbox, as you know. And as an ultimum remedium, after all that has been deployed and would not have worked, the minister can set up a director or even withdraw the designation. Mr. Chairman. All in all, therefore, I believe that the new system does indeed provide the necessary safeguards to ensure that quality is constantly improved, that benchmarking is carried out, and that consideration is given to how best practices can also lead the further development of the sector. I think that precisely by choosing continuity, with these incentives and supervision in it, we are moving towards a system in which quality and innovation are guaranteed for the future. Mrs. Van den Berg has...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u101	Carry on, I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u102	On this point, Mrs van den Berg has also made a suggestion for a supplement to the evaluation clause. I will come back to the wording of that amendment, but I will also mention the tip of the veil that I think it is important to note in the evaluation that this constant incentive to quality, innovation and learning capacity will also remain in place for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u103	The minister points out the IGJ and the NZa, but they're looking into whether the law is being implemented right now. I am pleased that the Minister responds positively to this assessment, but in the end it is once every five years. We are now talking about quality criteria that would only come up in 2023, so I would like to have a little more information from the Minister on how he can stimulate this continuous quality development. Because "under the law" is different from being in a learning culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u104	With your permission, I will take that into account in the specific answers to the questions you have also asked. That's what I'm taking with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u105	Fine, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u106	I now come to the questions of the various Members, to the extent that they have not already been answered in my general introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u107	Was this a general introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u108	I don't think I understood your question correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u109	No, I'm not. Please continue. Typical VWS, those general introductions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u110	Mr President, I always thought you only did that with one person from VWS, but you do that with everyone. This was my general introduction and I shall now reply to the questions which have not already been raised. I think I have answered some of Mr Hijink's questions concerning the definition of market forces, NEDAB and what they have done. I've also admitted to him equestrianly that it's also a choice. It is a pragmatic choice that we are making now, given the continuity. I think it is fair to emphasise this in that way. I also dealt with his question about the possibility of this being challenged by foreign suppliers. He has also asked how I look at the fact that there are different providers and different working conditions. He has already said that all employees are covered by the same collective agreement. This has been declared universally binding, so there are no differences. All conditions of employment are also the same. I don't think there's and should be any difference. I think that is a positive development, because that has been different, as you know. I think that is a very positive development. Mr. Chairman. He also had a number of questions about profit. Mrs. Ellemeet had one, too. That was a bit of a challenging question, of course. I think you could argue about how you look at this. Of course, a number of choices have been made in the past in the discussion about whether or not profits in healthcare have been made. I think those choices will come to pass. As far as I am concerned, because we are opting for continuity, there is no reason to say at the moment: now we are going to take a separate position on profits in ambulance care. What we are trying to do with this bill is to provide continuity and improve quality and provide some rest and security for employers and workers in ambulance care. I believe that the debate on benefits in health care is still ongoing and that it should also be possible to conduct it. I think that's part of the discussion that the cabinet should be having. I won't be there anymore. That might have its advantages, too. But I do not think it is right to have this general principled debate on profits, or not right up to the edge, on the basis of this draft law, in which we opt for continuity. I realize it's actually a little entrapment, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u111	Yes. But have you answered all of Mr Hijink's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u112	Actually, I do, unless he thinks he doesn't, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u113	Of course, we are not going to have the whole discussion about profit in full width. Hopefully in the autumn we will do that with other rulers. We're talking about this law now. What strikes me is this. It has also been said earlier that fixing for an indefinite period that someone has a particular mission, in the case of a private monopoly, can of course be a little bit of a link. If you, as a private monopolist, know that you have a certain assignment until the end of time and that you can make a profit on it all these years if you choose to do so, there is of course a risk that in those situations where there is a private performer, who chooses to start to save on service, quality and deployment of equipment and personnel in a bit at least, in order to increase that private advantage, that profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u114	There are two things to argue with. I have just tried to mention them as a range of requirements that we impose on the functioning of the RAVs and on the quality requirements that can be imposed on them, the legal requirements that are laid down and are also enshrined in the ministerial regime. So this is not just an idea of the sector; it is also considered and assessed by a ministerial arrangement. I actually hear between the lines that Mr Hijink is now also making a plea for funding and funding by the insurers, who will also look at the financial resources in their contract negotiations with RAV every year and will therefore continue to pay attention to quality and efficiency. It is not, therefore, the case that there will be an everlasting monopoly and that this will be the end of the bargain. No, that is not the end of the matter, because there is supervision, there are quality criteria, there is a ministerial regime and there are insurers, who will indeed continue to pay attention to these cents in terms of quality and efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u115	No, the SP opts for public funding and public implementation of our healthcare system. That's common knowledge. The point is this. What I find strange about the reasoning of the government, but also of various coalition parties, is that it is said: care money must be spent on care. Then I just honestly don't understand why you wouldn't close the last back door that's still open to leaking money out of care. What would be against telling the executives in paramedics: "This is the budget you get. We want it to go to health care. It's fine if there's anything left at the end of the year. We don't have to write red numbers. But if that happens, then that money must flow back into the care itself, into the staff, into the quality of care, into the equipment"? What could possibly be the reason you still have to make money out of it? That money was raised with premiums. We all fear that the premium will go up huge again. We shouldn't do that. If you can save on that by not making a profit, then what's against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u116	I don't think there's anything against it. But it's a simple fact that there's also a constant urge to keep looking at your own business processes, to see if you're doing it qualitatively and efficiently well. This could also lead to cost savings, which you can invest in healthcare again. It happens all the time. There are five e.g., five cooperatives and five foundations, out of the 25 RAV regions, which deal with turnover plus in a different way. This can also lead to efficiency and quality improvement. You yourself have also mentioned a few of them, although I admit that they are not yet very sharp, that there is no real distinction in organizational formation in this respect. It's about the performance that's being delivered. That fact and the fact that we are now opting for continuity and not for yet another structural change in parts of the RAV, which would once again lead to continuity for employers and employees, brings me to that choice. That does not mean that you cannot and should not want to have a discussion about profit in healthcare. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u117	Yeah, but not tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u118	Said the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u119	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u120	Mrs van den Berg said that some of the regions saw an improvement, but in other regions the percentage of journeys within 15 minutes was reduced, as my predecessor wrote. Mrs Van den Berg asked if there was any prospect of improvement. The figures for 2019 will only be available in the autumn in the sector compass ambulance care of Ambulance Care Netherlands, so I have no idea whether the response times have improved. I think it is very important that the parties should also know that they continue to work together to achieve improvements. I didn't experience it in the conversations with Ambulancezorg Nederland any different than they do. We have agreed an action plan with the sector. That runs until the end of 2021. Together, therefore, we are going to work hard for at least one and a half years on the actions agreed in this area, which are aimed at the structural improvement of ambulance care in the Netherlands. I refer to the pilots on coordination of care, on the joint organisation and coordination of the less acute and non-emergency care demand on a regional scale. Ten RAVs have submitted a proposal, whereby at least 100 healthcare providers in various fields of general practitioner care, ggz, community care are partners in order to achieve these pilots. I can tell they're in the starting blocks, too. My impression is that there is a lot of thought and work going on constantly improving the quality of care across the board. At the beginning of 2021, I expect to be able to inform you about the further progress of the Action Plan. Mrs Van den Berg also asked why no response times standard per municipality? I think you can see in general that the sector is looking for standards that are medically and/or scientifically substantiated. That is why I believe that this is a very important issue in the quality framework, for example in the case of a stroke or heart attack, from the beginning of the notification to hospital treatment. Then it's looked at: what exactly do we learn from this? For the next three years, all lead times are measured for all RAVs, with the standard being set on the basis of the five best performing RAVs. This makes the timeliness of ambulance care, in time-critical conditions, and the cooperation of the chain very clear. I think that is a very nice and good development, in which we look at the content of care. We'll see what the quality of paramedics can be. The development of general driving time standards towards the combination of driving time standards and what is needed for a certain triage will be a very important improvement in the quality of ambulance care. Mrs van den Berg also asked about the intention to set up the same emergency number for all emergency services. Soon the charcoal sketch acute care will reach you. That's what it's called, I say to Mr. Hijink, who referred to it a few times. It will address the establishment of that national telephone number for non-life-threatening acute care questions. So you will soon be told about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u121	Have all of Mrs Van den Berg's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u122	Not all of them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u123	Then I suggest you answer it first. Then Mrs Van den Berg will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u124	She raised the question of whether more micus should not be purchased. A micu is not meant to provide hospital care. A micu is meant to carry ICU patients with it. So buying extra micus for ambulance services is, I think, not the indicated route. The discussion will come back when it comes to the scaling-up of the ic's, which we are now investigating with each other. Then we will take with us a possible expansion of the micu capacity. It has also asked a question about cross-border cooperation: what exactly will be on the table there and can that have any consequences? The round table on this subject was scheduled for this spring, but it has not yet been able to continue as a result of the corona crisis. The aim is to plan the meeting this year. But you can imagine that the priority of the parties involved has been mainly in the corona crisis. The aim of the Round Table was to exchange experiences and to propose solutions to experienced bottlenecks, so that cross-border cooperation can be further improved. The main objective of cooperation is to learn from each other and to further optimise the process of cross-border cooperation. There will indeed be talk of mutual recognition of diplomas. At present, there is no provision for changes to the laws and regulations in the Netherlands. But once that meeting has taken place, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I shall come to her question about the evaluation later on, when the amendments are presented. She also asked if I could keep the Chamber informed annually of the steps being taken to improve quality. The RAVs must be publicly accountable every year. This is still regulated in the WTZi and will soon be regulated in the Market Organisation Health Act. They will present their performance data annually on the AZN website and will also include the signals of the quality framework. We will add this, in accordance with your amendment, the five-year evaluation and the accompanying learning culture. The evaluation will of course be sent to the Chamber by my successor. I believe that I have answered many of Mrs van den Berg's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u125	I just took a few notes. With regard to the first question, the following. I am pleased to hear the Minister say that we are going to look at the five best performing regions in terms of medical conditions, so that we can set a medical standard. Only, there is a reason why we have asked for an understandard. Now it is said that 95% must be within 15 minutes. I always say you can't cut it with scissors. We asked written questions about, for example, Gennep in North Limburg, at the beginning of last year. There they were at some point at an average of 67% of the journeys within those fifteen minutes. I do not care that it is cut with scissors, but there is a very big difference between on average 95% and certain municipalities that really go far underground. That was the reason for the substandard. That was my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u126	Mrs van den Berg is, of course, right. You can say that the movement towards the disorders and disease orientation is of course very good. But that does not alter the fact that, of course, timeliness in general must always be part of the urgency. I agree with Mrs van den Berg very much, because even in the case of new emergencies, the ambulance should be on time. That is the aim of the sector itself. If we are going to look at the levels of urgency when we are going to work like this, we simply need to do an impact analysis. What does it mean, for example, for the differences in driving times when you start working like this? I will ask Ambulance Care Netherlands to send me that impact analysis when it is ready and then I will send it to the Chamber immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u127	Of course, it's nice that we're getting an impact analysis. I would just like to point out that in previous debates, the CDA has also adopted a vitality analysis motion. That could perhaps be included, but that aside. This brings me to my second question. It's about the micus, the mobile intensive care units. The Minister is right to say that this is not a replacement for the ambulance. That's not what we're talking about. But we see that some driving times from ambulances to a hospital are quite long and therefore wonder if it can help, even for the reassurance of the people, to have such a mobile intensive care unit in a certain place. I understand that this has happened in the North of the Netherlands as well. If the riding time is long, one can drive there for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u128	I don't rule out the possibility. It really is a different car, so to speak, which in another way cannot easily pick up a patient, because of course there is a lot more equipment in it. It may be good if I simply take this with me in determining the various levels of urgency. We will see to what extent micus can play a role in this. But a warning from me: you can't exactly compare it to a regular ambulance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u129	No, I understand. It's really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u130	Practically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u131	It can be a solution to keep the care accessible. The third question was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u132	How many questions do you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u133	That's my last one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u134	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u135	The Minister refers to the quality frameworks. It is good to have an annual basis for quality frameworks, but I also talked about the quality register. I have just said that, in the opinion of the CDA, this should not be voluntary and voluntary, but that there should be a quality register in every sector, especially in order to stimulate learning culture. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. It's being worked on, but it's all about the sector. In fact, we would like to see this more intrusive and compellingly laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u136	There is a draft report of the quartermaster governance of quality registrations in the making. I have been reported that efforts are being made to achieve administrative coordination with parties in July. Which means the report could be sent to the Chamber after that. Mr. Chairman. I now come to Mrs Ellemeet's questions. She actually embroidered a little bit on whether you could actually apply what we're doing here to the whole care. That is an interesting and sympathetic question. I think that's something for my successor. Moreover, you can see in the broad and also in the opinion of the Council for Health and Society (RVS) that we are now entering a next phase, in which we are more specific about which care needs to be coordinated at what time. It may well be that for parts of the acute care you come to a different system and even a different funding than for other parts of the care. I think the advice of the stainless steel, the charcoal sketch acute care and later also... I've lost the name of the big note that's more about the system. It also examines whether you should distinguish between different forms of care. This may also have consequences for the financing. I therefore consider Mrs Ellemeet's question to be an incentive for the cabinet and my successor to speak urgently about it. Mr President, then the authority of nurses. I think that this is indeed a very important subject, because the control of nurses is very important in the very practical way of looking at what ambulance services should be like in the future and what working relationships should be. The knowledge and skills of the nurses must play a very important role in the choice you make in the organisation of ambulance care. I want to promise her that I will discuss with AZN how to improve the control of employees in the RAVs and that the RAVs will account for this in their annual reports. Then, over the next few years, we can see how it develops. I have already made a comment about the stainless steel report. Then there are the specific questions about medical management. The current laws and directives provide that the nurse specialist does not have all the powers to perform activities that are independently reserved for a doctor. Since you assume these powers in medical management, you can't just invest it with the nurse specialist. I understood her search. She said, "Can't it be that you're doing it more together?" I would like to see if we can stimulate this in a good way. I think I have talked enough about availability and funding. Then there are the remaining questions from Mr Raemakers. I believe that the questions on the economic nature have been sufficiently answered, namely the reasons why it would be a non-economic service. He asked the specific question as to whether the cost and price of ambulance services does not play a role in the purchase by health insurance companies. Hardly. The cost and price of ambulance care play a very different role in the purchase than in the rest of the care. The rates of ambulance care have been set by the Healthcare Authority. We must not deviate from that. Two health insurers per region make the arrangements that apply to all health insurance companies. So it plays a much less role than in the rest of the care. Then there is the question of whether urgency and non-emergency are inextricably linked and what is happening in other countries. I have no idea what it's like in other countries. There is a strong connection between urgent and non-emergency care, as this link enables highly trained professionals to be used as efficiently as possible in both forms of ambulance care and to learn from each other. This is the last time I have done it, but I refer once again to Mrs Agema's example, which is very appealing and touching. It shows how important it is that something may not be an emergency, but that a great deal of expertise is needed, because it may prove to be urgent. Maybe you'll have to transport another way. What that is like in other countries, I have no idea. He asked a few times in different ways if the cabinet has a measurable map of what linking emergency and non-emergency ambulance care to other variants is gonna do. I think he's right. There has been no empirical study of the different variants of the organization. There has been no experiment and I wouldn't know how the division of emergency and non-emergency care could be. We are now firmly in favour of maintaining this link. The five or ten years. In the case of concession granting, it is common practice to take the period of depreciation of the investments as the starting point for a concession period. This is based on Article 18 of the Directive on the award of concessions. Concessions over five years should be limited to the period when the concessionaire could reasonably recoup his investment. Since the depreciation period of ambulances is five years and based on an investment period of five years, ten years would be legally vulnerable if you chose that model. I think that's the simplest explanation for the reason. Let me look at Mr Raemakers to see if I have answered his questions about the legislative proposal sufficiently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u137	In any case, I have two more points that I would like to clarify. First of all, it is about economic character. The Minister states that criteria such as cost and price also play a very limited role in planned ambulance care. The question is whether it could play a role. I think that is the question of European law. When it comes to scheduled ambulance care, 25% of ambulance care, you might imagine that as a health insurance provider you can say: this ambulance provision can be faster on the spot, the patient can move faster from A to B and offers a higher degree of quality. Well, I guess that's possible. If this is the way our proposal is being tested in Europe, do we not have a little more explaining in relation to this planned concern?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u138	I'm sure you'll have some explaining to do, but here too, it's a matter of what you want. You could say: by splitting it, you can perform the care in which there is less urgency and in which you can determine much more business-economically when you do rides a bit easier than the emergency services, which must be ready at night and at night. This also gives a different business model. As far as I am concerned, it would be a disadvantage, including in the funding, if you take it apart in the Dutch situation. It's all put together now, so there can't be someone who takes the currants from the porridge of the rides. You can't, because you have to do urgent business, too. Moreover, it is probably more economical to combine it, because then you have more room for manoeuvre. That is quite apart from the point I have just made, namely that it is probably also very sensible for employees to have a little variation in the work and not just to go for emergency aid or non-emergency assistance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u139	You had another question, Mr. Raemakers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u140	My other question concerns the international competition. I am thinking of ways in which we can further improve the quality and innovation of the Dutch ambulance. The Minister just replied that such an international comparison was not actually made. Would he be willing to make it in the coming time, or hand it over to his successor? In fact, I think that Dutch ambulance services can get even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u141	Of course, I'd like to hand that over to my successor. I'll take a look at this. When we looked at it, we already came to the definition of the area in which the ambulance service is active. First of all, there is a historical context in how it has grown. Is it a public service or a non-public service? That makes the equation rather complicated. But of course it is a good idea to see if we can also make an international comparison around the quality. I'll discuss that with my successor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u142	Finally, Mr. Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u143	Yeah, finally. The minister asked if he'd answered all my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u144	And that's not the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u145	In any case, not the questions about the intended objectives. What I am most curious about is whether the proposal for the five-year visitation should not, for example, be a biennial visitation. With that cup we also had some other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u146	A five-year visitation has been chosen, because that is a kind of usual visitation term. If every year or every two years involves a major visitation, this gives rise to a great deal of administrative burdens. Other areas of care, for example the BIG Act, also have a period of five years. I would also point out that, in addition to this five-year visit, we will of course also be receiving quality reports. In it, we can see how it develops every time. I think that the combination of this report and a large visitation every five years could provide a good system. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to Mrs. Agema. She asked whether there was not a multitude of job titles and professions. That is always a danger, but I actually think that there is now a clear number. The ministerial regulation states exactly who is responsible for what tasks. These differences make it possible to use the right care provider as best as possible on every care question. They are based on the quality frameworks of the sector itself, created by AZN, V&VN and medical managers. It is therefore a function format developed by practice. Her question was whether investment in people and equipment was too low due to the long uncertainty with the temporary law. I do not have that impression, but she is right: one of the arguments for providing long-term security is that it will at least be easier and more transparent to make long-term investments. Training activities continued and the necessary equipment could be purchased. But I am pleased with her if I may translate it in such a way that this clarity will come about when we adopt this law, so that there will be more ground for long-term investment as well. She also asked about the 15 minute standard and the improvement plan. I have just given Mrs van den Berg the necessary answers. Every year the RAVs provide insight into their performance. Visits take place every five years, but they do not replace the regular monitoring that takes place permanently and do not wait until the quality reports arrive. That happens all the time. Then she asked if the patient could be more involved in the choice of the location where the patient is being transported. Now the patient is involved in the location where he or she is taken, but that is not always possible, especially when it comes to life-threatening situations. In such a case, the ambulance nurse needs to be tried immediately and knows exactly where a patient with a specific condition can go best. Mr. Chairman. As a result of the example she gave, she linked her question a bit to the seven levels of urgency, I think Mrs Agema is just right. On the one hand you try to protocol the triage as best you can by distinguishing the levels, so that we can also see exactly how that happens, but at the same time it remains a very heavy and difficult subject, in which you have to learn again and again. So I think the combination is good: always ensure good driving times, but also find out how to improve and strengthen the triage even further, so that the ride always arrives in the right place and with the right timing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u147	Those were all Mrs. Agema's questions? Or do you have any more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u148	This is what they were.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u149	I would like to thank the Minister for his recognition of this complex situation. But what's gonna happen to those Task Force Urgenties? Of course, it has consequences if you acknowledge that it is very difficult to use triage because the practice is much more uncomfortable. Then you'd actually have to do something with that task force and those seven urgents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u150	You could say that these urgencys were made on the basis of what is happening in practice, with the participation of the opinions of the professionals. That has led to the question of whether you should work with those seven emergencies. But what's more important is what the impact of that is. Can you estimate whether it'll help or not? That is also why I would like to ask AZN to do that impact analysis and send it to me, so that I can send it to the Chamber and we can see if it has added value to work in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u151	But will it first be widely implemented and evaluated? Or is it first introduced on a small scale and then evaluated? I was approached in the hallway by someone who works here in the building. This person was very emotional and said, "My father didn't make it." He died the next morning at home from an aneurysm. That assessment is very complicated. Before you go into something like this nationwide, you need to know exactly if something like that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u152	I will see if the impact analysis can take into account that introduction period and the way in which you want to introduce it. I am also concerned about knowing very well what these urgent issues mean, whether they lead to an improvement in ambulance care and their impact on the longer term. So I will certainly include her question in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u153	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u154	Then Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u155	Fieldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u156	Then Mr Veldman, indeed. He asked, quite rightly, how we can ensure that quality and innovation are well secured. I have just indicated that it is very important that, if you choose this model, you pay extra attention to whether there are sufficient incentives for quality and innovation in the system. I think that quality and innovation can be well secured in a few ways. As I said earlier, RAVs will no longer have to deal with the question of whether they will be able to provide ambulance services in a few years' time, which may make them more reluctant to invest in innovations. Healthcare insurers retain their role in the care purchase of ambulance care and can therefore, from their role, stimulate quality and innovation. There's a five-year visitation and there's a feedback from the ER. The demands of the visitation and the final person responsible are laid down in the ministerial regulation. As I said earlier, I can appoint a director if a RAV does not follow a lead or an order and the provision of ambulance services in the region is at risk. As a final measure, I can withdraw the designation. I have told you what conditions we all make for the contribution to quality, for example with these separate accounts, internal supervision and the approval of the Minister for Mergers. All in all, therefore, I think that his legitimate concern about how we can ensure quality not only at the start, but structuralally, is adequately secured in this way. How the visitation committee will check for quality improvement is of course up to the visitation committee. But I imagine that the quality frameworks, which may be renewed and further developed, will be tested. I think I've already answered a little bit of his question about what happens in the event of a bad assessment. Normal supervision is carried out, with all the supervisory tools available to the IGJ for this purpose. If appropriate, the Minister may appoint a director or withdraw the designation at the latest. I actually think I did the other questions on European affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u157	Thank you for the explanation. I think that we agree, also with the Minister's explanation, that there are sufficient safeguards in the law if you find it at any point in time. Then you could eventually even withdraw the clue. It's good to hear there's just a limit to it. But of course my question also focused on how to measure and encourage that you not only meet the minimum of what we normally think, but that you continue that step every time, like an athlete every time trying to run a little faster that 100 meters. I understand that this is difficult to establish in laws and regulations, but that is the challenge you need. Normally, when you know there's competition and when you know it's finite, because it's a limited contract and then you have to show again that you're really the best boy in the class. How do we ensure in a good way that you constantly have that incentive to be the best boy in the class?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u158	We do that in two ways. On the one hand, we do this by promoting and encouraging the responsibility of the sector itself. The sector makes quality plans and the standards it develops are based on the best five. You get a continuous process of quality assurance and measurement. Each time it is not the general, average standard that is considered, but the best practices. I think that's very important. Two is the health insurance company. By continuing to play a role in the financing and financing of ambulance services, they can also make comparisons between the different RAVs. In this way, their purchasing policies can encourage them to introduce some incentives if you are left behind, to ensure that you are aiming for that quality improvement. Of course, we will have to follow it together, but I think these are two very important rules of the game. I would like to add that in the short time I have been here, I have had some discussions with the ambulance sector, the sector and the umbrella organisation. I very much noticed that they were very passionate and involved in the view that they have a great responsibility in this new system. On the one hand, this system requires more guarantees from the public authorities. But there is a greater responsibility for them to perform and to strive for continuous improvement in quality. I have faith in that. Finally, Mrs Ploumen. Her simple question is: how can we ensure that standards are met everywhere in the Netherlands? That is important in itself, because of course you have to be able to count on good ambulance care everywhere in the Netherlands. But that is actually why I make so many demands in the law and in the lower regulation, with all the sanctions and external supervision that are being used for that. I would point out that we also need to look more broadly than the fifteen-minute standard. It's very important, but it shouldn't just be about the driving time. Quality is, of course, a much broader concept. It says something about the timeliness of care, but I think it should be seen in a much broader set of quality requirements that are going to be set. In 2018, the average driving time was less than ten minutes. It does not mean that there is no improvement, but the number of rush journeys within fifteen minutes is about below 95%. I told you, these improvement plans are being made. A better spread of ambulances is a hard thing to do with that. There is a structural increase of 10 million for staff training. Quality impulses have already been given. I have great expectations of the industry's action plan, which, despite all the fuss, has been addressed by the sector itself and which uses the standard of the five best as a standard for the whole sector. Mr. Chairman. Then her support for the law to include the nurses in the law somehow. I've already mentioned that, I think. Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to the amendments. I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 12. That's been replaced, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u159	Yes, because of the amendment to item No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u160	Yes, that will be the amendment in part No. 20. I am therefore in favour of Amendment No 2. 13 on care differentiation. It is proposed that the ministerial arrangement be submitted to both Chambers of the States-General. So there is a veil proposed there. I can imagine that the Chamber would like to talk about the care differentiation and possibly the release of forms of ambulance care, which is an important element in that ministerial arrangement. This also gives additional possibilities as a result of the internet consultation. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then we have the amendment to item No. 14. It proposes replacing "Ambulance Services Act" by "Ambulance Services Act." I believe that the proposers have found a good balance between ambulance care on the one hand and facilities on the other, in which the public character is again expressed. So I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 15 on the prohibition of distribution of profits. I have argued in my speech that this should be part of a broader debate. With the choice we have now made for continuity, it does not seem appropriate to have this discussion here now with all the consequences. That is why I would advise against the amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 16, which proposes that the RAVs should not only provide information on ambulance services but also on their costs. This seems to me to be an important addition, also in view of the debate we have had on the permanent incentive for quality and innovation. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 19. That's a proposal to give the paramedics a place in the law. I consider this amendment to be a support for the idea that, on the one hand, we want to maintain appreciation and recognition and, on the other hand, we also need to make it clear that other healthcare professionals are also doing very important work. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u161	This is the amendment to item No. Turned 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u162	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. He had changed indeed, for which thanks. I now come to the amendment to item No. 20. That is actually a different proposal. Mrs Ploumen wants to arrange the care differentiation per AMvB. We have provided an impact in the quality frameworks. When I was talking about the ministerial arrangement, I just voted in favour of the other amendment. That is why I reject Mrs Ploumen's amendment. Mr. Chairman. I have now come to the end of my speech. I think that this law is a final part of a discussion that has been going on for years. Let us also count the blessings of all the different views on how care should be organised, whether with more or less market forces or whether there should be market incentives. I think we need to take a clear step now to ensure that the staff in the ambulance service are safe. We choose continuity, especially in this difficult time of the corona crisis. We opt for a more public character of the NEDAB, while maintaining quality, innovation and incentives for efficiency. We offer security to employees and employers. In this difficult labour market and this particular time of crisis, it is very important to adopt this law together now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u163	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u164	I just had such lovely last words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u165	I thought, "Wait a minute."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u166	The last hour was also the Prime Minister's press conference, and as a result I was working on two things at once. Sorry about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u167	I know my place, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u168	Well, you've done a lot of work for it, too. I was wondering if the Minister had gone into my question as to whether emergency aid and emergency obstetrics should not also be classified as a non-economic service of general interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u169	I have tried to answer that by another way. I think that we may have to discuss aspects of acute care even more broadly on the basis of the charcoal sketch and the contour note. Your Chamber has asked you to take stock of the state of the system and see whether it also has consequences for the financing and financing of parts of the care. The conclusion may then be that you may also have to distinguish between parts of the care in terms of funding and financing. Let's see what this law brings. Some experience has already been gained and we are now going to gain new experience. In the outline note, we are generally discussing what we can learn from the current phase of the system. This will undoubtedly be the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u170	I see this as the promise that the successor of the Minister will return to this question in the contour note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u171	Then in the charcoal sketch, because it responds, among other things, to the advice of the stainless steel about how to organise the acute care in the Netherlands. These opinions raise a number of questions of this kind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u172	Okay. Then I'm not filing a motion. I then assume that in that contour note there is a need to consider more functions as a NEDAB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u173	I'm jumping a little over... now. I was gonna say "my shadow out," but that's gotta be "over my grave." I will put this question to my successor, but I know that attention is paid to it in that note on acute care and that advice from the stainless steel industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u174	That is a commitment which Mrs Agema does not have to make a motion, Mr Raemakers!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u175	Maybe I didn't browse fast enough, but I thought the Minister hadn't given an appreciation of the amendment in part No. 18.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u176	The evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u177	The amendment on evaluation has, in my view, been given a Chamber. We're not done yet, because we also have a second term. I thank the Minister and give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers. Nice and fast! That's something else. We're not used to it always being like that. Mr. Chairman. I think it's important that we proceed with this law. It is linked to two thoughts, and that is problematic. I hope that will not cause problems in the future. We've talked about it in detail. We would like to organise something, just to be sure, in case procedures are being initiated and pressure is being put on the cutting-up of ambulance services. I would like to table the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that it is undesirable for ambulance services to be cut up;]] [[noting, however, that the present draft law on ambulance services does not make this impossible;]] [[noting that if ambulance care is organised as a public service provision, such cutting-up of ambulance care is not possible;]] [[calls on the Government to have a plan ready to turn ambulance services into a public facility at the time when procedures are put in place to cut down ambulance services,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u179	I've got a lot to tell you, but I see I've only got a minute left. I shall therefore proceed quickly, because I would like to table two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are not always annual reports available from ambulance providers and that half of the Regional Ambulance Facilities (RAVs) do not have any financial information publicly available;]] [[Considers that understanding of these data is important, especially when it comes to understanding whether or not profit distribution is taking place in ambulance services;]] [[Calls on the Government to ensure that the RAVs publish an annual report including financial information as of today;]] [[invites the government to provide insight into all information from all RAVs regarding the distribution of profits in ambulance care over the past five years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u180	Mr. Chairman. The last motion is also one in the framework of iron forging when it is hot. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in both acute care and all other care sectors, each euro for care should also go to care;]] [[noting that the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) questions the payment per operation and that many doctors are not yet employed;]] [[noting that the CPB states that we can save half a billion euros a year if all medical specialists are employed, money that can then be used for healthcare in a different way;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a proposal to allow all specialists to work as an employed person and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the budget review 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for answering all the questions. I always say that care should be available, affordable and accessible. Today we discussed this accessibility in particular. I am pleased that the Minister is going to see acute care in the charcoal sketch to see if the mobile intensivecare unit can also get a place or is needed to keep the care accessible, especially in the region. It will be clear that in the debate we focused in particular on how to keep the incentive for innovation and the incentive to constantly improve in this sector, now that we are going to issue an open-ended permit. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that ambulance care should be of good quality throughout the Netherlands and should also continue to work on quality improvement and a learning culture;]] [[Whereas a joint quality register can play an important role in this;]] [[Whereas field parties are responsible for jointly assessing the quality register to be established;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the sector to establish a joint quality register as soon as possible and to inform the Court of Justice of the time limit for doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Berg, Agema and Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks for the answer. Fine, clear, to the point and content: great. I've got three motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nurse control in the regional ambulance facilities has not yet been secured everywhere;]] [[Whereas the contribution of nursing expertise can also have a positive impact on the quality of care and the working pleasure of nurses in the ambulance;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with the regional ambulance facilities and agree that the regional ambulance facilities set out in their annual accounts how they have secured the control of ambulance nurses and other ambulance care professionals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the medical manager of ambulance services in the Twaz and in the current bill can only be a doctor, registered in Act BIG under Article 3;]] [[having noted that in the meantime the nurse specialist (Law BIG, under Article 14) in some regional ambulance facilities fulfils all this function of medical manager ambulance care;]] [[noting that the tasks of the ambulance medical manager can be carried out perfectly by the nurse specialist while maintaining the current quality level;]] [[calls on the Government to give the nurse specialist in the explanatory memorandum to the ministerial scheme a role in the medical management of the regional ambulance facilities, together with the doctor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that procurement via the representation model in ambulance care is continued in the new Ambulance Services Act;]] [[Whereas procurement through the representation model could also lead to increased cooperation in other sectors of care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of introducing regional healthcare procurement through the representation model in other sectors in the Health Insurance Act and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-26]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-27]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u183	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. What I might have found most interesting about this debate was the explanatory statement on when something is a non-economic service of general interest. Indeed, the Minister says very clearly that we are dealing with this ourselves. If I have understood the Minister correctly, that offers a lot of opportunities to look again at where we would like to do that and what that could mean for procurement in healthcare. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u184	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we finally talked about the new ambulance bill. As mentioned above, D66 supports the intention to clarify the sector. However, we do have concerns about the legal basis. Those concerns have been partly removed; sometimes we have heard some really new things from the Minister. But in part we are also concerned because sometimes they were also arguments that we had already read in the written reply. It remains legally uncertain on a number of points, such as whether or not NEDAB, whether or not it is economic and whether or not it is inseparable. It is a pity that no advice has been sought from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. We wonder if that is not possible. Is there no other way to obtain European advice? If a national court has doubts about the application of Union law, it may refer the matter to the Court for a preliminary ruling, as we call it in legal jargon. It would be very good if a national Member State could also contact us at European level. Perhaps that discussion will continue in the First Chamber. Don't worry, Mr. Chairman, I'm not filing any motions. No way! However, I have two more questions that have not yet been answered. The first question was how much view the RAVs have on the quality of care that a subcontractor provides. The second question was what impact the opinion of the Health Council Committee on the review of the 45 minute standard could have on the organisation of ambulance care. Mr Hijink's motion for a resolution. Maybe we can stop a motion there. This is also an important point for D66. In the coalition agreement, we agreed that we would increase the promotion of workers' specialists or the participation model. I would actually like to ask the Minister what progress has been made on this part of the coalition agreement. That was our input today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u186	Thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Mr Veldman has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u187	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for answering my questions in the first term. It's good to hear how he looks at that quality assurance. I think we can find each other in how it's formulated now. However, I would like to ask a question on one point. I also have a tightening-up, for which I have a motion. The question is whether the Minister, a little more explicit than he just did, can name how the look is taken in from the outside. He referred, among other things, to the health insurers. I understand that, but they are sometimes a bit reluctant because they don't want to be blamed for sitting in the chair of the professional. How do we secure that look from the outside in? If you want to organise innovation properly, it also requires registration of a number of things. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that quality requirements and marginal requirements are included in this legislative proposal and in the ministerial regulation and a comprehensive toolbox for the IGJ, the NZA and the Minister to intervene if the quality or availability of ambulance services is at stake;]] [[noting that an indeterminate designation may mean that the RAVs feel less incentives for innovation in ambulance care;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in the Ministerial Arrangement that all RAVs in the annual sector compass ambulance services show the progress of their performance on quality requirements compared to the previous year and that they provide information for an innovation section in this sector compass;]] [[calls on the Government also to ensure that in the ambulance sector there is continued development of the quality framework for ambulance care, in which innovation has a visible place, and to inform the Chamber annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35471-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his clear words. Not a word too little, but certainly not a word too much. I am glad that we are now at this stage in the process of dealing with this law and that we are moving from a temporary law to stability. I think that at a time when we owe so much to the ambulance staff and the care staff, we are tasked with providing good, stable, sharp legal frameworks within which they can do their job. I am glad that the ministers have removed doubts about this, should we have already had them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u189	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. It is striking how relieved everyone is that a debate on an important subject can also be brief. That's very good. Then I'll see if he can answer. The Minister's requesting a five-minute suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u190	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u191	Mr President, thank you. A brief response to the motions tabled and the questions that have been asked. I'll start with the SP. The first motion, in part No. 22, is about whether we are making provisions when there is a procedure for cutting things up. I think that if a procedure were to be discussed, we would decide after the ruling what the analysis is and what options remain. I think it is too early to speculate on this now. That is why I would like to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 23 by Mr Hijink on the annual reports. The annual accounts must be submitted to the CIBG. It's public on the basis of the WTZi. That's what's gonna happen. I admit that requires some searching, so we will see if we can bring that to the attention of the public even more transparently. I would like to make a request to Mr Hijink for an opinion on his motion, namely on the operative part which states that we will then give an insight 'in all the information for the last five years'. The obligation of those five years was not there yet, and this is a lot of information that we may not be doing much with. So if he wanted to delete that passage, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber. Otherwise, unfortunately, I will have to discourage the motion, and I really don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u192	That's because you can't actually find that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u194	Okay. Then we have to do that, and then the other part stays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u195	Then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 24 under the heading "hand grenade'. Oh, no, under the heading "wage service." This is another clear expression of the opinion of the SP. I think it will be discussed again in the near future, but I do not think it is right to adopt this motion in this debate. So I'd like to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 25 belongs to the CDA. It calls on us to encourage the sector to set up a quality register. I am going to promise Mrs van den Berg that I will discuss this with AZN. In the context of reducing the administrative burden, I would like to discuss how this could be done a little lean-and-mean, for example in the already existing sector compass ambulance care. If I can read that motion like that, I'll leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 26 from GroenLinks on agreements with the RAVs that they explain in their annual accountability how they have secured the control of the ambulance professionals and nurses. I have already indicated in the debate that I agree with Mrs Ellemeet that this is a very important element. I also think it would be a good idea to talk to AZN about this. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the motion from GroenLinks to part No. 27. We are asked to state in the explanatory notes in the scheme that the nurse specialist together with the doctor can play a role in the medical management of the RAV. I have already indicated that the ministerial regulation will include who may be the final medical officer. I do think that nursing specialist can play a good role. You have also said yourself that it is a doctor, but in some situations it can be done. I think that her suggestion to include this in the explanatory statement is a good one and I leave it to the Chamber to decide. Then the motion to part No. 28 whether there are other models of representative care buying in in acute care; perhaps in the whole care, she said. I think it is a good thing that I am referring here the last time to the charcoal sketches and outline notes that are coming and in which this type of discussion is taking place. I would also point out to her that this availability benefit is already provided by the general practitioners, the acute ggz and also the ambulance services. This discussion will then continue, but at the moment I would like to advise against the motion. Then there is Mr Raemakers' question about consistency. He asked if there was any progress in that. As you know, an arrangement has been put in place to promote equality in forms other than membership. Not too much use has been made of that, he said with an understatement. That means, I refer to Mr Hijink.... that this discussion could of course be held, but it does not seem to me to be the result of this ambulance law. Then there is his question as to whether the RAVs have an insight into the quality of the subcontractors. Every year the RAVs have to make their performance visible on the website of Ambulancezorg Nederland. These are the performance of the RAVs as a whole, including the performance of subcontractors. So the RAVs should have a visual on that, too. That will be transparent in that way. Then his question as to whether the opinion of the Health Council Committee leads to a review of those 45 minutes, or if that also has an impact. I expect the Health Council's advice in September. So I wouldn't want to get ahead of that now. It is, of course, conceivable that this opinion will have consequences. This means that it should have consequences for the ministerial arrangement. In that case, it will have to be adjusted, of course, after the Chamber has had its say on this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Veldman's question about the outside view. There are many cans from the outside. I have tried to indicate that it is both the health insurance companies and the Health Care Inspectorate and the NZa, and in the visitation also the other RAVs, who look from that discipline. And then there are the hospitals and the general practitioners, with a feedback from the ER. So I think we've organized enough cans from outside. But let's see how that develops over time. In this context, Mr Veldman has tabled another motion on quality standards. It calls for continued development in the ambulance sector, in which innovation has a visible place, and for the Court to be informed annually. I think that is in line with our common goal. It is precisely now that we must ensure that quality and innovation are guaranteed in the future. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u196	Then I would like to thank the Minister very much for his answers. Many compliments have been made on the clarity and the concrete answers to the questions. I hope we can hold on to that, especially at VWS. We hope to see you again before you finally do something else. Yeah, we got two weeks left. I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-24-tweedekamer-6.u197	On the legislative proposal, but also on the amendments and the motions, we will be voting next Tuesday.
