ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u1	Let us now turn to the second question. This is from Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. The question is about fraud in language courses for citizens. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gift certificates from the Media Market, free laptops, cash money: welcome to the world of integration, with cheating language agencies and students who make deals. Language school holders make grateful use of the free market model, in which every cowboy can set up a language school. They then collect thousands of euros per student. You can collect up to €10,000 per person. Thankfully, these figures will collect our taxpayers' money without any return. These kind of desks are still being set up. We even see schools that, to a large extent, exist only on paper. What a perverse system and what a waste of taxpayers' money. Mr President, my questions. How much money was wrongly paid out? Is it indeed a question of millions of euros, as the Volkskrant states in his research last weekend? Is the Minister going to recover this money? Does the Minister acknowledge that the current system of integration is bankrupt? Can he guarantee that the new system, which he will soon come up with and which gives the municipalities a greater role, will no longer prevent fraud? Unfortunately, these commercial language agencies are still possible. That is why my final question is: how will the Minister supervise those language offices which also remain under his new law? Is he going to use the educational inspection instead of the controversial Blik op Werk, which is more of a toothless tiger?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u3	I call the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank Mr Jasper van Dijk for his questions. It's not the first time we've talked about this subject. It has been discussed a number of times in recent years. In September, I sent you another progress letter with the third monitor on this type of fraud. A great deal of action has already been taken to combat fraud in the past period. For example, the abolition of pre-invoicing by language schools, stricter supervision of prospective language agencies that just join, but also the introduction of financial supervision of language agencies. Having said that, I have always indicated on this subject that, as Mr Jasper van Dijk rightly says, there are perverse incentives in the system. In the case of collusion between the citizen and the language agency, it is very difficult to prove that there is fraud. That is also the reality that we, as supervisors, are running into. I think of DUO, Blik op Werk and the Inspection SZW. Last year, the Inspection SZW developed a framework to make the most common forms of fraud understandable and how best to act on it. We are now putting that into practice. And that's what we do get bad guys with. I have a few figures for you. During the past period, 16 language schools have withdrawn the Blik op Werk-label. Those language schools are therefore no longer able to bill and therefore no longer receive any money. Nine language schools have been suspended. If you put these figures together, it means that about 10% of the language offices now have a suspicion of fraud against them. That is, of course, unacceptable; I fully agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk. That is why we are now switching to a new system. Very soon, I will be able to inform your Chamber of the new law of integration. I'd like to treat them very quickly. In this new system, the municipalities are going to buy from the language offices, allowing them to assess and control the quality, so that there is no room for these kinds of structures of conspiracy between the citizens and the language agencies. Then there's the last question. The supervision remains at Blik op Werk but will be much tighter as the municipality purchases for quality and can check whether there are lessons and whether the quality of the goods offered is good and there is no fraud. That is much better than it is now, where the citizen himself has to find out which language agency he signs up to and is vulnerable to fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister is conveniently getting away from answering a question from me, namely whether he acknowledges that the current system of integration is bankrupt, the current system that is a child of the then ministers Verdonk and Asscher and others, who all felt it necessary to introduce market forces into this integration. I think that, with the umpteenth publication in the Volkskrant last Saturday, we should really learn lessons now and say: that market operation was a big mistake, we should not do that. As far as my party is concerned, we see integration, as well as education, as a public task. You shouldn't allow commerce in that at all. The minister's doing half the work with his law now. He gives the municipalities a bigger role, which is good, but those commercial offices remain. The question is: can he guarantee that this kind of fraud will actually disappear or can he not? As far as I am concerned, he should at least take very good care of supervision and guarantee it by using the education inspection to do so, and not an agency like Blik op Werk, which is very controversial and is seen as a toothless tiger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u6	Point 1. I indicated in the first period of my reply that there are a lot of perverse incentives in the current system. I have therefore implicitly answered Mr Van Dijk's question: the current system is indeed not working properly, it encourages fraud and it has perverse effects, for example on the language level of citizens. That's too low. People want to make the loan a gift very quickly, and so they often take exams at a low language level. I also find that a perverse incentive, because that reduces the chance to participate in Dutch society. That too is an excrement of the current system. The fraud comes to that, as it were. I very much agree with that. That's why I created a new system. That's what I'm trying to offer to your room soon. The second question is: can the Minister rule out the possibility that there will be no more fraud? No, I'm afraid I can't. When there is public money, there are always people who want to take advantage of it. Think turboliquidations. We come across the most creative forms. There is, however, a fundamental difference in the new system. An individual citizen, who is just in the Netherlands, doesn't speak the language, gets a DigiD code and €10,000 budget, has to buy from a language agency in the current system. That's what all these shady characters, those cowboys, are playing into. In many cases, they abuse the vulnerable situation of those people. We can't do that in the new system anymore. That is pure profit, I think, because the municipality is going to buy in on the basis of quality, but also looking at whether it is a legitimate language provider: is it a proper agency that offers this? I think that is really the biggest profit of the new system in the fight against fraud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u7	We're gonna wait for the Minister's new law. We're gonna treat him. We're all gonna see that. But I also asked the Minister what he will do with the fraud found. Is it true, as the Volkskrant says, that millions are involved? Is he going to recover that money? Finally, I asked about Blik op Werk. My advice to the Minister is: stop it. For this purpose, use the independent education inspection. That's a renowned institution. That's what we need for something as important as integration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u8	As far as the first question is concerned, if you will allow me, at the end of June, I will present a follow-up letter on integration, with all the signals of fraud that have entered the SZW inspection or on which the Public Prosecutor's Office has initiated prosecution. They are neatly put together, with an assessment of the number of fraud signals. It remains very complicated to estimate what has been wrongly paid out, especially when it comes to conspiracy. It is the hardest thing to find out and map when a citizen is associated with a language agency. But at the end of June I will come up with a progress letter. That'll be the fourth. In it all figures are put in a row and in it everything is made clear. The second question... What was the second question again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u9	It was about the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u10	Oh, yeah, the inspection. Once again, I think that the 'Blik op Werk' mark, which we have also reinforced again with input from the education inspection, will really be given a different role in the new system, because the municipalities are going to buy the lessons from the language offices. Amsterdam, which I have already mentioned a few times with Mr Paternotte, Amsterdammer, is already listing bona fide language agencies that deliver good quality, are affordable and do not allow fraud, so to speak. That is the model that I have in mind with the new system, in which you no longer have these strange incentives, but in which you can still get and offer good language education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u11	We will soon have the debate on the new Law on Integration, which at least gives the municipalities a greater role. That's essential, an important step, but it's not the whole story. As far as I am concerned, you could have removed the entire market from integration. We may be able to do so by means of amendments, but we shall begin the debate. Let's say goodbye to this terrible fraud as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr President, may I join in on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u14	I'd really like that, too. If your Chamber would like to arrange that very quickly, I am very pleased.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u15	Well, look at you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u16	That's how we agree on something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u17	That's right. Thank you. Then I have on my list: Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK, Mrs Becker on behalf of VVD and Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66. By the way, he's not an Amsterdammer anymore, is he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u18	No, he lives in Leiden these days, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u20	How's that, Mr. Paternotte? How nice!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u21	Good. I am going to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u22	This Minister is, of course, to be praised for wanting to say goodbye to the integration policy of Verdonk and Asscher as soon as possible. It is important for the new Law to be introduced, because the old system was based on abuse. Abuse of community money and misuse of resources that were actually intended for shared ambition here in the Chamber and in society, namely to ensure that people learn the language as quickly as possible. Mr. Chairman. We have read and we have also received signals about a lot of abuses at fraudulent agencies. Has there been any persecution so far? Did a measure of punishment come out of that? Because I get the impression, when I read the article and the signals, that an integration agency is closed and that they can then continue under another name. Will it therefore be possible in the new legislation to allow those people and any successors...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr. Kuzu!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u24	... totally exclude from offering these services?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u25	I said before Question Time that everyone has half a minute. You've been at one minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u26	Mr President, I am far past my time. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u27	Well, it applies to everyone, not just you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u28	For me, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u29	So far, so good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Persecution. Yeah, there's been occasional prosecutions. The D.A.'s gonna press charges. That's what the press gets from time to time. There's been raids. People have been convicted of fraud involving integration money. I cannot make too many announcements about this, because it remains a responsibility of the Public Prosecutor. Every now and then, this also reaches the press. I indicated once before, I think, six months ago in a debate that there were a number of cases of persecution. Secondly, the penalty. It starts, of course, with the withdrawal of the label. If the label Blik op Werk is withdrawn, the language school can no longer send invoices and therefore no longer commit fraud. That's one. A second is that you often see that the old owner of the language office lets the language office go bankrupt and a new start-up. That is why we have said: there is additional supervision of the prospective hallmark holders, the newly established language offices. We have also said that there can no longer be pre-invoiced, precisely to prevent this type of carousel fraud, to name but a few. So we're trying to tackle that along different lines and we're trying to stop it. But I very much agree with Mr Kuzu: it starts with the perversion in the system itself. We need to get them out, and that's why my new law. Once again, I hope that we will deal with it quickly; if I have sent it to the Chamber, of course, because you are still waiting for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u31	We have been having the debate with the Minister on the extreme fraud in integration since 2018. In fact, the Minister keeps saying: it is the system, it is the system; I come up with a new system and then it will be better. The VVD thinks it's mostly people's fault. Because you'll only have to come new to the Netherlands, settle in and think you can do that by shuffling through, instead of just trying your best. Well, it's so shocking that only 17 of those people, according to previous letters from the minister, have been caught for that. The minister says it's very difficult to catch these people. But I think you need to take tougher measures and just have to be punished harder. Can the Minister withdraw the citizenship more often? And question two: can he increase the chances of catching up, even in the new system, by organising more supervision through the education inspection? I received a letter today from the language providers. That's what they want, too. There are good language agencies that say: put us under tighter supervision, then we get those cowboys out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mrs. Becker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u33	So the Minister wants to take people harder and organize better supervision? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't in the Lower House for so long...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u34	No. I missed you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u35	I had to get rid of it, but I'm gonna keep my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u36	Well, you don't have to. And knowing you, you're certainly not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u37	Of course, I agree with Mrs Becker that if people try to cheat and try to get through it, they need to be dealt with. We keep seeing, and that's actually where the prosecution is mostly, that it's the owners of the language agencies who are trying to cheat the place. The vulnerability lies with citizens who come to the Netherlands, who do not speak the language, who do not know where to go and who also do not know the way to systems and offices. That is precisely the vulnerable group that is often the victim of this fraud. The example that was also mentioned in the Volkskrant interview was: a deal is being made, someone now gets cash money and then gets an exemption from his obligation to integrate. Neither does Mrs. Becker. I don't want to. That's what we need to fight. But the fact that these incentives are so perverse that people can take that money is really in the system. Apart from that, parties who really fraud with Community money must be punished. Hence the whole of the SZW, DUO and Blik op Werk inspection and the cooperation with the Public Prosecutor's Office, where all the signals that have been collected and where actively prosecuted to combat this fraud are being actively prosecuted. I can send you a detailed letter every quarter or every four months on this subject, giving an overview of what has come in and what has happened to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u38	Then Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u39	Mr. Chairman. Let me point out that I am happy to look back at the time that I was still living around the corner. I heard the minister say that Leiden is the most beautiful city in South Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u40	From South Holland, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u41	I wanted to say above all that it is nice that there is actually only one party in this entire House of Representatives who still says that we have a good citizenship law, namely the PVV. I think that's a fantastic incentive to get that new law through very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u42	I've heard you say it too, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u43	That's a very good reason. Let us note that in the end the problem is that there are cowboys who can make use of the fact that people who don't even speak Dutch have to figure it out themselves, that that principle simply doesn't work. I just think it's hard to say that we've got 12 months left with this and there's nothing we can do about it in the meantime. I would like to ask the Minister two questions about this. He was right to mention that Amsterdam and Utrecht have signed agreements with language agencies that they trust, which do do a good job, preventing fraud in the current system. My question is whether he wants to support that all the municipalities struggling with this can get help to do the same as Amsterdam and Utrecht. Then two. Bibob tests have prevented cowboys from taking advantage of public money in criminal sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u44	This is really...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u45	Is such a thing possible with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u46	The first one. It was way too long, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yes, and Mr Paternotte knows that very well. Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u48	The first question has already been put by Mr Paternotte in a general discussion. I recognize that. We have the so-called "ELIPs pathway": end of maturity, end of loan. It's about people who haven't settled in yet and who don't have any money. In this process, the good examples of Amsterdam and Utrecht, among others, are shared as an encouragement with other municipalities, as well as with the rolling out of the new integration system. Those examples of how you could handle it are therefore shared with other municipalities in the country. Then the second point, about the Bibob. I have to improvise. This can indeed be easier in the new system, because the municipalities are going to buy and they have experience in applying the Bibob Law when concluding contracts. There is a direct relationship between the buyer and the provider and then the Bibob Act can be introduced. Mr Jasper van Dijk just asked: do you expect this fraud to happen? Honestly, I don't expect that. Because the municipality is going to buy directly, there is no longer any money going away to fraud types. Do I have to hurry now, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u50	I do not think that municipalities are going to make much use of it, because they now have a direct purchasing relationship. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, then I have Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS and then Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u52	I have a brief question, because we still have this law, unfortunately. Especially in the corona time all inspections are difficult. How does the Minister ensure that they can now take place where physical meetings are limited?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's just very difficult, too. We just need to be clear about that. I have sent the Chamber two letters on the suspension of physical education, but also on the possibility of distance education. As a result, it has become more difficult to monitor properly. That is also the reality. This applies not only to integration education, but to more public tasks at the moment. That is why we must return to normal as soon as possible, so that we can carry it out better. Administrative checks are still taking place, but physically there can no longer be checked at the location. That's just a problem. Unfortunately, it is a more common problem at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u54	Then Mr De Graaf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u55	So much for the ritual dance around the subject. Now we're going to the real problem, and that's mass immigration. Does the Minister recognize that? That's question one. And... No, let me ask that as a first question. I have half a minute... because we are talking about large groups of people, especially non-Western immigrants, who are the problem in this, who have their own economy, a parallel society, who are primarily focused on each other according to the reports. Then all integration and integration courses have not worked and have only resulted in a cost. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a mass immigration problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u56	No, I disagree with Mr De Graaf. This is also a kind of ritual dance between Mr De Graaf and me. We have this little debate about every time. For example, if you look at last year's figures, the migration balance, you can see that 90% to 95% of the migration balance is made up of migrant workers and knowledge workers who have received an employment permit, and only a small part of asylum migration. About 15,000 people were, I think, last year. The integration process and the integration law are intended precisely to teach these people the language to get to work. I think that is very good, but also that it should be much better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u57	Second question, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u58	The problem, of course, is not in the last 18 months or so, but in this case in the years before, in the 40 years before. The only language that these people have learned above all, except the workers and the good ones, let me say this very clearly. That's the language that's been learned. For the rest, all these integration and integration courses and funds have only resulted in a cost. Is the Minister prepared to ultimately deny access to the country to all the students who are now being caught for fraud, and to take the people who organised the fraud, the people from the language offices involved, and to denaturalise them and to leave the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm sorry. I think the latter is a very special proposal. They are Dutch who are enterprising and start a language agency. I honestly do not understand this question, but we often talk side by side, Mr De Graaf and I. Then there is the first point. The fact that the current system simply doesn't work well, that too many people are in a dependent situation for too long, that they are stuck in welfare benefits, because they do not speak the language well, because they have a bad link to the labour market, is precisely my motivation to adapt, improve and focus more on fast learning of the language and focusing on work, so that people have a greater, better chance of participating in Dutch society. But in terms of world view, Mr De Graaf and I do not agree with each other at all. That's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you.
