ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u1	The next item is the VSO Implications PAS statement for the seven MIRT projects. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u2	Mr. Chairman. The Remkes Committee on Nitrogen yesterday was crystal clear: the government policy envisaged is insufficient to solve the problem of nitrogen in our nature. We need to be more ambitious. Otherwise biodiversity will disappear and the policy will fall back to the courts. It's legally untenable. Meanwhile, this minister wants to go through seven highways. Whether they will actually be necessary if we are all going to work more at home, the Minister ignores that. The Minister is counting on the nitrogen gain for her motorways by reducing the speed limit. But this can only be done if the increase in the maximum speed in 2011 was lawful. In view of the ruling of the Council of State, I have my doubts about that. I would like to ask the Minister: was the increase in speed assessed as a project at the time? Can the Minister give the Chamber the appropriate assessment and the Nature Protection Act permission? I'd like to get that for the MIRT paper meeting today. In order not to face legal surprises again, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in its final opinion, the Remkes Committee expresses concerns about the legal sustainability of the current nitrogen policy;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to avoid legal problems affecting the Empire in the planning and execution of the seven MIRT projects;]] [[calls on the Minister to seek independent legal advice on the planned nitrogen process for the seven MIRT projects and to share and discuss them with the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-A-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u3	Finally, I would like to refer back to the discussion we have just had on the question of flying or driving because we are going to work more at home through corona. What implications does that have for the projects we have on the role? I hope that the Minister will be able to share this reflection with the Chamber before the MIRT debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u4	Mr. Van Aalst, it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u5	Yes, Mr. Chairman, it's been a long time. This SO was a long time ago. Hence my question. I don't want to be the breaker today, but the SO wasn't about this situation at all. That we now anticipate Mr Remkes' final report... I am as sorry as Mrs Kröger, but I do not think this is a good time to move on this now. This SO was about very different things, about the MIRT projects. That was a completely different situation. There was no corona crisis. So, Mr President, I have a point of order. This isn't about the SO we talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u6	I do not agree with Mr Van Aalst at all. The SO was about how we deal with the seven MIRT projects in relation to the nitrogen space and the fact that the Minister wants to use the nitrogen space of lowering the maximum speed. The question is: can that and how does that work? All kinds of critical questions have been asked from the Chamber. Apart from Remkes' opinion, which appeared yesterday, there is a major legal issue about the current nitrogen policy. Before we move on to seven expensive highways, it seems to me that we must first be sure that it is legally correct. I think the Minister has something to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u7	Thank you. You can put the motion there. You can go there, too. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u8	Mr. Chairman. Despite the nitrogen crisis, the Minister intends to pursue seven MIRT projects, including the widening of the A27 at Amelisweerd. More asphalt and wider highways, while we know that's not the solution. We have asked the Minister to investigate alternatives, including better, but this Minister does not want to do so. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen space must be used primarily for the strengthening of nature and housing. At the moment, comrade Futselaar and GroenLinks are defending his National Tree Plan in the Thorbeckesaal. With the corona crisis, the vision of work and mobility also changes. More people give to want to work at home and less to want to catch the car. That is why, as far as we are concerned, it is not the time to decide on widening the road without identifying the future need for mobility and housing. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Minister intends to continue the identified seven MIRT projects despite the nitrogen crisis;]] [[Whereas the corona crisis has led to a different approach to mobility and work at home;]] [[Whereas the impact of the corona crisis on mobility needs is unclear in the future;]] [[Whereas other options, such as better d, may also be an alternative to better traffic flow;]] [[calls on the Government not to take any inevitable steps for the seven MIRT projects until the need for mobility after the corona crisis has been examined and other options have been examined alongside additional asphalt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin and Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-A-90]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet was given yet another insufficient supply of nitrogen. It is painful to see that we continue on a road that is untenable as far as we are concerned. For the Party for Animals it is therefore clear: nitrogen emissions need to be reduced much more and VVD plans such as more asphalt are simply not on the agenda. That's why the next simple motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is no robust and binding long-term plan to bring the Natura 2000 sites in which the critical deposition value is exceeded into good conservation status;]] [[noting that this does not allow for the distribution of nitrogen space;]] [[calls on the Government to abandon the seven asphalt projects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-A-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This VSO has been on the roll for some time. My note is from the end of February, if I'm not mistaken. So I had to dig up the way things were. We lowered the speed at the time, I believe in mid-March. This gave enough room for these seven MIRT projects, but also for housing. I think this is a good thing. In total there are 154 projects in the major MIRT book, which we will discuss at the end of this month. I believe that as many of these projects as possible should be carried out smoothly. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. This is important for our economy, for the flow and especially for the construction sector. Seven projects in the MIRT-book on infrastructure, spatial planning and transport are truly vital for the flow and mobility of traffic in the Netherlands. I will mention them; I think this is nice for the motorist, who will be in traffic again from October if he is not allowed to work at home. The first is the A27/A12 Ring Utrecht, a large project that is important for the turntable in the Netherlands. Second, the A1/A28, better known as node Hoevelaken. Thirdly, of course, the A6 Almere-Lelystad, which will be of interest to the airport Lelystad. Fourthly, the A4 at Haaglanden. Fifth the A58 between Tilburg and Eindhoven and further between Sint-Annabosch and junction Galder. Sixth the A27: the route Hooipolder-Houten. We believe that it is important that all these projects continue with momentum. This is important for the future of the Netherlands. This has not just been realized; it also takes time. So please give a response from the Minister how we can ensure that at least these seven projects with all hands on deck and in accordance with the motion-The Pater-Postma/Dijkstra.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is important, because we see that motor mobility is only going to increase, especially with corona. The trains aren't even half full, not even a quarter full. A lot of people choose a used car or a third-hand car to go to work. We want to make that possible without people getting stuck in traffic. That is unnecessary; we all see that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u13	Thank you, Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u14	I'd like that phone. Is it Mr. Graus's? No one dares touch the phone, but the messenger has gloves. Take him away. Don't tell anyone you have it! Then I will go to Mr Schonis on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u15	Mr President, thank you, a subject that has rarely been overtaken by current events as much as the subject we are discussing today: the seven MIRT projects. We're a coronalock down and some advice from Mr. Remkes, so I'm gonna take this moment to ask you a few questions for the MIRT debate at the end of this month. I notice that more colleagues had the same idea. The first question is, of course, the following. We've now had Remkes' advice. Several colleagues referred to it and said a number of things about nitrogen. Remkes' conclusion is that we need a robust nature recovery plan and that we need to strengthen our nature to prevent a nitrogen lockdown. So I am also curious about the Minister's reflection on this. Does this give reason for reconsidering the letter she sent to the Chamber last October/November, said in my mind? My second question follows on from that. It follows a little from the answer to questions put by Mr Kröger and myself about a concrete project, the A27, which is also in the letter. Mr Dijkstra just mentioned that. That answer shows that when the reserved nitrogen space is used and it still turns out to be too small or insufficient for your own project, you need to find another solution within your project. You can think of anything, but at least that has consequences for the planning and budget of that project. I am therefore curious to see whether the Minister, Mr Delors, would prefer to indicate, for the MIRT debate in two weeks' time, the consequences of each project where it is discussed, in terms of planning and budget and what choices the Chamber can still make. Apart from what choice we would like to make, at least we need to know whether we can still make that choice. And if so, what choices are there at the time? I think the timer in this way is neatly follow-up, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. Schonis. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In these times of corona crisis, it is up to the government to set an example. So it seems to us very sensible to invest in mobility now, especially now that we see that car traffic is already at the level before the corona crisis. The PVV therefore proposes that instead of the brake on it, we should start to gas. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the roads have already been used for full capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to implement the seven MIRT projects as soon as possible and to avoid further delays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Aalst. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-A-92]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. I'm looking at the minister. She needs five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u20	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Members for the questions they have put and for the motions that have been tabled. I'd better start with the questions. First of all, Mrs Kröger asked whether the speed increase was assessed as a project at the time. Has an appropriate assessment been made? There's been a natural test at the elevation. This showed that there would be no significant negative effects. The competent authority, LNV, therefore assessed and allowed that increase. They also said that there was no need for a permit to do so. The second question is also from Mrs Kröger. She actually says quite broad: what are the lessons of the corona crisis? I believe that Mr Schonis was somewhat inclined to do so. The question was: can you give some insight into how you want to deal with it? I think there's a lot to say about that. We have asked for advice from the planning agencies and the SER-Hamer committee, let me just say that we are talking to employers. We are committed to continuing to make structural use of homework as much as possible and, where this is not possible, to ensuring that it is spread. There's a lot to say about that. Let us try to say at least in the run-up to the MIRT note-by-note meeting what we need to say about this. Let's see how far we can get. We're talking to the employers. I'm very optimistic about that. They also really see the momentum for working at home. I don't know if we're gonna make it all the way in those two weeks, but at least I think I'm gonna be able to give you what direction we're thinking. We hope to make concrete arrangements with them even before the summer, before your summer recess. So I'd be happy to outline the contours before the note meeting MIRT.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u22	A brief comment, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u23	Yes. I have a question about this increase in speed and about the decision of the Council of State. It concerns the way in which those nitrogen assessments have been carried out earlier and the fact that, for example, there has been a test, with a marginal test, whether there would be no significant impact. The question is, of course, whether this is still in line with what the Council of State later said, namely: 'Hey, no, it should not be that way at all.' So that was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u24	Well, at the time, that nature test went through. The competent authority said there was no need for a permit. It was also found that no significant negative effects would occur. So that was simply not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u25	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u26	Can the Minister share this with the Chamber, so exactly the things she sketches here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u27	I think I'm sharing it with you now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u28	No, the underlying pieces. The Minister refers to a number of documents here. I have doubts as to whether it is entirely as the Minister puts it here. Can she share these pieces before the MIRT notary meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u29	Well, I don't know how many pieces that is. But I think you'd like to see something that described the decision of the competent authority at the time. Then let me not say "all the pieces in which this is contained," because then we have a sort of WOB request here. I don't think that's what you're saying either, but you're saying that I'm confirming this somewhere, with a piece in which the competent authority has established it. That's what you're looking for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u30	Yes. And the nature test to which reference is made. The Minister refers to a nature test and to a permit by the competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u31	No. There was no need for a permit, the competent authority said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u32	I am asking for a letter from the competent authority stating that no permit was required.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u33	Let me make sure that at least we can make a reference to the documents in which you can find them. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u34	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u35	Then there was a question from Mr Dijkstra: can the Minister indicate how these MIRT projects will continue? We now have a nitrogen registration system. Of course, that gives room. At the same time, of course, we are going to look at how we can allow these projects to continue through mitigation and compensation. Perhaps just to refresh this debate: why were the seven? Because at those seven we had already started the speed reduction to 100 km/h. So it would be a little weird if you couldn't use something you were already working on, then suddenly you couldn't use it anymore. So that's just an explanation. Mr Schonis asked if I could indicate for the NO MIRT what the planning and costs of the MIRT projects are if there is insufficient nitrogen space. Of course, I cannot write that down for all 134 projects and details, but I understand what you mean. We will make that clear to you in general. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 89 from Mrs Kröger asks me to seek independent legal advice on the planned process on nitrogen for the seven MIRT projects. I advise against this motion, because a very careful process has already been followed. The motion in part No. Mr Laçin asked that no inevitable steps be taken on the seven MIRT projects until the need for mobility had been examined after the corona crisis. I would also advise against this motion, because it is still very important to address the long-term accessibility issue. Previously planned investments were not enough to solve the bottlenecks. As Mr Van Aalst has just said, we are already at 90% of road transport from before corona time. We also see a tendency that people are now even at risk of getting into the car because of reduced availability of public transport. By the way, I am busy with the Secretary of State in order to ensure that we do not end up in very large traffic jams by working at home, spreading and so on, and also to prevent people from going back to public transport in a structural way. I have already promised to tell you more about this in a letter to the MIRT. Then the motion to part No. 91 by Mrs Van Esch. It will not surprise her that I am against this motion, because we want to go on with these seven MIRT projects. It follows immediately from that that I have the motion in part No. Mr Van Aalst (S). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Aalst on his excellent report. That is all I have to say, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u36	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-09-tweedekamer-27.u37	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
