ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the Awir Hardness Adjustment Act, Room Document 35468. I would like to welcome everyone, in particular the Secretary of State for Finance. The Secretary of State actually wants to make a proposal to Members of Parliament at the beginning, a small point of order. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you. We are having an important debate tonight on the inheritance of five years of childcare allowance and the law that should enable the parents affected to recover. Because of corona, of course, the public gallery is empty, but I'm sure a lot of parents are watching from home. Given the importance of the law, I expect you to have a lot of questions. You have also asked many written questions, but there are still many questions to ask. I would also like to answer them very thoroughly and properly. I therefore propose that we do not do the second term of this legal process today, but next week, above all to ensure that we are able to debate each other well and that I can give the answers well and that, in the context of carefully upstairs, we take the time to deal with the law quickly. By the way, it is good to know that this does not mean that we would not be able to pay the first parents in July, if we could at least pass the law next week and the First Chamber will do the same in the following week. I would therefore like to ask your permission to do so. I have one other comment to make. You requested a number of documents prior to the debate. I am taking stock of them, but I will ensure that they are made available well before the next deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u3	Fine, thank you. I'll see if anyone has any objections. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u4	Mr President, that seems to me to be a good proposal, given the importance of the law and its complexity. I would like to make one amendment, namely that today we will not complete the first term of the Secretary of State, but that we will finish it next week, so that, for example, the Secretary of State can give an appreciation of amendments that are not quite ready. That can then be done in the first term, plus perhaps still outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u5	Can the Secretary of State say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u6	I would certainly like to answer the questions I can already answer today so that that is done. But then we can indeed do the rest of the first term next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u7	Fine. I'm not gonna have a round, unless you have another proposal. Otherwise we will have some sort of arrangement of work that we really do not need at the moment, unless you are not in favour of. But then I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u8	I would add, however, that the Secretary of State is doing the same thing: it is good if we take a little more time to deal with a complex law, but that does not mean that parents have to wait any longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u9	That's what the Secretary of State just said. Any other comments? Then we're just gonna get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u10	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's painful. We see everywhere in the world that people stand up against inequality, against racism and against discrimination, because they feel the pain of exclusion, fear and also dishonesty. I'm holding my heart now that we're on our way to one of the biggest recessions we've ever seen. What does that mean for those groups? I find it even more painful that the government, on which citizens should be able to trust, discriminates professionally and works with blacklists. This is now widely recognised in The Hague, but of course this has been known for a long time. The previous Secretary of State and the Committees of Inquiry have looked away too long. We see a tax administration in which for years there has been professional discrimination, in which the second nationality of people has been used as a reason for extra strict control. If you can't trust your own government to be honest, then who can? It's painful, indigestible and unimaginable, and yet it is. Much remains to be done before confidence in the government is restored. That certainly applies to the affected parents, of course. Today we are discussing the Awir Hardness Adaptation Act, a first step to do justice to the affected parents. For the DENK Group, there is a need to make haste. The central question for a lot of parents is: why does it have to be so complicated? What's taking so long? A quick treatment is in the interests of the injured parents, who have been confronted with this supplement nightmare for too long. This law should therefore enter into force on 1 July 2020. It's been too long anyway. Already in August 2017, the National Ombudsman came to the conclusion that his actions have made people's lives impossible and abused his power. This law is the result of the terrible child care allowance affair. Surcharges were unlawfully recovered, whether or not parents could afford to pay for this. Increases were unduly recovered, even if this was not justified or there was a minimum administrative error. Increases were unlawfully recovered due to professional discrimination, including by using a second nationality as a selection criterion. Mr. Chairman. I wonder how the duo pitch and feathers, with their so-called packing day, will look back on their own business. I am also curious how Secretary of State Wiebes and Minister Asscher would look back. They knew exactly what was going on with this drama, but refused to stop the steamroller that was crushing people. The law we are discussing today is a direct result of Donner's second opinion. One part of that opinion was not to give retroactive effect to the 2012 and 2014 cases after more than five years. Old revisions remain legal, but they are still being corrected by means of a hardness regime for the cases more than five years ago. Mr. Chairman. If I'm correct, the CAF 11 case surrounding the host parents' office of Dadim has now been partially completed. Can the Secretary of State confirm from her perspective that all parents concerned have received basic compensation? Mr. Chairman. I'm even more curious about how the parents experienced this. Is it true that there are still 40 objections, perhaps pro forma? How's that going? And how is it that these parents still have to cover up in this way, have to fight to repair that injustice? What's going on with the host parents' office itself? Is that entrepreneur also being compensated? Mr. Chairman. Now it's the rest of the parents' turn. That's what this bill is all about. Last week, following this proposal, we had a technical briefing of officials coming to explain the law. Later today we had a public conversation with a number of parents, the lawyer of a large number of parents, Mrs González Pérez, and National Ombudsman Reinier van Zutphen. I got the impression that we're all living in two different worlds. On the one hand, there was the human world of the murmified parents who are no longer getting air, of financial worries, of despair, of years of unequal legal struggle, of no light at the end of the tunnel, of pain and suffering. How long is this world gonna last? On the other hand, we have the world of administrative rules, of laws, of legal wordings, of step by step closer to the citizen's perception, but still fail to do so, of an incredibly complicated recovery organization, which seems to be only understood by the officials. That happens with the best of intentions, but what a maze we've rigged. Does that have anything to do with the human size we're looking for? The Secretary of State has set up a lot of institutions: the Advisory Committee Implementation Fees and the Implementing Organisation Recovery Fees. The Implementing Organisation Recovery Fees is also composed of three more bars: professional engineering, central direction and management advice and support. The professional engineering team therefore works together in the feasibility with the national technical coordinator. We have a central direction, which directs the production capacity, the work stock and the quality, including the working instructions. I see the Secretary of State watching and thinking, "Did I really rig it that way?" Yes, you did. Then there is a team of management advice and support, which prepares the debates in the Chamber. We have a strategic crisis team. I had the impression that the Secretary of State himself was going to send and would not do so through the strategic crisis team. I wonder how that can be done with such an intermediate administrative layer. How do the Secretary of State, the Strategic Crisis Team and the Implementing Organisation Recovery and Fees relate to each other? Who's in charge here? Colleagues, the bureaucracy does not stop there. There will also be an Administrative Advisory Board Children's care allowance and there will be all kinds of experts and different disciplines to advise. We still have the service team duped and a parent panel and a child panel. And then there is a committee of wise men, which has to assess whether there is bias. In addition, there is a committee on additional damage, which decides on additional damage on top of the compensation scheme. I also mention the advisory committee on objections, which advises on the likely objections. Mr President, I really needed to breathe when I was like this. It's very complex. The DENK Group sees the necessary risks in this regard. How's the Secretary of State gonna send this? How can the Room send? Is there some kind of dashboard coming? It's pretty popular these days. Maybe it's possible to cheat on Minister De Jonge. Mr President, then the legislative proposal itself. An important criticism of the DENK Group is that the butcher initially approves his own meat. The Tax Administration itself assesses whether there is bias and can therefore be claimed compensation. It is not reasonable to expect individual parents to provide counter evidence in an assessment by the Tax Administration. The parents do not have their complete file, except for an exception, and then have difficulty defending them. It is also unclear why and on the basis of which grounds the Tax Administration takes this view: no bias and no right to compensation. The 8,000 rejection letters from two weeks ago are not well motivated. The parents feel put in the cold and feel that their interests have been harmed. The delivery of old payment certificates, contracts and hourly statements is perhaps the Achilles heel of this recovery operation, and the chain always breaks at the weakest link. The parents have to deliver receipts. We've seen in this house how long it took Fred Teeven to find his receipt. It cost him the head, but you can't expect parents to keep all the receipts, can you? Mr. Chairman. There has been a written round of questions. Despite the answers, much remains unclear. That is why there are a number of questions to be considered in fact. Is it true that all decisions, including those under the hardness clause, the safety net and the design/greater debt, can be seen as decisions under the General Administrative Law Act? Then there is the possibility of objection to the Tax Administration, appeal to the court and appeal to the Council of State. Does this also apply to the opinions of the Committee of Wise Men and the Committee on Additional Damage? Are any objections to the Tax Administration, appeals to the court and appeals to the Council of State open? Mr. Chairman. What about trial costs? Are they eligible for reimbursement, as previously proposed by the Donner Committee, and are they in all circumstances? If not, under which not? Yesterday morning, we were allowed to receive the collection scheme, a ministerial arrangement setting out how the hardness regime should be further implemented. After reading this, it is unclear to me how the compensation amounts are going to be calculated exactly, whereas this is, of course, essential. How and where will it become clear how this compensation will be calculated? We know parents are gonna talk to each other. Some are represented in groups by lawyers. That leads to unrest. I have a number of specific questions on the ninth paragraph of Rule 49. It states that the Tax Administration may extend no less than six months in order to arrive at a decision. That's too long. According to that same ninth paragraph of Article 49, this period could be extended for a further six months. I am considering an amendment on this point to reduce these deadlines considerably. I know that Mr Bart Snels has tabled such an amendment, because that has become known in the course of the day. That is why I will support Mr Bart. But thank you, Mr Omtzigt. I hear him screaming, but I think I said, "Mr Bart Snels." Mr. Chairman. The shorter the agony, the better. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. What about the AMvB for a safety net scheme? Have I missed something or isn't he here yet? But this is the ultimate end of this whole recovery operation. Without this information, a balanced assessment of the legislative proposal is not possible. The Chamber must have a clear view of what this safety net is going to look like. Can the Secretary of State paint a clear picture of that? And who are going to be called "very poignant cases"? Isn't "striking cases" enough? On this point, too, I am considering an amendment. How exactly are the safety net fees going to be calculated? Is there also an appeal, appeal and appeal possible here? What about the deadline for this whole recovery operation to be completed? A period of two years seems to be too long. This agony must be stopped today rather than tomorrow. Can the Secretary of State undertake that anyone who submits a claim before 1 July 2020 can expect a decision from the Tax Administration before 1 January 2021? Can the Secretary of State undertake that if the Tax Administration cannot deliver a decision within six months, it will automatically be positive? In short, can there be a system whereby, just as we know it in the case of licences, if the government is unable to react within a given period of time? On the other hand, this recovery operation closes on 1 January 2024. Can it be assumed that cases which originate before 1 January 2024 will also be covered after 1 January 2024? The execution test shall state that 100 FTE personnel are required for the recovery operation. In the explanatory memorandum it seems as if there is talk of 500 fte. What is it now? Then let's talk about the amounts. The explanatory memorandum refers to 500 million. That is also what the Secretary of State stated in the press release following the Donner Commission's press conference. A further 140 million was added later. Is this on top of the 500 million or is this another cigar out of its own box, out of the 500 million? Why choose a threshold of €1,500? The only argument I have read is that in the period up to 2017 it was the same for the surcharges. An amount of €1,500 is really too high a threshold amount. If someone is at a disadvantage for €1,400, then he or she will not get anything in return. Income tax is subject to a threshold of €16. Can't we even this out? Mr. Chairman. What is the current position on CAF 3, CAF Tonga? It sounds exotic. The people in this group were treated in the same or similar way as CAF 11, CAF Hawaii. Exotic too! But two weeks ago, the people of CAF 3 suddenly received a letter stating that this was not the case. They are allowed to enter a new civil service mill. Three weeks ago, the Secretary of State said, unfortunately, that he had to report professional discrimination and gaggering. What's going on here, anyway? Has the D.A. taken this report into consideration by now? Has the Secretary of State informed the D.A. when it takes a decision to proceed with further investigation or prosecution? Mr. Chairman. I have noticed that there is a very low penalty for professional discrimination. Article 429c of the Code of Criminal Law prohibits discrimination on grounds of race, religion or belief in the performance of a post, profession or business, and the penalty is actually very limited. It shall not exceed three months or a fine of the third category. Compare this with Article 137d of the Code of Criminal Law, which has a penalty of up to one year for inciting hatred and discrimination. I cannot think of a good reason why these measures of punishment are so far apart, especially in view of the great social fuss that has arisen about institutional bias in the Netherlands. I have therefore taken the initiative to put forward a legislative proposal to increase the threat of punishment for professional discrimination to a maximum of one year or a fine of the fourth category. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I would also like to receive a commitment that the Secretary of State will consult with Minister Grapperhaus whether he can support or accept this. Finally, Mr President. I am sorry about the Personal Data Authority, as has often been said here by colleagues. When is this research on ethnic profiling coming? What is the situation with regard to the investigation of the so-called blacklist, the Fraud Signaling Provision? What is the state of affairs with regard to the investigation of the wrong way of dealing with objections, on the basis of the whistleblower Pierre Niessen? And finally, what is the state of affairs regarding the investigation into the incorrect non-refunding of unjustified penalty payments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u12	Thank you. Mrs. Leijten. I will allow four questions in the first term of the Chamber, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr President, this is just a law, so I do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u14	No...!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u15	In practice, there are often five, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u16	We're not gonna negotiate the number of interruptions. This is simply stated in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u17	This is real legislation, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u18	I know. You also have 30 minutes' speaking time. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay for an hour. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u19	Exactly. And I have a question for Mr Azarkan that I have had for a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u20	Fine, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u21	Especially in this debate. Ethnic profiling, judging someone in his background without looking at the facts and circumstances of that person as a person himself, is not allowed. We can't have discrimination. The DENK Group always makes a fervent plea for that, and the SP fully agrees with that. But in that context, I would like DENK to apologize for the ethnic profiling of colleagues in this Chamber. In fact, you have judged colleagues here several times on their origins, put them in videos, and with that you want to banish them. You're gonna stand back from that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u22	A special request. I have spoken a number of times with my fellow Members who have spoken to me about this. They have indicated that they have felt pain. That was never the intention of the colleague who gave that interview. In that sense, I distance myself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u23	If you're against ethnic profiling, appealing to someone in his background and not on who he is and what he's doing, you should also distance yourself from your own ethnic profile. The DENK Group has done so several times. She has made movies several times of colleagues in this Chamber who are Dutch but who also have a different background, the Moroccan or the Turkish. The DENK Group has done so several times. That's ethnic profiling, too. We shouldn't be measuring that with double standards. We shouldn't have that in the Tax Office, not the police, not the government, but not in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u24	The debate is going a bit differently. I'll let you do that. I think we are talking about an emergency law here today, but I can always be addressed, I think, on the behaviour of myself, of course, and also on that of my colleagues and my group. I seem to recall that this happened in 2016, at least before the DENK Group was here. Making movies has become commonplace. I see that all colleagues are making videos, and I have seen that Mr Baudet of Forum, for example, has made the name and name of all the people of D66 public because he did not agree that the referendum was abolished and that everyone should be called and emailed. I have just indicated that it was never intended that colleagues should be addressed directly. I have said that I will refrain from doing so. I'm gonna stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u25	Still, these movies are not from 2016 but from 2019. DENK was in the Chamber. It was videos about the Chamber, and what you blame the IRS is what DENK did. DENK made films of Mrs Dilan Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and of Mr Amhaouch, exactly the people here with a double, with a different cultural background, with a Moroccan or Turkish background. You say you only regret it where people were hurt. But if you're against ethnic profiling, you say you're not gonna do this in the future. That's two different things. Soon, if that report on ethnic profiling is there, we won't see if anyone's hurting. We'll see if we find it normal to profile. So my question is: does the DENK group distance itself from ethnic profiling, as it did with a chamber motion, a chamber motion, even when it concerns its own DENK group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u26	We always support our own motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u27	Does this distance the DENK group from their own films with which they profiled MPs ethnically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u28	I sincerely cannot remember that in 2019 we made some video of Mr Amhaouch. I do not know what Mr Omtzig is talking about. Can you make that clear, Mr. Ommzigt? I'm asking through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u29	If you like, I'll send you those movies from 2018 or 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u30	Now it's gonna be a little shaky again, because Mr. Omtzigt...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u31	No, there's not gonna be anything shaky, Mr. Azarkan!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u32	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u33	The President knows very well what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u34	Mr Azarkan does not know that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mr Omtzigt has the floor. You will have the floor in a moment, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u36	The chairman knows very well what movies we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u37	Well, maybe she can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u38	Those videos were made here after the elections by the DENK Group, not before the elections, as you just said, in 2016. That was a lie, Mr. Azarkan. That was a lie of yours. They were made here by the parliamentary group and all, but also all, members of parliament with a different nationality have been approached differently from the members of parliament who look Dutch like me. The question is whether you want to distance yourself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u39	Whoever's asking has to prove it. I would like to know from Mr Omtzigt what we made a video of Mr Amhaouch in 2019 and what that is about. He says the chairman knows that. Maybe the chairman can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr President, from 2018 or 2019...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u41	I do not participate in the debate, but I do know that Mr Zihni Özdil has been filmed. Here's to it. And also from Mrs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u42	Then you have a confirmation from the President, so I assume you are simply apologizing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u43	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I think it is a good thing that colleagues who come up with statements are ethnically profiled when they say to me that their colleague, Mr Amhaouch in this case, is also supported by evidence. I don't remember Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u44	Mr President, there are all Members of Parliament here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think I have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u46	Yes. You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u47	Mr President, I do not remember a small film being made. Mr Omtzigt mentioned two names, including Mrs Yeşilgöz................................................................................................................................................................................. I've indicated, through my colleague...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u48	You're saying there's no video of Mrs. Dilan Yeşilgöz-Zegerius made? Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u49	Chairman! Mr President,......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr. Ommzigt. Mr Azarkan may finish his sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u51	What I know is that that video by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius was about how they addressed people who came here as asylum seekers, as scum and in that way. So did Mrs. Bente Becker. We made movies about that, yeah. We find it appalling that people of different origin should be disposed of in this way. Ms Yeşilgöz-Zegerius then spokesperson in the field of Justice and Security. That's no problem at all. What I come back to is that my colleague gave an interview that resulted in a number of colleagues here in the Chamber suffering a lot. That was a few years ago. I never liked that; I'll say that here. In any case, I have indicated that this should not be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u52	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u53	Mr. Ommzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u54	That's the fourth question again!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u55	Yeah, that's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna make that call right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u56	I thought I'd give you a hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u57	Yes. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u58	Mr Azarkan knows exactly what these films are about. These were videos in which the MPs... Mr Özdil was indeed in it. I'll look them up if I have to. The smokescreen that is now being erected would fight you if the government threw up such a smokescreen. Everyone knows what movies we're talking about. You have exactly... that was not a single video or a single MP with a different point of view. That's what you should do. We do that a lot here, and you do it well. But those were videos that only the other members of the Chamber went off. As a statistician, I can calculate that the chance that it was accidentally all those MPs will be less than one in a million. That's what we call ethnic profiling. The question is whether the DENK Group is abandoning it or whether the members of the DENK Group have selectively forgotten it. Because if they have now selectively forgotten, I also know what I will ask you in the next debate when you accuse the government of selectively forgetting something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u59	I didn't forget anything selective. I believe that, like many other parties, we are making videos to show what the positions are. The video on which I'm referring, which I think is about Mr Özdil and Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, is a video in which a colleague gave an interview that has been back for some time. I think that was during or just before the city council elections. I found that very unfortunate. I let him know. I hated that. I've said that before. But if it pleases the Chamber that I say that again, this is it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u60	I thought Mr Azarkan was generous in his apologies. He says "I apologize and it will never happen again," but then there are arguments why it could all be accepted. Does Mr Azarkan now say that MPs of another origin, who do not look Dutch sometimes and often come from Turkey or Morocco, are not there many denk voters and will never again be prevented by DENK in such a video about voting behaviour, often with inflammatory lyrics? Will his group never do that again? Will he never do that again? Does he regret that the DENK Group has done so in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u61	Mr Nijboer is asking the same question as colleagues have just asked. I have indicated that this is from some time ago. I indicated that I found that very unfortunate and that I spoke to the honourable Member about it, that that is not the intention. I don't remember ever doing that myself. So I take responsibility for that. I also indicated that I do not want that to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u62	Thank you. Then we'll wait for the cleaning. Mrs Leijten has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about legal protection and equality. It's about making up for what's gone wrong for years. It's about a public service that turned against its own citizens and destroyed lives that weren't gentle. It is about a tear from the Prime Minister and the many, many excuses that have already been made. This bill has to settle that. We're facing a big assignment. If trust has been compromised for years, when it comes to parents who were targeted by fraud hunters at Tax Administration/Applications, that takes quite a lot. In any case, this requires the realization that we were dealing with a department where everything was in order to detect and identify fraud. In such a place a tunnel vision is very soon created, it is very soon only seen as fraud. I talked to people who worked there and they left because they couldn't handle it, that the personal aspect of people and their situation was gone. Everyone's a fraud. Those glasses were on. We now know from WOB requests that that was really turned on. Targets had to be met, the business case had to be met. There is a recipe book in the WOB-pieces that Trouw and RTL News have received about how to punish, how to disciplinaryly act. That's a lot of points. So everything was on to pack. Is that the only thing to say about this, then, that that department was so and that it was so invested? No. It can also be found in those WOB documents that in 2012 it was actually said by then Secretary of State Weekers, in the case of De Appelblossom: maybe we should do something about all that or nothing. That was pretty harsh. People had not paid their own contribution, they were victims of a fraud agency and they were dealt with. In a note you see in the margin that the Secretary of State says: yes, we actually have to change the rules on that. But that never happened. We could have done that in 2012. We know we could have done it later, with De Pearl. We know that. Why didn't that ever happen? Because politics was hiding behind statements from the Council of State. The ruling of the Council of State was "this is allowed, perhaps it follows from the law," but in fact you know that it is disproportionate, that it is undesirable, that it is inhumane. That gives an order to politicians to amend laws. So it didn't happen in 2012, not in 2014 and not later. Now we are here and now we have to measure whether this bill is sufficient. The SP very much wants a quick solution. The SP really wants a proper arrangement. But if it's not right, we won't agree. 'Cause rushing is rarely good. Now I do not want to say that there has been a hurry here, because we have also been hiding behind a Donner Commission for a year. But if it's not good enough, then we're also at risk. That is also a bit mindful of what Mr Omtzigt said in the previous debate, namely that we need to take more time to make laws. We have to do that right. In this respect, I am pleased that the Secretary of State has announced that we do not have to go through it tonight in a nightly debate and vote tomorrow, when we cannot really really consider how proposals from the Chamber will work out, how they might interact with each other and how they might be desired but can be slightly different and better in the law. It's a good thing we're taking a little more time for that. Mr. Chairman. I told Menno Snel, the former Secretary of State, before: take your political responsibility; don't hide behind Donner. That's what I'm actually saying to this Secretary of State. I'll be right back on the safety net and the committee of wise men. Mr Azarkan has already explained very clearly what has not already been done, but our political responsibility has not been organized away and certainly not that of the Secretary of State. I'd just like to say that. Mr. Chairman. Everything in this debate is about bias. What's bias? I was just wondering if, if you're on one of those teams that's gonna hit fraud, there's no mood of bias. And then who's gonna test bias? I find that vulnerable in this law. The Tax Administration checks whether in that group-by-group approach CAF, CAF 11, CAF is the same, CAF behind it; well, all that jargon is either biased or acted in individual situations. So Tax Service/Applications, who's done that for years, is going to say of himself: hello, I'm giving myself a red card! I find that vulnerable. I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she sees it. Mr. Chairman. The SP came in August last year with the Blackbook unjustly discontinued childcare allowance. Very soon, after 300 notifications............................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, the common denominator is that all these people are thrown in front of their feet: you are a frauder through the construction; you are blamed for intent / gross guilt. For the SP Group, it is clear that the qualification "set-up/greater debt', the way that mechanism works, is an equal of CAF. We do not have that equal position of intent/great debt in this legislative proposal. The Donner Consultative Commission would look at intent/great debt but failed to do so. We have already exchanged this widely in the previous debate. The Secretary of State is moving a bit on that set-up/greater debt that comes in the safety net, which I'm about to go on but it's not enough. It must be clear that it is compensatable when you have been dealt with too thinly, without the burden of proof from the Tax Administration, under intent/great debt. Because the safety net isn't compensation. That's something else. That still needs to be designed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I am there because of the answer we received yesterday morning, which was worked hard by a lot of people, strengthened. Because the Secretary of State says there: we actually had to file files about why people were blamed, but there is insufficient evidence; sorry, I regret that. Yeah, lack of evidence is what it's about if you can't defend yourself. Then it also says: parents were not told that they were suspected of intent / gross guilt. They didn't really find out until they didn't get a payment arrangement, because "we don't help fraudsters." I can go along with that, but not if you're wrongly considered a fraud. And that's what happened here. Then the next question is who determined it and how it was secured. "Yes, no, there was no control over judgment intent/great guilt." No. So you had an individual assessment. They didn't get caught up in that. Those who were thrown at their feet with all the consequences of that, were not reported. So that one was unable to defend himself. You can talk about all the consequences for parents, but if this is not settled, it will be very difficult for the SP to agree to this arrangement, however much we want it to be. There is still much to be said about the Tax Administration's file and about what has happened. We are also going to have debates on this, but of course we would like to move forward in restoring and compensating these parents. But that cannot be done if intent/greater debt is not compensatory. Mr. Chairman. The consequences for parents have often been discussed, but they cannot remain unnamed in this debate. I was told by one of the mothers who has been in trouble for years, that she had a late payment in the housing corporation. She wanted to be a bit cool, but then she had to do a course: come out with income. That felt like a humiliation: "As if I don't know, as if I didn't always tie those ends together." She's taking that course, because that's why the housing association is hanging out with her, but that's not cool. One of the parents I've had a lot of contact with has been admitted to the compensation scheme. He has received a letter: you are of compensation; your situation is similar to that of the Eindhoven host parents' office. For her, that's no joy at all. Everything was unnecessary. Everything wasn't necessary. A whole line of things happened to her. From the moment she got that letter, she couldn't actually get up. The result is so huge. We would perhaps say: 'Happy, there is a compensation coming; I managed to do that.' But for her, this is actually very intense again. I also spoke to a duped's mother the other day. She said with a sobbing in her voice, and I notice that I'm getting it now, too. "I wish my husband had lived now, because then he would have known that our doubt about our son was unjustified. We always saw our son and our stepdaughter working, but there was never any money. We doubted them. What was going on?" She was so eager to see her husband still alive to see that it wasn't her son's fault. It's getting me cold again, and so was I. I got a text from a 15-year-old last night. I have his permission to read this: "Because my parents lost their business and were in debt, my father was working every day. My mom used to be, too. She went to college, but she couldn't do that anymore. She had to work, because the rent and the debts had to be paid." Every time there was no money. The money that was in the savings account that was meant for the study of him and his brother, of course, went to that debt. There was no money for nice things. He says that it wasn't only bad, but that he was afraid to talk about it in the family, because his parents had so much to worry about. He ends up saying, "When I finally finish high school, I want to study to be a teacher at an elementary school. But yes, this gives me college debts and it may not be worth it to me." It's really not just anything. And why am I saying this? I have said this in so many debates: haste is not good. I actually think that this arrangement should go back to the drawing board. Then why and how would you want it? I need the IRS out. The IRS has to get out. Everything has to go the other way. I'm about to sum up what it's like now, but this is how I ideally see it: Dear parents, come and talk to us; tell us your story. Not: the tax authorities found this and yak, yak, yak we're going to do it. I've been on some IRS calls with parents who got their files. Pride people panic in that confrontation, shut up and are not really an equal partner anymore. The department has lawyers, can prepare itself and can analyze it, but these parents don't know what's coming to them at such a time. If you are so late in the assessment, it is not in accordance with the sixteen rules of the National Ombudsman. He says, "Go round the table and come out together." I would like these parents to be able to tell their story before the Tax Administration says: we have this for you in our file. Is that possible? And for that it is also necessary that these people get their files. They're getting the question: what do you want and what don't you want? Actually, I find it a little believing. Like these people don't know what they want to know. Mr. Chairman. I promised I'd list what's going on. I have here the Official Journal of 26 May which deals with the Decision Compensation Scheme CAF 11 and similar (CAF) cases. I took a look at that compensation scheme. On page 2 there is "The Tax Administration assesses" this or this once. On page 3 there is "The Tax Administration/Awards Review" three times. Page 4: "The Tax Administration assesses" occurs four times and so on. The Tax Administration/Applications evaluates and a parent may object. This is exactly the mechanism we all do not want. I'm sure we don't want that. But it is written down and this is the arrangement now. I want to avoid the position "you can appeal" and "you can object." "Spaceful" is something other than "The Tax Administration makes a decision and a parent has an insight into it or can weigh it." No, that's gotta be over. It was said to those parents "you're not a fraud," "we made a mistake," "we're sorry" and "we have a compensation scheme." And yet that's how it's written in that newspaper. There's just something going wrong. A note following the report is the written preparation for a legislative proposal and a discussion here in the Chamber. We asked a lot of questions, worked hard on the answers and then there are very nice words in that note. But what's in the State's news is really different in tone and different in order. For example, I have also asked a question about responsibility for lost documents, joint responsibility. Yeah, don't do it to the parents. Yes, then we will judge generously. Yeah, I'm sorry, but we haven't seen that in years. Who's gonna give us a guarantee that it's gonna happen? We are now getting a committee to compensate for the damage actually suffered, and Mr Azarkan has already listed it, but it is only accessible to people who have received compensation. That is precisely why the Donner Consultative Commission has ensured that there are as few people as possible. Suppose people get their money back because of the harshness of the arrangements, which I think is really an invented construction, but they don't get compensation. These people can also have enormous follow-up damage, but cannot now go to that committee, because it is only for compensation. That's a real problem! And then it says, "Everyone has to report for themselves." Hello, may I beg for an arrangement? Also a problem! The National Ombudsman told us last week: invite it. Invite. Don't let people come back to the IRS again. This just doesn't say what the arrangement is like. Mr. Chairman. We will then get a flowchart called ""which is a new jargon word for what it looks like and what steps there are to take; we have received a new version of "" and it contains a very large beam of all possible arrival options and it says "decision board." So that's the IRS! The IRS is making a decision. Why doesn't it just say "decision Tax Administration"? There's another "administrative body" being set up. Sorry, I'm a little suspicious about this file. I just don't like the look of it. And then the safety net.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u64	I have a question about the compensation committee because in the documents we received, including the technical briefing, that committee also advises on additional damage through the safety net scheme when it comes to parents who are in the hardness of the scheme, regardless of what I have heard from Mrs Leijten. I believe that additional damage is foreseen there. I thought I just heard her say that they do not qualify for any additional damage at all. That's not how I read it in the papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u65	Yeah, I just got to that safety net. There is a lot of regulation in that now, only we haven't got it yet. I would like us to agree with each other today or next week that people who are subject to the hardness of that arrangement should also be referred to that committee and not have to wait for a safety net. It may be that you say that a mistake has been made here by a parent and therefore that compensation may not be in the picture. The consequences of what has happened may well be so great that there is additional damage. I would therefore like a safety net not to be used or abused for this purpose. It will then become a huge collection tray of what still has to be removed. We must be able to arrange for people who have fallen under the harshness of the scheme to say 'we have not paid that own contribution, that is obvious, and we do not want to go back to them at all' and say that they have been evicted from their homes because of it, yet they can go to that committee without having to wait for that safety net. As far as I am concerned, that would be a fancy solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u66	Mrs Leijten has a proposal for the form, but I drew attention to the fact that she said that the hardness of this scheme does not compensate for any additional damage. That's how I thought I understood her. My answer to that would be: 'No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That Mrs Leijten chooses a different form, I respect and we are about to hear the answer to that, but the picture that there would be nothing for these parents, I thought... I don't think that was what she argued either, so I would like to take away that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u67	I'll be honest with you. If a parent is compensated for the hardness of the scheme this summer and says "I want to go to that committee," the answer will be: you have to wait until the safety net arrives. And that's not gonna happen until November. And I would be so happy to arrange for those who will be able to report to that committee this summer. You know what I mean? If the intention is that we take care of it, let's not wait for that safety net. That's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u69	Mr. Chairman. This safety net is available for exceptional situations, very poignant cases and even "unforeseen situations" are included in the flow chart. What is it? And then I wonder: what is "exceptional" or "very poignant"? How many times do kids have to go to bed hungry? How often should there be no birthday parties or holidays? Must have broken up a marriage? Must there have been a home eviction? Does the career have to be cut off? Must there have been a severe depression even thinking at the end? What's harrowing? Who's gonna decide that and who's gonna decide that? This isn't good. Very exceptional situations and very distressing: that is limiting, pushing away. It is not what the Ombudsman says: around the table, generous, come out. I would like an answer to that. That safety net I said just now is actually going to be a bit of a collector for everything that's going to come. Is it also correcting ethnic profiling? I'm reading that a little bit between the lines. We don't have that report from the Personal Data Authority. We all see it coming at us: yes, that's what happened, you just read it in the WOB. Those parents are wondering: why is it in my file all the time that I am Turkish, when I was born in the Netherlands and am Dutch? There's just been a look at those glasses. If that is to be done there and the Secretary of State actually knows that, I think we should know that too. That chapter of those missing pieces, for example, is still running. Mr Azarkan asked about the state of the investigation and the complaint made by Mr Niessen, who, of course, raised the question. Is that gonna get in there? One more question about the arrangement that exists. There are now three schemes or actually four: compensation, getting your money back under the hardness, getting a payment arrangement under intent/bold debt and then a safety net for the rest. From that scheme of intent/greater debt, I understand that you will have to pay for two years on a bespoke basis, but that debt will remain after that. I don't read anywhere that it expires. This means that these people are always confronted with paying that debt for a long time if, for example, they get something back from the Tax Office. That could take 30 years, and is that desirable? Is that desirable? Mr. Chairman. What exactly happened to that first selection that was made about those CAF 11 equals? How did it happen? Yeah, it took place at research level. But that brings me to the Tonga case. Mr Azarkan has already said a few things about this. There are a number of similar or possibly similar cases in the Official Journal. That's where Tonga just stands at "probably similar." Why not? I didn't get that answer. The Secretary of State replies that all parents of the Tonga are equal, but they are not. There is one who has been offered compensation and the rest has been rejected. And they don't fall into those other situations that are mentioned, that you're in two CAF cases. That's really not the issue there. That brings me to the next question. I understand that at least one has been admitted to the possibly comparable. That's nice for those parents, but there's another one in that list that's just as similar and the parents were rejected. So I would very much like to have a sort of scoreboard why which have been lost and why which have fallen into it. There must be, because that committee scored that at research level, whether it came from the ADR or was determined by the Tax Administration. I actually want to see that. Because I am really surprised that a mother who has won a lawsuit and who is covered by a CAF case that is referred to as possibly comparable, gets a rejection and that in another case, in which it was not actually expected, parents are now comparable and enter into that compensation scheme. So I'd like to know a little bit more about that. Then the clumsy letter from two weeks ago: it was a rejection, it was not a rejection, it was a decision, you can object to it, consider the letter but not sent. When we received Mrs Goncalves Tavares' letter last week, we were actually all shocked. How could that have happened? Why I keep asking about this CAF, is because we still don't know what happened there. What was the worst? Was CAF 11 really the measure of things? I see in other dossiers that, for example, agreements have been made, including with large groups of parents. Has that happened before? Does that have a possible legal effect on other CAF files? I'd like to know. We know that the CAF selection methods have been introduced into risk models. How did that work out in a later selection of individual people? I would also like to know that. Mr. Chairman. As we talk here, there's an entire organization of contacts, personal businessmen and you name it all. They should help people get everything they're doing. Now there's a mother under mandatory control. The director makes the debts rise: from energy, water and housing corporation. The mother must complain about it, go to court and pay again to get another director. That's all horrible legal and cost a hell of a lot of money. This Secretary of State can't do much about that. This mother will be compensated this summer, but she is afraid that her money will disappear if it goes to the director who, to put it mildly, ends up with its edges. I have asked written questions about it before, but is it not possible for a parent to designate a third party, a notary or another secretist? The parent can't have the money himself, but doesn't want it to go to the director. Couldn't that be possible, so that the parent gets a little more control over it and it doesn't all go into the so-called trial costs of such a misdirector? I would very much like the Secretary of State to take that up, otherwise I will have to put it in a motion. Tamara's gonna let me read this to you, too. Tamara has also been in the media several times, because the parents of course had to show themselves. "I noticed during my conversation with my contact that they do not know at all what impact the issue with the Tax Administration has had on our lives. He said, "Your file is so simple, I'm done with it before I go on vacation." That's a nice comment. I haven't gone on vacation in years. And so there were other comments that were offensive." I don't think that's going well. It doesn't go well when I hear that some parents have three contacts by now, and others don't. "Then jokes are made in our group app: Shall we quartets? Do you want mine?" But that's not good, because you want it to go well so badly that there will be trust. Mr. Chairman. It was about the committees as well. I cannot do Mr Azarkan's list as well as he did. There are actually five supervisory bodies or committees on the entire implementation organisation, but mainly the BAK, the Children's Care Advisory Board. You'd better be in the BAK! Then you are asked, then you are a driver, then you are the Dutch polder, then you get a meeting fee, then you are established by royal decree and then you know what your rights and duties are. The BAK's Evenkny I'm always laughing at those abbreviations. The parent panel. That parent panel is made up of vulnerable people. I don't want to say they're vulnerable. They're proud people, but they're vulnerable in the situation. They still have to be compensated or they'll get their hardness. They have to come there voluntarily. We have just seen last Monday's agenda for answering my parliamentary questions: they have to be there for four hours and they have to listen to the Tax Office for an hour and a half. Then I'm thinking, guys, what are we doing? We shouldn't do that, should we? Is the Secretary of State willing to give these parents a much better position? I understand the intention of the Parent Panel and I see what the Secretary of State is doing with it, but these parents have to do it voluntarily and the "administrative polder" to put it this way. I don't really like that. Mr. Chairman. I have a few short questions in between before I close. Is it possible to give parents who do not get their turn soon but who do have financial troubles a certain form of waiting money? It's very common for politicians. Maybe we should put that in for the parents, too. How do we deal with the damage elsewhere? There are bailiffs on the sidewalk again, especially at this time, because the holiday money is being deposited. Can't we do something about that in some way, with directors or whatever, and say, "Don't do that to this group of parents. I'll give you a signal. Keep them out of the wind"? A lot of parents run into the fact that they have BKR registrations, so they can't take on debts or other obligations, can't buy a house. How do we deal with that? Has it been mapped out what the resulting damage could be? I would also like to put the following question. Some households may soon have a lot of money available because they have been compensated or have received a toughest meeting of the scheme. Those people have been in the picture. How are we gonna guide that? How do we ensure the safety of these parents? So we're just gonna let them go? I think the Postcode Lottery has a whole guidance system for people who suddenly get a lot of money. Couldn't we use something like that? If they want it, they never have to. Mr. Chairman. There's still a lot going wrong. We want a tax administration with the human size. But I was told last week that the child-related budget is now also in recovery; parents have been given too little for years and suddenly get what is settled back with the child-care payment debt. It was agreed that that wouldn't happen. I am told that there are miscalculations of the duty-free foot, so that single parents, working parents who are in a rental house outside the rental limits of the social rent, do not have enough room to raise their children. Can you get a look at that? Mr. Chairman. Then I have an important subject that concerns this bill: the Fraud Signaling voorziening, the FSV, the blacklist. The Secretary of State says that access is not possible, because it is in the vault. Well, you can't. It just can't be. Those parents can derive rights from that. That is what the Secretary of State himself said in the letter: if you are in it, it is possible that you can derive rights from it. We're gonna do a whole recovery operation now. Those parents want to know if they're in it. Go create an opportunity. Just sit around the table and see how you can do that. Can there be a third party that can look into it, focused on bsn or focused on name? I understand that the subject is research, but we need to know that. You have to do that in this recovery operation, otherwise you might have to do another recovery operation on that FSV after the recovery operation. Let's not do that. Mr. Chairman. Why is this so important? I told you before: that CAF went on in risk models, but we also know that everything that has to do with that FSV has to do with that group-oriented approach, that intent or gross debt. It just goes on and on. Let me read something from the documents that came up in November due to RTL and Trouw's WOB request. It contains a request: "In addition, you will find a file containing 322 bsn's. I would ask you to include the following treatment plans in ABS-AKI for these bsn's." It's about income tax. "Middel: IB/PV Start year: 2009 End year: 2016 Type: 1) Express desired 2) Preliminary assessment requested 3) Not EFTA (2014-2016) 4) No automatic provisional assessment.' So what was found in that CAF works through the income tax. That's why it's so important to see what's in that FSV and how it all works, because the consequences of tackling it by that fraud team at the Tax Administration/Applications could have been big elsewhere in the Tax Administration. So we need to know. For lovers, this was Annex 4.1, document 00066. I say this to underline why it is important that we have access to that FSV. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the investigation at Social Affairs. There's a haircut. Can the Secretary of State come back to that? We are now looking at the documents that are missing, but I would also like to know what reports and presentations have been given about these CAFs within Social Affairs. Now that we have received the red wire document last Thursday, we know that the directors of Finance have been extensively updated on the CAF approach and have received presentations. I'm guessing that happened in Social Affairs, too. I would like that to be included in the investigation. Mr. Chairman. This is a subject with a file... It's unprecedented, and it's also double standards. We have received the phrase that six officials received when they went to talk to the ADR: "As a result of your questions, I hope I can give you the following as reassurance. Internal Directive within the ADR is that call reports are not made available. It is ultimately up to the judge (...) to decide on this. (...) I hope this gives you the confidence to start the conversation with the ADR." That's exactly the kind of trust that parents should have. They haven't had this for years. In this case, there are so many things to be ashamed of. I wish your predecessor, Mr Snel, all the good in life, but that he has a new top position before those parents are compensated... I just don't get happy about that. We need to make a good law, bearing in mind that there are rules that have to work for people rather than people working for the rules. If we are going to shape that today and next week, then we are on the right track. If that's not the outcome, then we need to get back to the drawing board.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u70	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have built up my speech with a number of cups. I will begin with the dilemmas in this file and in this recovery operation. Then the loose ends come, then the regulations, then the law itself and then the final piece on trust. I found out in writing that there's a logical build-up in my story anyway. You get it sometimes. Mr. Chairman. Over the past year, we have had a lot of debates on what has gone wrong in the last few years in the Tax Administration, in the laws and regulations and in the implementation. Today we are talking about recovery, about repairing the damage done to people, about restoring confidence in the Tax Administration and even about restoring confidence in the rule of law. This is actually a debate about what we find fair in solving the injustice that has been done. And then, for me, there are a lot of dilemmas when I pass the legislative proposals and the regulations. The laws and regulations and the implementation have gone wrong in recent years, but it can't be otherwise than that we need new laws and regulations and also the implementation needed to correct those mistakes. At the same time, the Ombudsman is right, as Mrs Leijten has already referred to it. The parents shouldn't suffer from that, no matter what happens under that legal hood. We may need the regulations and the flow charts, as well as the forest of committees, but implementation must be human, understandable and simple. That reversal that Mrs Leijten was talking about is in fact the way in which it should be implemented, as the Ombudsman explained to us last week. And then there is a very specific dilemma with the Tax Administration. Implementation is crucial, but that confidence in the Tax Administration... The people who depend on it no longer trust the Tax Administration, but it is the Tax Administration itself that has to restore that trust. That is also a paradoxical dilemma, one might say. And finally, there is the dilemma of speed. Mrs Leijten referred to Mr Omtzigt's eruption two weeks ago, but Mr Omtzigt is right. One of our core signs, no, the core task of ours, is to make careful legislation. Sometimes we don't spend enough time on that. It's very nice that the Secretary of State gives us an extra week to do it more carefully. The dilemma today is that we want speed on the one hand, because we want to help these parents as soon as possible, start the recovery operation and start to pay back compensation and sums, but on the other hand it has to be done carefully. That too is a dilemma. Mr. Chairman. With all these dilemmas, all these paradoxes and all these uncertainties that are still there, we are going to come up with a lot of questions in a moment, and I feel a little like I need to go to the dentist during this debate. I suffer from toothache and I know I have to be treated, but I'm not sure if the pain is over after that. That's kind of the feeling I'm getting at this law-enforcement thing. It is necessary and we must have the legal engine clear and clear, but in the end it must solve the pain of those people. And that's pretty complicated with all those dilemmas out there. I am also thinking of those parents who are not sitting in the gallery but who are looking at us now and want to follow it, who want clarity, certainty and confidence. However, we have no choice but to have a technical debate today. It is about regulations, about legal arrangements and a technically complex implementation. That must be kind of hard on those parents when they're watching, but it has to be done. We need to get into that technique today and the next week. As Members of Parliament, we must also understand how it is going to work in the future. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the loose ends. First set-up/great debt. Mrs. Leijten has already mentioned it. She is also really the MP who raised this problem, with the black book, most urgently, persistently and persistently. It is in the safety net system that people should be "in exceptional and very distressing cases." That is a really important step, but I do agree with Mrs Leijten that the way in which the letter of amendment to the safety net is now taking place raises many questions. Because what exactly does that mean? How are these criteria gonna work? What does "in exceptional and very poignant cases" mean? I hope that we will have more clarity about this this week if we have to decide on the legislative proposal next week. Because what is ultimately behind it is a comparison with the CAF cases and that treatment. Even in individual cases, in case of intent/big debt, there may have been biased actions and people may have been wrongly identified as fraudsters. They could have suffered a lot of damage from that, too. Another loose end. Mrs Leijten also spoke about this. How do we deal with missing documents? This is still being investigated, but what does it mean in the future in implementation if we are going to help all those different people in all these different arrangements? And how do we deal with the blacklist? That too is unclear. Parents want to know if they were on it, but what does that mean in the future? What if a decision has already been made, because we want to start quickly and people have ended up in one of the recovery schemes and later it turns out that they have really been affected by the blacklist effect? For example, can they still enter the safety net system? That's actually more true. If new information comes up in individual files and there is already a decision, is the road to the safety net still open? The Secretary of State already replied to this in the note on the report, including questions from the VVD and the CDA, but I still do not understand it. Or maybe I don't want to understand it, because I also want that safety net scheme to remain open. Then there's the loose end of ethnic profiling. We have to wait and see what the Dutch Data Protection Authority says. In the previous debate, I expressed my annoyance at this. Mr Azarkan did that again today. Then we can see how we're going to fix this injustice. However, it is difficult that we do not yet know exactly how this is going to happen in this debate and in this debate. How does the Secretary of State see that? For example, does this law provide a framework for this through the safety net? Or is she thinking of a separate bill? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the schemes, the various recovery schemes themselves. In addition to generosity, this is really about justice. Spaciousness is the intention of execution, you might say. But justice is the feeling that people should be able to get their own when a decision has been made. That is why these two things are linked: generous and just. Whether it concerns the CAF cases, where in CAF 11 cases the group has access to the compensation, or the individual assessment where there is or is not bias, or, as I have just pointed out, the OGS and its harrowingness, or people who are not eligible for the compensation scheme or the most severe meeting, but perhaps for the safety net scheme: grey areas are constantly emerging. On the one hand, we want that space. But the harder and the sharper we make the criteria, we all tend to be politicians, I think, because this creates clarity, the less space there is for generosity. That's, I think, the paradox. That gives us incredible uncertainty as Members of Parliament. How should we assess these arrangements and how do people get into these different boxes? That certainly gives rise to uncertainty for parents as well. How can the Secretary of State convince the parents besides us that the execution is going to be generous? After all, parents must feel that the compensation they receive is just. The feeling they have must be a just feeling. Mr. Chairman. We need to prevent this from becoming a legal fight that parents have to start delivering. That is indeed the message of the Ombudsman. At the same time, there must be room for opposition and appeal. Despite all the fine words and no matter how beautiful and beautiful it looks on paper, I still worry when I see that formal decisions are taken in several steps through the flowchart. I'm worried about the trial. The letter Mrs Leijten mentioned last week is actually an example of that. How are we going to ensure that people are reassured in this whole process, and not constantly faced with new uncertainty? Mr. Chairman. Then the law, with some specific questions about that. We have talked about the burden of proof before; Mrs Leijten has often done so. It's gonna be an incredible problem if files aren't in order. The Secretary of State states that the service is going to help and that it is a joint responsibility. That's good. But why does Article 49 (3) (a) of the Hardness Scheme state that a revision of the Decision is dependent on the fact that the parent has made it plausible that the own contribution has been paid in good time? I have now tabled an amendment to that effect. I would like to hear the reaction of the Secretary of State, because that burden of proof cannot be left with the parents alone. Mr Azarkan referred to the dilemma of time. Article 49 (9) states that the decision must be taken within six months. That's a long time. I understand the task that lies in the execution, but should a solution not be as much as possible within three months, whereby this period is only exceptionally extended? And what about exactly the accumulation of decision-makers when people go through the process for different regulations? I have now tabled an amendment to that effect. Mr Azarkan referred to this. At the same time, I am not sure that I fully understand the legal situation. I am therefore open to amending that amendment if it is necessary to make it more practicable and to regulate it legally properly. Then there is the hardness clause, Article 47. Why is there no objection or appeal against it? There is a legal argument behind that. I read it, but I still find it uncomfortable. These are all legal questions, but they have effect in practice, not only with retroactive effect, but also in the future. Mr. Chairman. I come to trust the block. We need to avoid legal proceedings, but we need to know how it works. The flow chart, the forest of commissions: it must help parents and not be a burden. It must not lead to unnecessary procedures, it must not become a bureaucratic swamp. It should help restore confidence and not create mistrust. That is, after all, today's main dilemma: how is the implementation going? This can only be proved in practice. Will it give confidence to the parents, who no longer trust the service and the government, and who can no longer read a letter from the government? On behalf of the parents, we in the Chamber must have the confidence that the recovery will be generous and just. That is why I have two more questions, or two suggestions, on which I am considering motions. I understand that the flow schedule and the commission work are necessary, as a back-up engine, if we do not get out of it, if it does not go as the Ombudsman would like. Then we need it to settle conflicts eventually. But I think it's gonna take a little more. I would very much like to see the Ombudsman in a supervisory role, with due regard for his independence and the inability to withdraw him and make him responsible for it. I would not agree with him if he had to wait for individual complaints about implementation, and if, for example, we did not see any problems until a year ago and could respond to them. Just because this is about the perspective of the citizen, of the parents, of generosity, I would very much like to see the Ombudsman keep his finger on the wrist. Does the Secretary of State see a way to do that? I'd like a response. My second suggestion is about the organization. We all realize it's gonna be an incredible job. It is about questions and problems, about reservoirs that are going to arise, about file processing, about ICTs that could be made mistakes. It can't be done without mistakes. It would be a good idea for the General Court to have a role in this and to be able to examine the recovery operation specifically next year, on the basis of the responsibility to control the management of the administration. We could ask the Court of Auditors, as a Chamber, I am curious to hear the reaction of my fellow Members to include this as a special subject in next year's accounts. Then we could also ask that, if necessary and desirable, an interim report be made in one year's time. The advantage of the Court is that they are used to looking into the organisation from day one. Maybe weird eyes will help the organization do it as well as possible. That's what we all want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u72	Will you finish up, Mr. Snels?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u73	I was with my last two sentences, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u74	Then I'm early.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u75	I think this could have a positive effect, but I'm not sure, so I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Finally, Mr President. Mrs Leijten and Mr Azarkan also talked about it: it can also go wrong with all that legislation and all that regulation, because we do not know exactly how it will work. Can the Secretary of State promise us that if all these criteria are not properly implemented in the near future, we will be able to adapt them, if necessary with urgent legislation, if necessary with appropriate legislation and regulations? If necessary, the Secretary of State, but also the Chamber, should be able to amend it. I'd like a commitment on this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u76	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I spoke to you because you used cubes. But I understand you're already practicing for trade-K. That's good. I now give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the debate so far, I believe that the two most frequently mentioned words are 'right' and 'trust'. Those are also the key words in my contribution: to do justice and to give confidence. Giving this confidence is primarily about restoring confidence, knowing that trust has not been run away with one horse, but with a whole herd of horses, and therefore not on foot, but probably needs to be restored crawling. Mr. Chairman. I thought it might be a struggle to look at this law. Legal texts are patient when you sit at home waiting for a ton of illegally recovered childcare allowance to be returned, treating you as a fraud and destroying your life. Then legal texts are patient. I have read all the words of the Secretary of State in the explanatory statement and in the very useful general letter which she has sent us before this debate. She's putting together again what she's doing. We have received a hundred pages of answers to our questions in the preparation of this debate. There are a lot of words in there that show what the intention is. I'm just gonna put a few sentences together. "If in doubt, we will decide in favour of parents." "It's going to be a simple, generous way of granting it." "We're going to be able to be supportive, proactive and conflict-solving in contact with the parents." "As a tax administration, we will deal generously with the burden of proof." "Olders are not going to wait unnecessarily long." "We're gonna help parents with a personal business manager." Mr. Chairman. These are good, appropriate words. But the only proof that we will really get for this is that we are now expressing confidence in this approach. In the end, trust will have to be shown in how parents are dealt with by the Tax Administration in the conversations, what the attitude is there, how it is thought about, how open-minded that is, whether it can actually be made as fast as possible, while maintaining care. I recognize Mr Snels' dilemma. Also the dilemma of treating this law very quickly, because we don't want to keep parents waiting any longer. They've often waited so long. That's what makes this lawmaking complicated. We know that in a number of areas further regulation is still required. My question to the Secretary of State is how she will involve the Chamber well in the arrangements and in the AMvBs. This also requires us to give some confidence now, because the Tax Administration has to work and because the Tax Administration, I think, often has to start with a 10-0 disadvantage towards parents. How are we going to restore that confidence? You can't do that with legal texts alone. Those legal texts have to be good. Of course, that's our job. But there must also be an implementation in which we have confidence. That is why I think it is sensible that many independent review committees have been added. It provides an extremely complex system under the hood. I also recognise the quest of all colleagues in the preparation for this legal process. In the end, parents need to be helped and not have the impression that they have to jump from hoop to hoop. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that these different regulations are not going to feel like a kind of obstacle job when a parent's file is being dealt with or when a parent is being spoken to? It really has to be a way of getting together with parents as quickly as possible at the heart of how they are going to be helped. How are we gonna make that happen? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask one more question about the investigation at the Ministry of Social Affairs before I move on to the regulations. We received a letter from the Secretary of State for Social Affairs about the investigation within the Ministry. Mrs Leijten has already asked for this. I have two questions about that. The first one is about the timeline. I read that it is now October, and I would really like to ask whether the Secretary of State would like to send us a more detailed letter or not. The second question concerns the fact that it is now stated that research is being carried out and that talks are being made to see if all the pieces can surface. Mrs Leijten added a few words to those documents, because it is really all about the childcare allowance and the problems raised by the Tax Administration five years ago in the Ministry. How'd that go? It seems to me that the core is to search in the piece stream. I would like to hear in a letter how it is handled. If it turns out on the basis of that stream of pieces what it is, then perhaps it is indeed exactly clear what has happened. That's, I think, what we want. But if it isn't, I think it might take some kind of follow-up to get a closer look, even in conversations, at what went wrong there. Would the Secretary of State be able to send us a further letter? Can I ask through this Secretary of State? To indicate how she makes sure that at the end of the ride we not only found pieces, but found the truth above all else? What happened? Because as far as I'm concerned, this is still a missing link, a missing link. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to trust, I think it is a good thing that when it comes to the Tax Administration, it is once again explicitly stated: a new organisation is being rigged for it. In the written reply it is stated that employees of the Tax Administration who are involved in CAF investigations do not play a role in the repair organisation and do not become, as it were, a contact person for the parents. I think it is important that the Secretary of State pronounces that once again. Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels made a point that I would also like to make: it is a lot of things, we come from a long way, and that is not going to go well. As beautiful as the law is and as good as the intentions are, mistakes are going to be made. I think that we need to realise this and that it is essential how these mistakes are dealt with. I therefore call for complete openness to be exercised very quickly when things go wrong and to try to restore it as soon as possible. That's gonna be painful, but I think it's necessary. Mr. Chairman. The suggestion has indeed been made that we should keep our finger on the pulse, not only in terms of whether parents will be helped quickly, but also if things that we now think are helping do not in practice prove to be the solution we hope for. Then we will also have to have the courage to adjust. Mr Snels spoke about emergency legislation and I myself have questions about the law we are discussing. I will come to that, but I am really concerned about the attitude, because that trust is also the confidence that the Tax Administration and the Secretary of State will act in this way. Mr. Chairman. I actually want to ask a number of very specific questions about the various schemes that parents can end up in to be helped. It is extremely complicated and it gets a bit technical occasionally, but I do my best to do it as easily as possible, even for the people who follow the debate but may not have been introduced in detail. The first question is about the parents in CAF 11. Compensation has already been paid and there are now 40 parents who have taken legal action. They say, "The real harm is greater." One of the important steps, as far as I am concerned, is that a decision by the Secretary of State came out on 26 May saying more broadly that compensation can be supplemented by actual damage. There is also an advisory committee for this, a committee on which I had a small debate with Mrs Leijten earlier. But how do we deal specifically with this group, which has already been decided in CAF 11? Is that being dealt with proactively? Because with that decision, we have actually created an additional regime to hopefully be able to compensate for the real damage without legal action. How's the IRS gonna do? How's the Secretary of State gonna handle that? Mr. Chairman. Then we have the 2,200 parents who have had a letter that they are in a case similar to CAF 11. I mentioned that in the technical briefing a kind of fast lane. In this group, the Secretary of State says on the basis of the Committee of Wise Men: this is evidently like CAF. So all parents unless there's really nothing wrong, but then we're talking about a tiny percentage of................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But when will it become clear that these parents are also in the fast lane? Is there any timeline for these 2,200 parents to give? They've had news now. I understood that Mrs Leijten said that the term "good news" does not fit here. It's doing people justice, as I called it in my own introduction. How's this going? Is there anything to say about the timetable? Because this is about doing people justice and it's about a lot of money. When will that be clear? And I'll be right on the letter, but did I understand correctly that the other parents... But I see Mrs. Leijten standing, so I'm gonna wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u78	I would also like to wait for that last sentence, because it may contain the answer to my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u79	Maybe that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u80	I'm fine with it, Mr. Chairman. In addition, you have parents who have had a letter in a case that according to the Committee of Wise Men, which does not follow the Donner Committee... I would also like to hear some further explanation of the substance of that distinction. It is an independent committee that I want to trust, because that is what we have the committee for, and so we have that confidence. But those other parents received a letter saying that you are not eligible for compensation, but perhaps you are eligible for the hardness regime. As far as I am concerned, this letter is not only ill-worded and unclear and not only gives the impression that the ball is completely back with the parents, but is that letter, above all, incorrect. From the answer and from the technical briefing, I have just understood that these parents are all assessed individually for bias. This raises the question many of us had: how could such a letter have gone out? I don't suppose that's gonna happen again. But I do have a question about how parents are supported to get there. I am so curious now whether this was what Mrs Leijten wanted to know! I'm guessing she has another question when I look at her like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mrs. Leijten, what did you want to know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u82	We now know that 10,000 people have been assessed at research level. Of these, some 2,200 have fallen into the happy category and about 8,000 have been rejected. But wouldn't Mr Van Weyenberg be very curious as to what exactly those grounds of rejection were and what gauge, which scoreboard was used? For example, that publication in the Official Journal contains Tonga, while all of these people have been rejected. There is, for example, Anker, which includes a parent who has won a trial but has now been heard: you should not be included in the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u83	I asked that question in perhaps a slightly different word, namely where that distinction came from. We have the five criteria mentioned in the Donner Committee's opinion. I think this is complicated. I do not want to sit on the chair of that committee of wise men, because I think I am undermining that committee of wise men, but I asked if the Secretary of State could comment on the difference which apparently led the Donner Committee to a slightly different consideration with those same criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u84	I asked what I asked, so let's see how the Secretary of State responds. D66, of course, does not have to go along with that and does not have to take over that question. But wouldn't it just be good if people knew why they didn't fall into those five categories? 'Cause they don't know that now, do they? They can now apply for a personal treatment, but they don't know what they were eventually rejected for. That's actually the same thing as with that scheme/great guilt: you don't know what you're suspected of and what you have to defend yourself against, but you don't know why you fell out of that set that you might be able to prove. Wouldn't that be helpful to those parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u85	There's something I found unfortunate about that letter. You call that rejection. That's the letter. I'll admit it right away. But that is not what this is all about, as far as I am concerned. A number of CAF cases have, by definition, been declared comparable by the Committee of Wise Men and I was just asking for them myself, and I think that is very similar to the question you asked the Secretary of State about how this balance has been made and where the differences are, because it is not quite the same as the Donner Committee, if I understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u86	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u87	As far as I'm concerned, those other parents weren't rejected at all. They pass the same bar, but individually. The Secretary of State says that we have a great deal of eyes on these parents and they are contacted. Don't let this be the first obstacle on the obstacle course. How's the trial going now? That letter, I thank the parent who gave us a copy of that letter, for example, indeed gives the impression that you have been rejected and that impression must go away. So how's it going with those contacts? Has there been much contact? What image does these contacts come out of? Because there is something to put right here, let me just say in the extension of that. It must be clear to parents that they are placed along the same bar, the individual size bar, that bias and that the fact that CAF research is not used in total as a comparison does not mean that they have not been treated biased. In fact, I hear stories. But I'm not gonna make that final judgment. That is what we have the organisation that is being rigged for, together with the organisations that independently supervise it. When I hear the stories, I think: well, I see a lot of parallels here with bias. This will have to prove when these parents are assessed individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u88	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u89	Mr. Chairman. Parents who were not comparable to the CAF, but who may have been subject to individual institutional bias, as four of the five criteria of the Donner Commission are applied, may also claim additional damages. That seems important to me. It seems to me to be an extremely complicated task to properly calculate this additional damage. I see an advisory committee and I have confidence in that, but can the Secretary of State say anything about that? These are often extremely far-reaching life events that may sometimes be very difficult to express in money. Can the Secretary of State say anything more about that? Then we have parents who conclude that it is not comparable to CAF, not institutionally biased, but that the scheme was too strict. The hardness of the scheme, the all-or-nothing character: one receipt has not lost all the money. When parents go through this test, they start with regulation, and then you keep looking at it that should not become an obstacle course. Is there any thought about a form in which parents don't end up in some kind of endless months or years of trial here? That's not the Secretary of State's intention. I also referred to those six months before the hardness regime plus possibly six months delay. Does that deadline actually start on 1 July, when the law enters into force, or does it start when parents hear that they are not eligible for the individual compensation scheme? Especially if it's the latter, aren't there any chances of shortening it? Then you will be judged and then the conclusion is that there is no institutional bias, but then you hope to hear very quickly: but we have looked carefully and you may or may not be under that hardness. It shouldn't be the case that people have to wait months after every step. I do not think that is the intention of the Secretary of State, but what about the deadlines? I have seen Mr Snels' amendment. I really think it's relevant when that counter actually starts running. Mr. Chairman. Underneath it is the safety net. We're still waiting for that safety net, and that's a dilemma. I understand part of what's going on here. We want to watch, says the Secretary of State. We were going to use June to see how this worked out in practice and what is appropriate. Because if you get it all tight now, already at this stage, you have the chance that you've created something that might not at all give you the space to do what you want to do. At the same time, of course, we are always very happy to know exactly how this safety net is being completed. A dilemma indeed, including as far as I am concerned. That safety net offers the space for a number of additions. So I also had a discussion with Mrs Leijten when there is real additional damage while you are in that harshness of the scheme. I know she'd like to talk in other terms, but that's what the law says. That safety net has now been supplemented in the letter of amendment for people who are subject to "intention" or "big debt." Three points were still open, the Secretary of State said earlier. The first was ethnic profiling and the investigation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The Secretary of State has indicated I understand that she wants to see later what is the appropriate step to be taken after that report. Is that the safety net? Is that perhaps something entirely different because it is not appropriate? Does that have to be legal or not? That is still difficult to assess, and I hope that the authority's report will come very soon. But how do we deal with the parents for whom it has already been decided that they will receive a compensation scheme or other financial arrangement, who will then later find out that this is happening? Is that possible or does the Secretary of State expect that not to bite in time? I have the same thing with the second open point: the search. Have any documents been lost but perhaps also lost? That could be an argument for saying that parents are entitled to money from that safety net scheme. How does it work in time when, for example, it comes out when individual parents have already decided on something? Built-up/greater debt. What are exceptional and very poignant cases? I, too, would like to have some more coloration of what that is. I have seen Mrs Leijten's amendment. She says: isn't this institutional bias by definition? I think that's an interesting question. I also find it hard to answer for myself because I don't have a complete picture of whether all these groups, the thousands of parents that are in here, are comparable. So I'd like to have some coloring from the Secretary of State. She now chooses to record it in a safety net. Apparently, she thought that was so firm that she said, "I have to take care of that." I think that's a win. I still have the question as to why this form was chosen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u90	I'd like to know how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u91	I need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u92	Two minutes. I've got 39 seconds here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u93	It's sad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u94	How are we gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u95	I'm not helping anyone with very quick talk, Mr. Chairman, so I'm afraid I'm going to test your patience for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u96	A question, Mrs. Leijten? No. Okay. Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u97	If she didn't want to ask a question, she was in the wrong place, but I don't know. Mr. Chairman. This was about intent/great debt. I would like a little more coloring of what the month of June is going to look like. I'll just mention the period of: we're gonna start, but we're gonna see if it works. How is the Secretary of State gonna take us into that trial? Finally, Mr President. As far as I'm concerned, the law is a good basis. I have seen many amendments which appeal to me, which I also understand. One is about an evaluation. I find it interesting to give the Ombudsman a role. I have to think about the Court of Auditors. With the Ombudsman, I am immediately intuitively enthusiastic, but in a form that fits the Ombudsman, because I understand that the Ombudsman also wants to keep his hands free, to put it that way. That's part of his independent role. And I hope that as a Chamber we can monitor very closely how it works and that the Secretary of State will inform us very actively, even if things go wrong, even if things need to be adjusted. Finally, I end up where I started. We have a law here. The law isn't even the beginning. That law is the basis on which you'll have to implement it properly. There's a lot of trust to regain. By the way, I also believe that we should abolish this system of surcharges at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u98	I have another question for Mr Van Weyenberg. You may remember: the House of Representatives was curious about the criminal aspects of this case. An official note has been made about that. Back then, other MPs were angry with CDA, SP and DENK. Now we know that they were actually looking at the criminal law side of the case at the Ministry last summer and now that we see that there has been a report, in what light does Mr Van Weyenberg look back on 2 December?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u99	I believe that the chairman of the Finance Committee said a few things about this at the time. It remains to me that I think it is very good that you ask something on my behalf, but that I do like it when I know it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u100	We talked about that. It was actually said in that procedural meeting that we were out of line and that it could not be repeated. But the idea that we, as a preparatory group, also looked at the criminal law side of the case, while it had already been mapped out in the Ministry, and we now know that there was even a need to report it, hasn't been so crazy at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u101	No. And if you'd discussed that with me, I might not have thought that was crazy at all. Only when I hear afterwards that something has been asked that I did not know you were going to ask on my behalf, I find that unpleasant. Moreover, the fact that, in any case, the media were considering a complaint against the Secretary of State was incorrect as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u102	Mr Van Weyenberg has often spoken here about ethnic profiling. He has also indicated a number of times that this research really needs to be done very quickly. Van Zutphen, the Ombudsman, has indicated that there is a broader bias within the government. D66 not only has the opportunity to talk about this on Facebook and other social media, which I often see Mr Rob Jetten do, but also the opportunity to do something about it. Last week there was a vote on a motion on wider screening. Whatever's going on with the IRS is happening in other places, too. Mr Van Raan and I have tabled a motion on public scrutiny of professional discrimination. To my surprise, D66 voted against. Why is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u103	That was for two reasons, not because I do not agree with the importance of the subject, but because the Secretary of State indicated in that debate: you are asking a question that is so broad that I cannot judge it here as one-two-three. The second is that I would like to await the Ombudsman's inquiry. I'm really curious what's coming out of that. How do we handle signals? The third is that we supported your party colleague's motion, at least the last time I checked Mr Kuzu on an action plan against discrimination and racism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u104	I think there were two reasons, but I just heard three. I just don't understand. We have evidence of professional discrimination. 2.5 million people in an SCP monitor indicated that they regularly experience pain. We know that happens within the Tax Administration and we know other implementation organisations, such as the SVB and the UWV, where people have similar experiences. I think it's good that D66 expresses that pain on social media and does so on TV night after night...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u105	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u106	And that also happens permanently in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u107	And that also happens permanently in this Chamber, but those are words. Those are words. I would like to see action on this. I still do not understand why a motion that simply asks if the Secretary of State can do that with her colleague is not accepted; we have also spoken here with Ollongren, at least I, from my role the government can test more widely. For it cannot be that this is limited to just one implementation organisation. I note that D66 says 'we think it is important; discrimination, racism and ethnic profiling must be tackled'...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u108	Mr. Azarkan!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u109	...but you're voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u110	The question must be brief and so must the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u111	Yes, Mr President, but it will be short films and I do not want to do that to Mr Azarkan. My point is that this is specifically about the Tax Administration. I believe that we should discuss this properly by organisation and that we should also discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think we are going to have a very short-term debate on discrimination. I think that's very good. Then we're going to judge that on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, I have tabled various amendments and motions here, for example on the approach to discriminatory employment agencies. I have done so regularly with Mr Azarkan. Quite apart from the fact that Mr Azarkan is disappointed because I did not support his motion, he cannot sincerely blame me for not implementing it in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u112	Thank you. You're just gonna stand there? You're not leaving?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u113	Maybe that's what you want, Mr. Chairman. I get that impression sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u114	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u115	As a Member of Parliament, I would like to... I think I have four questions. Colleagues also have that, so I would like to ask my follow-up question. Can we do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u116	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u117	But you stay so quiet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yeah, that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u119	I saw the chairman thought I was shutting down, but I'm still nice to you in interruption, my colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u120	Well, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u121	I really care about the actions. I think it's a little lame: movies. I see that Mr Jetten, Mr Van Weyenberg's boss, is talking a great deal about tackling discrimination. He says a lot about that. Now there's a way to really do something about that. We are talking about serious issues here. I'm really thinking about how we profile ethnically with the theme, which I know is affecting a lot of people... Entrepreneurs, people with benefits and people who have to take an exam at the CBR feel that they are being treated differently. We have the possibility of I hope I get the support, but I'm going to submit it one more time to check this out in width. It's not that complicated. I would say to D66: try to support not only in words, but also in deeds. You've done that a lot, and you can do that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u122	This is a debate with the Secretary of State on the IRS. If we are going to do this more broadly, whether it is with the Prime Minister or with whoever is going to be present in that debate, I would like to talk to you and colleagues about what we can do on a national scale. I just think it's important that you look at this on an organization-by-organisation basis. I repeat the call that after all these fine words about ethnic profiling, which I fully agree with, it is still a pity that I find the real promise that DENK will never make itself...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u123	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u124	...more guilty to make, unfortunately still haven't heard clip-and-ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u125	A short answer also applies to you. I would like to make a general comment, so I hope that everyone will take it seriously. I have recently noticed that the interruptions are being argued, with introductions and summaries. Before a question is asked, we will be a few minutes further. Everyone has filled in extensive speaking time. The Rules of Procedure state that an interruption consists of a brief remark or a short question. I'm gonna watch that very closely. I see you standing, Mr. Van Otterloo, but first we're gonna have dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u126	I give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the time of registration I had already intended to speak no longer than two interruptions, so I keep it limited. Not because the subject is not serious enough, but rather because I think we need to find solutions here as soon as possible. I have tried to bring that speed in from the outset by arguing that this would be arranged outside the legal story and that this should simply be seen as damage caused by the government. That would also have made more customization possible. This would also have been more appropriate to the Ombudsman's wishes for swift and generous compensation. However, we are a legislative body, and so we come into legislation, in that respect. Then you can see at once how difficult it is to compensate for so many different things that have gone wrong in legislation. You can also see to what extent legislation is going through and the blame is being laid on Bulgarian fraud. We can also look at ourselves as a Chamber, and that is certainly true for the government too, in order to respond with a little more distance to incidents. In this respect, I can agree with a great deal that has been said in detail. The point is that these people are being helped. The picture I have is that at the same time there have been many different problems, both in the execution and in the people. People have suffered in very different ways. My main concern is to what extent this damage is properly identified in these procedures. In this respect, I am very open to some of the amendments aimed at trying to bring more into it, but I also note that we are again working on a Christmas tree in which more and more balls are being hung. This only leads to the fact that the view of what actually needs to be done may get farther away rather than closer and that the solution for the people gets farther away. I have also looked at this proposal in a different way. This has a human image in it when it comes to fraud and abuse. We need to look more closely and not assume that anyone who uses the scheme is a potential fraud. There has been fraud, but by the very person who organized the offer. That is why I think it is right that this should be referred to as an element, but at the same time it leads me to the question whether this is also very broad in government policy. Because I also know situations, for example in the case of pgb fraud, where fraud was committed by the service provider and where the pgb holders, people with an IQ somewhere between 70 and 85 were held responsible for the wrong expenditure or under-supply of care. It can't be. I would just like to use the space we have now in this discussion to ask the Secretary of State for next week's discussion to check to what extent the application of this attitude, namely the hardness clause, is possible, because it covers all the supplements and therefore also what is happening in Social Affairs, Home Affairs and VWS. I think we can achieve something more than just today. As has been the case so far and as we have seen in the round table, it must not be done. If you get a ticking list again and have to wait until you fit in with the last cross, that's not the way to treat people in this situation. What you have to do is see what the position of the people is and see which box they belong in, instead of the other way around, as it was in the letter, and send people guidance. Then we will not have to take everything away from the Tax Administration in order to correct the execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u128	Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. Mr Edgar Mulder has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u129	Once again a debate on the tragedy of unjustly stopping and recovering the childcare allowance. And finally a debate on the most important thing: the return of unduly reduced money and the compensation for the damage. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is certainly not the last debate. There's a lot more to follow. A debate about those responsible: what went wrong within the Tax Administration and what did politics know? As the PVV stated in the previous debate, what did Mr Snel know about D66? He had to resign, but what did he know? Was and is he a cop? And how guilty are Mr Weekers and Mr Wiebes of the VVD? And why did Mr Asscher of the PvdA do nothing when he had the opportunity? All questions that will hopefully be answered in a parliamentary interrogation committee. And, of course, we are still going to have the debates on the use of blacklists. Have these blacklists been used? Is everything limited to the childcare allowance or is there also a problem with the other allowances? Today, therefore, the repair law; the law that must lay the foundations for repairing the damage done. It is an important law, but that law must be rushed through it with steam and boiling water, because it seems that everything has to be completed before 1 July. That's really fast. This House has little time to judge everything properly. Yesterday, a bunch of paper came in. The texts that communicate with them, I would like to say again, are completely incomprehensible to ordinary Dutch people. I read somewhere that seven legislative proposals, policy decisions and ministerial arrangements are needed to make the settlement legally final. So it's complicated, but isn't it about good and clear communication? Then why is that incomprehensible language needed? I cannot deal with the "further codification of the principle of proportionality" or "unforeseen injustices." It is very simple and probably lyrics used daily by the D66-elite, but the rest of the Netherlands can't do anything with this. We also see this in the correspondence with the parents. They're incomprehensible letters. People read the letter four times and they still don't know what it actually says. We've set up a parent panel and a communication schedule has been fired off, just for that reason. In fact, I fully agree with Mrs Leijten that this parent panel should be given a better position. Mr. Chairman. I think everyone in this room wants to compensate the parents, and quickly. Actually, you want to vote for the law and you have to vote for the law, but there's still so much unclear. Why does the Tax Administration need additional regulation in order to be able to make a proportionate assessment of a decision? Isn't that a standard part of everyday work in every company? We are talking about the compensation system, the toughness and the safety net clause. We've had meetings and I've read the law, but who's actually CAF comparable? When has there really been institutional bias? What's actually going to be compensated? That's what it's all about, isn't it? Does the actual damage include having to sell your house at a loss? Will you get the difference back? Do you get the money back when you stop applying for a supplement, because the IRS didn't want to tell you what you'd done wrong in the last few years, which means you won't get a supplement anymore? Can you get that back? Are you getting your back pay back because you've had to quit working? I can't find it in there. And when are you eligible for the hardness control? How is this determined in practice? Can these parents only get the proportional part back, and is that it? I also do not understand the enthusiastic reactions to the safety net regulation very well. It is clearly stated, at least in the explanatory memorandum on page 15 of the decision, that it is merely a concession. It's not compensation, but it's just compensation. Mr. Chairman. This law, and actually the whole process surrounding this law, is becoming more and more a matter of trust. Today, therefore, when assessing this law, it is mainly about trust: trust whether justice is being done, trust whether fair play is being played and trust whether the implementation of the law is fair. That's on the table today. Unfortunately, the first signs are not good: Mr Donner, who publicly refuses to answer and only wants to explain in a back room, and letters sent to parents, in which, without an explanation, without a dossier, an assessment is already being made in, as has been said, a language that is really difficult to understand. It has been said before this evening: it is still hard and hard for the Tax Administration itself to judge its own actions; that is something with butcher and own meat. In short, even after sending the modified flowchart "Thank you" and a further explanation is still not clear. In fact, much is not clear. I do not think it is clear who is going to be eligible for the hardness regime, who is going to be eligible for the safety net provision, what is going to be compensated, if something is going to be compensated, and to what extent will parents be compensated. The worst thing, the ultimate blow to the parents' face, is that it has been said a few times today that they are the first move again. Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. The PVV asks if it is possible that the duped parents are actively approached and that they get generous butter with the fish. Spacious. Don't go re-assessing old years on the basis of documents that the IRS doesn't have anymore. That will be a prayer without end. It is not for the government to ask these people to provide any more evidence. They've turned in too many years of their lives. That is sufficient for the PVV. Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the Secretary of State can start without this law from 1 July. To this end, the CAF 11 and similar (CAF) cases have already been taken. Expand this wherever necessary and proceed swiftly. Just get started. In the meantime, your officials can work on concrete legislation and the corresponding clear implementing rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u130	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u131	Mr. Chairman. Today, we are discussing a law to provide justice for thousands of parents: parents who have been fighting for years with the Tax Office, parents who have been unjustly convicted as fraudsters and parents who have been disadvantaged by the hard work of the childcare allowance. Today I'm standing here in front of those parents. I do not have the illusion that we are regaining the trust of these parents with this legal treatment today, because this has caused them too much personal suffering. My group would like to take an important step in dealing with this law: compensation for the parents concerned. To take this step, a legal framework is needed. There are still a lot of questions to ask. The present law should provide clarity to parents. Parents need to know where they stand, how their files are assessed, how they deal with the situation in which a file has been lost and how they will be helped if they are not eligible for one scheme but perhaps for another. There is still a lot of work to be done. Last week we talked to some concerned parents. These parents were told that they were in a similar situation to the parents in the CAF 11 case. Equal treatment and equal treatment. However, after the final report of the Donner Committee, these parents were told by a letter that they were not eligible for the compensation scheme. That's what these parents felt like a slap in the face. The letter was cold and cold. For me, it didn't match the Secretary of State's ambition. It is unclear how the assessment of the file took place. The initiative for a possible re-evaluation of their dossier lies with parents. I do not read back in the letter about the personal approach advocated by the Secretary of State. I'd like a reflection from the Secretary of State on this point. And how is she going to steer better communication? The Secretary of State has been working very hard. It presents four target groups and different schemes for which parents can benefit. Many questions have already been asked about the assessment of the dossiers. I, too, would like to dwell on that. I read in the flow chart that the starting point for the assessment process is to make this as accessible and transparent as possible for parents. The Secretary of State states that he wants to keep the complex legal framework under the hood as much as possible. That's a good goal. In this sense, we are pulling on the same side of the rope. At the same time, however, the assessment process must be clear. A structure of advisory councils and committees has been established for the recovery operation. This should not become a paper reality, where it is not clear to parents how the re-evaluation and evaluation of the dossiers take place. Mr. Chairman. I feel strongly about asking this question because last week's conversation with the parents revealed that two parents with the same childcare facility and with the same situation were each given a different assessment. The law must be clear about this. For my group, it is important that parents who are in the same boat are assessed in a clear way. How's the Secretary of State gonna bail that out? Mr. Chairman. Can the Secretary of State reflect on the choice to have the files assessed by the Tax Administration/Applications? More questions have been asked about this today. Trust in this service has suffered a heavy dent. And yet that department is reviewing the files. The Committee of Wise Men then assesses whether the assessment has been carried out correctly. Does the Committee of Wise Men look at each individual file? Has there been any experience of this? I'd like an explanation. The explanatory memorandum to the law states that the assessment of the dossier should take into account the consistency of five criteria set out by the Donner Committee. Would the Secretary of State like to explain exactly what she means by the following quote: "The absence of one criterion does not automatically mean that there is no institutional bias. Nor does the presence of one or more criteria automatically imply institutional bias." What does the IRS judge you for? What weighting does the service give to the different criteria? And what does the Committee of Wise Men then assess? Mr. Chairman. I am asking this question because parents, or the people who help the parents, should be able to check how the assessment was carried out. This applies to an assessment at research level, but also to the assessment of individual dossiers. I am calling for this because my group believes it is important for parents to know where they stand. The Tax Administration does not have very much faith in this issue and I do not want us to discuss the weighting of criteria during the implementation. And if this law comes before the courts, then the judge must also be able to determine whether the evaluation of a file has been properly carried out. Mr. Chairman. In the offer letter of the note following the report we read that the ministerial scheme Decision Compensation Scheme CAF 11 and similar (CAF) cases is not taken over one-on-one. Can the Secretary of State state state what the differences are and why these changes are being made? What does this mean in practice for parents? I would like to get an explanation of what it means to the parents whose files have already been reviewed and what it means to the parents in whom this should still take place. Mr. Chairman. Parents who are not affected by institutional bias may be affected by the hardness of the system. The absence of a signature or proof of payment could lead to the recovery of the entire amount of surcharge. The cabinet wants to meet these parents, and that is what my group supports, but I am concerned about the burden of proof for these parents. How does the Secretary of State deal with this and what does this mean for the feasibility of the scheme? And is this one explained to everyone? Can the Secretary of State indicate when the final ministerial arrangement will come to the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. I read that the Secretary of State will be accompanied by an execution test. Will it undertake that this implementation test also looks at the coherence between the different schemes and then at their feasibility? Mr. Chairman. During the previous debate on the unjustified termination of the childcare allowance, I have already called for attention to be paid to the reduction of the threshold amount. The revision scheme and the hardness scheme can be applied if the entitlement to childcare allowance has been reduced by at least €1,500 in one year. That is more generous than the Donner Committee advised in its final report. Support for this line, but also in this debate, I would like to ask how the Secretary of State is going to ensure that with this enlargement those most poignant cases are the first to assess their dossier as much as possible. Can the Secretary of State confirm that implementation of the arrangements will take place within the desired time limit? Mr. Chairman. Last week, the Secretary of State sent an amendment to the Chamber to broaden the safety net provision. In particular, parents who have been wrongly convicted of intent/greater debt and are therefore in financial difficulties should be eligible for this extension. It is a good step that this broadening is on the agenda. At the same time, it raises questions. Because how does it work for the parents? Is the broadening set-up/greater debt applicable to all parents? Can parents be eligible for the different schemes? How is it handled with parents who have fulfilled their payment obligation following an unjustified conviction for intent/big debt? Are these parents eligible for the compensation provided for by the broadening of the scheme? Or is it only meant for parents with outstanding debts? You will hear, as I say to the Secretary of State, these are important questions, which also have a legal component. I ask these questions because parents may find themselves in a crazy situation that they are not eligible for the compensation scheme or for the hardness scheme and are referred to the safety net clause, which is not yet clear. Colleagues have also asked questions about this. It is really important that we have that clarity. And what will be the message to these parents? How long do they have to wait for the rules to be worked out? And isn't these parents being told something we might not be able to keep? In that sense, I find it unfortunate that the regulation is not yet in the Chamber. I keep repeating that; it has also been mentioned more often. The Committee of Wise Men and the Committee on Supplementary Compensation must make proposals for this. At what time can the Secretary of State clarify how the scheme is to be worked out? I understand that they want to use the month of July as well, but I hope that the Secretary of State can give us an idea of how she sees it. The safety net provision has been created for special, very poignant situations and for parents who have not been adequately helped by other schemes. Can the Secretary of State explain how the assessment of the files notified for the safety net provision will go? How is it going to ensure that different parents who will call on the safety net clause are treated equally? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State assumes different regulations. Can it indicate more the lead time that parents have to take into account? I understand that reservations must be made, such as the availability of the file and the supporting documents. I've already asked some questions about that. But if there is a file, what time does the Secretary of State expect to be able to communicate a decision? I would ask that this be reflected in the various regulations. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State states that he is not yet able to clarify the financial estimate. I understand that, because the files have yet to be reviewed. At the same time, however, the amount of 390 million programme money comes from somewhere. What is the estimate based on? This is also an important indicator for me to be able to assess where we stand and whether this meets the expectations that we have set out at the front. Mr. Chairman. My colleagues Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzigt have asked a lot of questions about requesting the files and making them available. The Secretary of State has introduced a new way of working, that's how we've been able to read. Can it confirm that the new approach falls within the legal framework? Can it say more about the Ombudsman's consultation and the experience gained in the meantime? Mr. Chairman. The present law is not just about recovery and compensation in the past. A number of important steps are also being taken to increase the human dimension. One of these measures is to remove the set-up/greater debt criterion for the recovery of surcharges. My group supports that line. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State how the criterion of gross debt can continue to apply or will continue to apply to the people who are cheating. Mr. Chairman. The government has clearly failed in this file. The fight against fraud has gone a long way, with many parents in distressing situations. We need to fix this and compensate for it. It will take a long time to regain the trust of the parents involved. As far as my group is concerned, this is separate from the real fraudsters' approach. It will be balancing in the near future: a very strong commitment to restoring and compensating the state's missteps and at the same time addressing people who knowingly break the law. How does the Secretary of State view this balancing act? What is she going to do to ensure that real fraudsters are dealt with? Mr. Chairman. Part of the treatment of the law is the judgment of the Council of State. It is customary for the Council of State to judge a law and the feasibility of a law. I cannot help thinking about the role of the Council of State in this legal process. Because, with his statements on 23 October last year, he put an end to the all-or-nothing nature. This is a reason to mitigate the hard effect of surcharges. That is a remarkable turn in favour of the parents, I would like to emphasise. Let's make that very clear. But under the present law, the Council of State has given an opinion on the concept. I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on this point. This is a remarkable turn that must put an end to much suffering. I think that the opinion of the Council of State is rather brief: two and a half A4's. It seems that the past has not been taken into account in the assessment of this law, and there is hardly any consideration of the feasibility and coherence of the various schemes. I am quite concerned about this feasibility, because it will again be the parents who are the victims of it when they fail. So again the question of whether the Secretary of State wishes to reflect on this process and on the lack of assessment of the broad feasibility and coherence of the various schemes. I understand very well that we need to take these steps, but that is why my earlier question is that, at the time when there is a new regulation, we should also look at the feasibility as widely as possible. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. The Secretary of State stands for a huge job: to arrange compensation and recovery for many years of shortcomings of the government. That's not easy. It's a very firm challenge. I feel co-responsible for a good trial and for fair compensation and recovery for all parents involved. We can't win back the trust of these involved parents today. We're gonna have to earn it. Today we are discussing the law laying down the basis for compensation and recovery. There are still a lot of questions open. I look forward to the Secretary of State's reply. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u132	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u133	I have to say: very good questions from the VVD, and I also think a support in the back of all those parents. I have a very different question for Mrs Lodders, who is above this debate. My question has to do with ethnic profiling. In the past, the Prime Minister has been Secretary of State for Social Affairs. That goes back to 2003. Then he provoked racial discrimination, the court ruled. Mark Rutte, then chairman of the political group, responded to that by saying that he still felt it necessary to use ethnic profiling if you are detecting fraud. What does the VVD Group think about that now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u134	We have discussed this issue a number of times here, especially in relation to the childcare allowance. The Dutch Data Protection Authority is conducting a wide-ranging investigation. I think we should wait and see. Based on the results, we'll meet. Ethnic profiling is not allowed. We're very clear about that. I believe that we have recently supported a motion on this issue. It's not for the IRS, and it's not for anyone else. When you want to use certain information to detect fraud, you have to at least record it in the law, so people know what they're selecting. When it comes to this matter, which the Dutch Data Protection Authority is working on, we have lost a lot of weight in it, but let us wait for the report of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I've indicated earlier that I think it's taking a very long time. In my view, I have considered this in detail in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u135	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u136	It is clear that the VVD feels differently now. I think this is good. We're now 12, 13 years away, so we should be. Shouldn't the basis be public under risk selection at all? So we can check where it comes from, what ID it has and whether it is actually the right searchlight for what you want to find.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u137	If you want to detect fraud, you won't be able to clear up all the cases on which you select. The police don't do that in their investigation, and they don't do that in other areas. But the moment you want to use criteria that have been given a place in the law, I think you should then lay down in the law how you're going to use them. We've had the Bulgarian fraud. Then it does not help to set out targeted criteria and to examine Americans or Spaniards a little more closely. Then you're gonna focus on how to do that. I hope that we have a lot of wise people, for example in the Tax Administration, but also in other government organisations, who can do so in a good way. But you're gonna have to invest legally, anchor it, that whatever you do can be tested. But that we put that all the way on a platter everywhere... I'm also a little too focused on, for example, the NVWA: you can't make everything out on the front if you want to detect certain frauds. I believe that Mrs Leijten can agree with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u138	In the previous cabinet Mr Zijlstra indicated that ethnic profiling was a bit nonsense; it is good police work. A colleague of Mrs Lodders, Mrs Dilan Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, says: we need to introduce a bolder approach. Many people say that this leads to ethnic profiling. What is Mrs Lodder's view of this kind of opinion by her colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u139	I think we're on a legal process today. In the direction of Mrs Leijten, I indicated that there is an investigation by the Dutch Data Protection Authority about ethnic profiling. Let's wait and see. I do not need to have a debate here in anticipation of the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u140	That's too easy, really. This is about institutional bias. Those are very fancy words for ethnic profiling. And ethnic profiling is just discrimination, even professionally. It's too easy from the VVD to walk out of here. I simply ask the question: what is the VVD's policy on ethnic profiling / patser approach? Do we believe that groups of citizens can be detained on the basis of their origin and prevention? Or does the VVD say: no, we do not think that is possible; we are also in favour of Article 1 of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u141	In my view, two weeks ago, we had a debate on the unjust recovery of childcare allowances. I have not misunderstood myself about the ethnic profiling by the Tax Administration. I referred to the report made by this Secretary of State against the service. It's in the district attorney's office right now to investigate. In addition, there is an investigation of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I've distanced myself from that ethnic profile. It can't, it can't and certainly can't if you're using criteria that aren't laid down in the law. I can't make it more beautiful for Mr. Azarkan. I think he's looking for nails on low tide right now. As a VVD, we have a very clear position on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u142	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Nijboer has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Emergency laws are an accident. It is precisely for this group of parents who are already suffering from bad legislation that this brings with it an additional duty for the Secretary of State, but also for us as MPs, as co-legislator. We started this debate with the Secretary of State who said we should take a week more time. I think that's wise. Last night, just before midnight, I went over the 100 pages. I thought, "How come there's no input from me at all, 'cause I gave it to you?" Turns out we'd moved on the input time. We had a hearing that I wanted to take with me, so my input was two hours late. It all had to be so fast that my input couldn't be taken anymore. This was just a mistake of ours, but it shows that legislation is coming exactly. We have been talking for hours about the precise details of the flowchart: who is aware of anything when, what are the consequences for the different groups, what exactly does the safety net scheme look like? There will be a heavy veil, because Mr Omtzigt's amendment will make it. But what we're doing has an impact on human lives, on people who have been wronged for years. We take it as seriously as we can. I think we need to think again next week, for that is where my group doubts whether the law is really good enough to do justice to the parents. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask some questions on a number of points. First of all, this law reminds me very much of the approach in Groningen. People were also greatly wronged there. It took years for that to be recognised. The earthquake in Huizinge was in August 2012, so almost eight years ago. Today I have had an effect from the Institute of Mining Damage and the legal offices where people could go. Two weeks ago, we had another debate in the Chamber, at the same time as the supplementary debate, in which it was announced that eleven houses had been strengthened this quarter. At the time, Minister Kamp promised to strengthen 3,000 houses a year. It's been, like, four, five years. Eleven houses this quarter! That is the progress made in Groningen. The Prime Minister apologized there too, just like here. It has been discussed extensively, over and over again, more often than during the supplementing affair, in the Chamber. It is widely recognised that people must be done justice, that the government was wrong, that people have been wronged. People are all jammed up, all jammed up! They've been murwed in procedures. If you need to strengthen your home and you have damage, you need to be at different agencies. It's not being dealt with at the same time. One neighbor gets a demolition-new building scheme for his house and nothing happens at the other house while they live side by side. That's what happens even in two-under-one-hood houses. I hope not, but I fear that the approach that has now been taken will lead to the same misery again. I'm afraid people are gonna get stuck in these different procedures. "You are not comparable to the CAF 11 case at research level, but that does not mean that you cannot be considered individually comparable." That's what I read last night when it was night in one of the answers. Isn't that what makes you despondent? We all saw that letter last week, of course. Isn't it to be despondent when you've been wronged so much, and that's where we stand now? And all that while it's really recognized, huh? I also think that the Secretary of State really fully acknowledges it. Nor do I have the impression that it is not being taken seriously or that it is not doing its best to do it as well as possible. But the question really is: if, as the Ombudsman also said, parents really are taken on board, is this the approach you have to take? The Ombudsman said: you really should use this law as little as possible. For every law, of course, you have to get out together first. That was his main call. Come out together! Then he had a few more terms, didn't he? It had to be legitimate and... I don't know them all by heart, but you have to be reasonable and human. That was the kind of terms that... Is that what we're doing now? When parents who are all screwed up come forward, is that what happens? I have already said that I have even tabled a motion on this issue, which is crucial. I do not blame the Chamber for that, but the PvdA Group did not agree, for example, to the installation of the Donner Committee. You could see that this was difficult and that a complicated report would come out. We were getting reprieve letters. It was gonna take months longer. Then there was a report and then a Donner II committee had to come. And all that after the recognition for the parents. That's one and a half or two years ago, huh? Of course, the Ombudsman was much earlier and those parents are still waiting. Which leads me to think that you should reason the other way around. In fact, you should be able to say to all the parents who have been wronged: on that date you will know where you are, to the left or to the right, and we will worry, to the left or to the right, with the support of the Chamber, and that is Chamberwide that that will be arranged and that you will be done justice. Otherwise, I'm afraid it's taking far too long. I put in that motion on September 1st. That is now very close and you must also be practical, but I would ask the Secretary of State not to allow it to run until 2021, 2022 or 2023. And I have no guarantee that that's not gonna happen. I saw in Groningen that that didn't happen either. I therefore ask the Secretary of State, if she cannot say that for the whole group, to indicate at least an end date for each subgroup. When are all...? Well, I'm gonna get all those names... I hate it too, don't I? You can hardly follow it at home, but it is the CAF 11, the people who resemble it, the people who have been wronged by the law, the people who are for the safety net scheme... When will there be clarity for each subgroup? I think that would help a lot. When do people even know which subgroup they belong to? We still get to see letters every week from people who thought they were part of one group, but turned out to belong somewhere else. And then it can start all over again. Mr. Chairman. I think it is really underestimated how important time in human lives is when it comes to how important it is in policy. There is a need for justice in policy. The same goes for the tax authorities, of course. It can correct returns for up to five years, but yes, time goes on for people. Children are getting bigger and uncertainty continues. I therefore believe that the weight of time is considerable and I would like to hear the Secretary of State on this in detail. Mr. Chairman. The second point is the Tax Administration, which carries it out. I think we all understand, like the Secretary of State, that for the most part the people involved no longer have any confidence in the Tax Office. That's no wonder either, because the Secretary of State himself filed a complaint against a number of... I would like to say to 'a number of officials', but that must be 'against civil servants'. There has been institutional bias. There may have been ethnic profiled. People are all over the place. Why exactly is this service going to fix that, with flowcharts that are meant for us, when parents really have the intention not to do so? Why hasn't another body been chosen, to which parents can give their trust? I think that parents would much rather report to another government body or to an independent supervisory body than to the Tax Office itself. Why was that chosen? I ask this because we hear it so often. We heard it again in the hearing. Actually, there was no trust in the IRS anymore. I'll understand that when you get another letter like that. But you do depend on those people who wrote that letter, or their colleagues. Why wasn't that chosen? Mr. Chairman. My third point concerns not so much the law, but the fact that it takes far too long for it to be clarified about ethnic profiling. This has already been mentioned by several colleagues. I myself asked Question Time about three or four months ago: when will that happen? I don't know exactly how long it's been; maybe it was even under the previous Secretary of State. And I asked, "When is that gonna happen? Make a call to the Personal Data Authority!" Because you can't let such a serious subject be a subject of investigation for so long without giving you any clarity as to exactly what's going on there? In her reply, the Secretary of State states that they are independent and, of course, they are, but there could be a result of that investigation. This cannot last a year and a half over the market for two years, can it? So I would like to know from the Secretary of State when that will finally be clarified. Finally, Mr President. The PvdA Group understands that something has to be done. Yes, Mr. Ommzigt, we all do. But you must be convinced that what is being proposed really offers a solution for the parents. I think that is a difficult choice to make, because compensation legislation is, of course, needed. Something has to be done and there are elements that we really support, but at the same time it is being rigged up with so many procedures and with so many appeals and safety net arrangements, that I am afraid that people are getting lost in them again, that it is taking a long time and that it is only the question of whether everyone is actually being done justice. We are therefore making our assessment of this law really dependent on the debate and on the amendments that have been adopted and any motions for resolutions. On this basis, we will decide whether this will receive the support of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u144	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now turn to Mr Omtzigt of the CDA. Mr. Azarkan, I saw you. What were you thinking? Everyone's starting to take a nap, so I'm gonna wake them up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u145	No, Mr. Chairman, I'd like to make a personal statement. Mr Omtzigt has called me a liar. This has become known on the media and is now in De Telegraaf. We know that newspaper. "The T. is the T." as Minister Grapperhaus, the Secretary of State's colleague, indicated. That was meant and substantiated by the fact that... Mr. Omtzigt said my party made videos of Mr. Amhaouch and Mrs. Yeşilgöz-Zegerius in 2019. I indicated at the time that it wasn't. Then he said, "You're a liar." I would ask Mr Omtzigt to withdraw that. And why is that? I have often been questioned here about what my colleagues have done, Mr President, and may I say so. Colleagues do that, and I'm not running away from it. I've been questioned here about what Erdogan is doing and Kemal Atatürk. It may also be about Gengis Khan. I don't mind. But what I really don't accept is that I'm being called liar on the basis of incorrect information. I am extremely sorry about that. I'm not gonna let you make me look like a liar. And why not? Mr Omtzigt enjoys a great deal of respect in the country. It's one of the best MPs. He has a PhD in economics and statistics and a PhD in econometrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u146	Oh, I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u147	Well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u148	Sure. Finally, Mr. Chairman. It is okay, because we have of course seen that Mr Omtzigt can also go astray. In 2017, he had a fake witness cast doubt on MH17. He came back to that neatly. I would ask him to confirm that a film was made by Mr Amhaouch in 2017 or ask him to withdraw the word "lieger."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr. Chairman. It was clear again. I said he wasn't telling the truth when he said those videos were in the Chamber before the entrance of DENK in 2016. At that point I said: that is not true. That's what he kept saying, and I'm sticking with that. Whoever MPs were in it, I can check it out for you. But you used the wrong years, even when I repeated it. It was Mrs Karabulut and Mr Zihni Özdil.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u150	Look, look, there he gets help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u151	Yeah, I'll get it. That's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u152	Mr. Chairman. This isn't true. I just looked it back. I think my integrity by Mr...It's 2016, I have it here. That's before DENK existed. That of Mr Amhaouch dates from 2016. For someone who has been promoted in statistics and who boasts that he knows all the files up to comma, he wasn't wrong for a year, not two, not three, but almost four years. Perhaps it is falsely prepared because he apparently has something against me, but I do not accept Mr Omtzigt calling me a liar based on his lies because he was just wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u153	All right, you've made your point. Then I'll go to Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u154	Mr President, this is a personal fact. It amazes me very much that a party that has made several videos that have led to threats from MPs and on which a motion has also been passed on this is extremely exceptional............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Those videos are clear. They were at A-haber's. They were about Karabulut, they were about Özdil. I hadn't prepared this. This came from my toes, Mr. Azarkan. And it wasn't 2016 that that riot was. That riot was right before the elections in 2019 here. Those were videos about the Armenian genocide, the Armenian issue if you like, and one of your group members said that Members of Parliament should be judged on what they thought of it. Mr President, these videos are made. I also tweeted the article from my favorite newspaper, the NRC, to show that they existed. So really, Mr. Chairman. You also knew they existed. It's interesting to see that we're looking for a little thing here, but you made those videos here with your party. Thank you for pointing that out again. 'Cause those movies exist. Not once, not twice, but several times here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u155	Well, then I'd like to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u156	It was a personal matter, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u157	You will have the floor in a moment, Mr. Azarkan. But enough has been said about it, back and forth, so I really want to move on to the subject we are working on tonight. Then you must not provoke Mr Omtzigt again, because then he will have the floor. Yes, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mr President, Mr Omtzigt refers to elections in 2019. There weren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u159	2018, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u160	Mr President, we really need to speak on the basis of facts. He's someone who's been promoted in econometrics and statistics and who prides himself on knowing all the files. Mr President, he's just a year off. It just can't be. With regard to the films that have been made, I think I have just told Mr Nijboer that it was not good, that I spoke to colleagues and that it will not happen again. Next comes Mr Omtzigt, who says: videos have been made about my colleague Amhaouch and videos have been made about Mrs Yeşilgöz. You didn't use any other words. You're twisting the truth. So did you in 2017. When he calls that a trifle, he does not do justice to the importance that citizens in the country have when they see that MPs communicate with each other on the basis of facts. You may address me on anything, on the behaviour of my colleagues and on the behaviour of my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u161	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u162	What I don't accept is that I'm being addressed on the basis of facts that don't add up. Mr Omtzigt was wrong for three and a half years. That was before DENK existed. He can appeal to me on that, too. But now it's a bit of a wave away and pretending it's something everyone knows isn't the deal. That is simply not acceptable!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u163	If there are nails on low tide, I could say that you are completely wrong about the facts, because I was interrupting and then Mr Nijboer. But I don't, because they're games. For we all know that was not the essence of what it was about if I had the first interruption and then Mr Nijboer. And that is exactly what Mr Azarkan is doing here. Exactly! He looks if there's a year somewhere that's not right, then thinks it's wrong and thinks that I should have all the videos of DENK in a row. But what's happening here is, when I asked, there was no follow-up at all. That followed after Mr Nijboer said something about why you shouldn't make those videos. One rule for yourself, one rule for others; I find that quite shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u164	I think this debate should go back to what it is about tonight, but when it comes to making personal facts, I also know one. I got the answer from Mr Azarkan that they have not made those videos since the elections when they were made, indeed from my colleague Karabulut, from Mr Zihni Özdil and many, and also after the elections. Let's stop this right now. It happened and it would be good if DENK would say: we're not going to do it anymore. That's what it was all about. That's what it started, but now we really need to talk about the supplementing affair again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u165	I think that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u166	I would also like to say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u167	Not about Mr Omtzigt! Okay. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u168	Oh, I'm gonna stand somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u169	Mr President, I answered because Mr Henk Nijboer gave me a correct question with the right facts. I'm not running away from that. I answered that. What I don't accept, Mr President, once again, is that I'm being called a liar in public. I really think that's too much. I note that Mr Omtzigt does not want to take that back and stick to his point. I'm allowed to, but I think it's indecent and I don't think it's acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u170	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u171	Well, I found it interesting to hear that Mr Azarkan promised not to talk about me two seconds ago and yet I think I heard something, but it will be up to me. I think Mr Azarkan should look back on his films and start with ethnic profiling. Because it went wrong exactly the same way. Maybe it wasn't meant to be wrong, but the impact was huge. That is what also happens to some of our compatriots in this affair. In 2017 I asked questions about this for the first time. I asked the question: are there any parents, childcare institutions, host parents and mediation agencies who have suffered undue damage from abrupt termination and recovery of the childcare allowance in 2014? The answer from the then Secretary of State was: there was no evidence of that. The government didn't know what was going on. Blowing! By asking ten parliamentary questions with several colleagues here, we discovered piece by piece that small people, young families, had a financial necklock from the government, from the Tax Administration. They couldn't go anywhere for years. At the same time, there was the denial. This dossier is at the heart of the rule of law. At the heart of the rule of law is that someone who is less important, including someone who has less money, has a fair chance against the government. They haven't had it until today. I'll read you some texts from these people. People say they lost their children, their son and daughter. They're appalled because they were so financially destroyed that they couldn't take care of their children anymore. These people couldn't see their children and lost their jobs. And I've got plenty of apps here, just today, about people who can't feed their kids. That is the impact of what has happened in this affair of the childcare allowance. I have not seen any greater shame in the rule of law in recent years, even though there is one Mr Nijboer mentioned, which came close. So it is also important that today there is recognition for the struggle of those people, because if they had not fought that battle and had not continued to harass us with something we did not believe at the beginning, including myself, we would not have had a debate here today. That debate is not because of a Member of Parliament and not even because of a few journalists who have done a very good job, but because of a number of parents who have not given up and who have said: this cannot be done under the rule of law. I think that's good, because if you don't know every day if you can still get food at the end of the day while you're working 60 hours a week to pay off your debt, you're gonna make a buck. I hope that the Secretary of State and the current staff of the Tax Office realize this every day as we do. It is important that we take a step today not only to hope that a very small amount of their trust will return to the rule of law, but also to see how this can be done properly and effectively. I myself am glad that we are doing a deadline today and next week, even after the remark I made here two weeks ago, namely that we need to put a little extra time and effort into important legislation, and this is important legislation. This is certainly the case in terms of speaking time and the amendments that have been tabled. Because we only have one time to get this right; let's just be honest about it. My first question to the Secretary of State is an overlapping question. You could wait until we get all the scandals on the table and then make a law, but then I know we'd wait another year with this law. Because we know there's gonna be another report from the Personal Data Authority and we know there's gonna be another piece on lost files. All these things may lead to minor changes. Is the Secretary of State prepared, if there is reason to do so, to make those arrangements and those AMvBs... They are difficult on the one hand because colleagues rightly say that we might have wanted to see it better, but they also give a degree of flexibility on the other hand to adapt it if there is anything. I believe that a quarterly progress report has now been promised. Is she willing to see if there are any holes? Because I assure you that there will be difficult cases and remain. Those are flesh and blood people, and those people deserve an honest solution. That is why I myself am very pleased with the safety net clause. That doesn't sound very nice, but it is flexible enough to do something about these harrowing situations. And can the word "very" for "shrinking" be removed from the legal text? That's not a legal detail. "Wrinkling" is enough in these cases, as far as I'm concerned. Mr. Chairman. The second thing I ask is generosity in the execution. I didn't count the words, but "emptiness" is often found in the answers. That's not an empty promise from this Secretary of State. We saw that at the CAF 11-handling. At least it was done quickly. I'll have some more questions about CAF 11. But we'll take a good look at that generosity. The second important thing is implementation. I have therefore also tabled an amendment to have all these arrangements put in place in just Dutch. I'll be on the language in a minute; that's not free. This means that the Chamber wants to see all these AMvBs and ministerial arrangements here before they are adopted. If they're not good, she can ask for changes. It's a so-called shocking veil. And what the CDA will test very closely is the feasibility of those arrangements. Are they enforceable for the Tax Office and are they enforceable for the parents? You can say: why the IRS? Parents will suffer greatly if they are not enforceable. Mr President, at your request, I would like to leave a number of points which have also been raised by others, as you asked me. For example, the question is whether someone who has been rejected can be automatically taken into account and not re-apply. Let me start with that problem right away. Last week's letters weren't the way we wanted to start this. A decision was published on 26 May and 10,200 letters were sent on 28 May. I would like to know how this committee of wise men has operated. Because one of the things that stood out is that it happened really fast. I'll get back to my second change of what I want in this law. It is a crucial decision which of the CAF cases are comparable to CAF 11 and therefore offer a more generous concession than other schemes in this law. And I am asking for the list of decisions of the Committee of Wise Men, because I just want to have a look at how that happened. There are highly qualified lawyers on the committee and I hope they have looked closely at all the dossiers. And can the other 8,000 parents, who are therefore outside this somewhat faster scheme, object? Is this an objectionable decision? Remember, these people were not allowed to object at an earlier stage. But is this an objectionable decision? Can they say: I would like to have a re-evaluation based on the whole file if it is clear that it is not happening or if my CAF case is similar? And can they see the investigation file? Because now it's on the back: can you show why the investigation into you met those five rules? If you don't have the research file, it's gonna be kind of hard to do. Parents of course do not have standard access to it. Mr. Chairman. The second point concerns the Council of State. I have two points on that. The first point is that I would like an explanation from the government as to how the second part of the law came about. The first was about the CAF cases, which we have talked about very often here, and the second had a little less attention: the hardness of the scheme. GroenLinks has always brought that up. In the history of law, I have not been able to find out exactly how this hardness was created. I'm saying that with some hesitation. Is that hardness there because it was in the law or is that hardness there because the Tax Administration carried it out at some point and was later codified in the Council of State rulings that this was allowed? Those are two different options. I would like to know how that was done, also to learn from it. For the second point, I agree with Mrs Lodders. I will not often criticize the Council of State, but the opinion of the Council of State on this law was not substantive. I hope that the Council of State will also want to reflect somewhat. I do not want to ask the government to reflect on the Council of State, because then you will get the High College of State. Here I am simply saying in the debate: Council of State, with such important laws, we appreciate your expertise in whether this is feasible and enforceable and in all the important legal questions that come with laws and for which we have a Council of State. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll move on to that law. We first had the theme of the CAF parents, then the theme of the hardness of the scheme and then you have the safety net clause. I would like to hear about this safety net clause, which can be combined with the hardness of the scheme. Therefore, due to the hardness of the scheme, you have to repay an amount. If you have that amount, say a few thousand euros, on your bank, it's all painful and annoying but then you can get on with your life, if you know what I mean. If you don't have that amount on the bank and you end up in debt, then you have the real problem I was talking about earlier. That first group of parents does not require any hardness of the scheme; let that be absolutely clear. The amount will be repaid and that will be it. For that second group of parents, there should be no anti-cumulative. Can they use the hardness of the safety net? Two. There is now a time limit for the Tax Administration to extend six months and this period may also be extended by six months before the hardness of the scheme is granted. This is also in line with Mr Snels' amendment. The water is on the lips of these parents. Is there anything possible to have other assessments followed when a dossier has already had one assessment? You have put together the whole file once; I can imagine that it will take some time and that in that organisation of yours it will not be possible to do everything at the same time. But if there is one time, can it just go through the system until a solution is found and parents don't have to wait a year before going from one solution to another? The safety net provision, partly due to the questions put by SP and CDA, now also, after the letter of amendment, provides for a set-up/greater debt settlement. A set-up/greater debt settlement for people who have been wrongly identified as fraud. Excuse me? In addition, you have to show some harrowingness. Can the government explain why the simple fact that you are wrongly reported as a fraud is not sufficient for the safety net provision? Of course, there may be a variation in the damage that occurs, but even if you could repay it at once... Suppose for €2,000 it was determined that you had intent/greater debt, because the limit was €1,500. If you could pay that back within 24 months, you don't have to go through the ice financially, for people who can, but you'll get a note. And as a fraud, you get harder on a mortgage, rent houses can be refused, you can be denied a job at the municipality. Those may be much heavier things that can occur in a lifetime. How is this taken into account in this dossier? Mr. Chairman. Then the files. I would like the unequivocal recognition that parents get their files and that there is no pressure whatsoever on the 660 parents who asked for their files to withdraw that application in order to arrive at an assessment. A lot of these parents are getting a phone call right now: if you drop that file request, we're gonna handle it faster. And that's not one. I'm sorry. I can show them to you. This question is repeatedly asked. That's not fair to these parents. If you have that financial neck clamp, you're stuck. And if you say then: you can be out of trouble a year earlier if you don't see the file... These people are entitled to that file if they want to see it. That file is the whole file. Decisions shall be taken on the basis of the investigation file or individual file. So if you want to see if anything happened to the childcare allowance, you don't have to look at what happened to the rent allowance in other years. I have seen that a great many committees have been set up, but none of these committees has been given a basis in the law before them. They are in the explanatory memorandum, but they have no legal basis. First of all, in my amendment, I have ensured that they are legally secured, that they must have a legal institutional decision under this law. Two: if the Tax Administration takes a decision and I agree with many who have asked here whether the Tax Administration is the organization most trusted by these parents, and we know the answer, then the Tax Administration always has to take a decision on the basis of the entire file with the documents relating to the case. That is to say: all the calls that have been made, all the documents that are present, possibly even FSV............................................................................................................................................................................................ I believe that the older person has the right to see the decision of the Tax Administration, the decision of the committee to find something about it and the documents relating to the case. This guarantees the process and ensures transparency towards the parents. That may sound very bureaucratic, but the parents will understand this. Because if they see what documents are under the decision, they can easily object and understand why a particular decision has been taken or not. There is also the fact that, if the Tax Administration departs from the Committee, the Secretary of State promises more or less that this will not occur to the detriment of the parents. Then the FSV systems. We don't have to talk about that today, because there's going to be an investigation. That investigation will be done on Monday. Can we have that investigation in the Chamber on Monday or Tuesday? That's a deadline on the assignment. On 26 May 2020, all managements had to indicate if there were more applications like FSV. That was in the annex to the assignment. Has the IRS found more of these applications, so I would like to ask the Secretary of State, and if so, how many were there? Can we get an idea of that? These are all loose points, Mr President, but they are extremely important for the legal process. I made the proposal here last time that laws should be dealt with in committees. Then you can walk through each of the articles and see if the article does what you want. But now I'm just gonna ask these questions. Mr. Chairman. In the safety net clause, which will also be used for people who are deliberately/grown in debt but what is wrong, people still have to pay 24 months and then the debt is put out of recovery. Does that mean they'll never recover again? Or can there be another surprise and then there can be a seizure? I agree with Mrs Leijten's question about parents under control. Would you like to work out a regulation very carefully with the parents so that the whole regime does not disappear at once and these people are not yet out of trouble? In the committees that have been set up, we see eminent lawyers and also human rights lawyers. Would the government consider adding two people per committee who have as their background damage and debt relief so that not only the legal size is in it, but also the measure of 'how it can be'? As far as we are concerned, the parents do not need to be asked to provide documents. So I would like to know what Mr Snels is being asked for. In the CAF cases, you have a lump sum compensation. For a lot of parents, that's gonna be covert. In my opinion, in the CAF 11 case, 80 parents said that they have higher damage and that they would like to see the real damage compensated. I wonder if the Secretary of State can give an insight into the context on which that real damage is based. And is there any specific way in the specific CAF 11 case to ensure that those 80 parents do not have to object to the decision that they have had compensation................................................................................................................................................... Try to come up with something for that, otherwise there will be another 80 objections that are all fairly pro forma. Then I'll come to the ongoing investigations. One of the ongoing investigations is about documents. The Erfgoed Inspection is currently investigating whether the childcare allowance until 2013 has had a good policy on archiving. I would ask you to allow the Heritage Inspectorate to extend that investigation on three points. First of all, I would like to ask you to go back to the childcare allowance in 2006, because this dossier will also discuss compensation for the years 2007-2008 and the hardness regime. There's got to be a file on that. We know that a new computer system has been set up at the end of 2011 at Supplements. We have some doubts about the availability of the data in the old computer system until 2011. Moreover, the selection lists, which the Tax Administration itself has legally drawn up, say that until 12 years after the end of a supplement, the documents must be retained. I think it would make sense to take a closer look at this and immediately ask if those files are complete or not, so that we do not have to do another investigation later to see if that is true. Two. I think so, but I would like confirmation from them that they are also investigating the reports of the MT of the minister's staff and other things that have not been found. Is it true that that was turned off at the Erfgoed Inspection and when do we hear the results of that? Can it be examined once if pieces ever disappear in the mailroom? We have a lot of questions about this, not only in the case of bonuses, but also from SMEs. Pieces aren't properly archived there. So far, I've been talking about archiving the Tax Administration. You're making a decision and you're making the decisions. But there's also something like documents entering a scan street. Many parents, many SMEs and many individuals tell me by e-mail that these pieces have been lost every time, while they have been sent three times. Mr. Chairman. I'm making a small confession about myself, besides the confession that I'm saying that for the fact-checkers here, I've never been a doctorandus. I'm gonna have to correct that. I had to report a data breach myself this week, because one of the files I sent through had to be done physically, because it was so big that it couldn't get to the Tax Office via computer... has never arrived at the Tax Office's mailroom. So I'm starting to get some sense of what's going on here. I'm coming to the Personal Data Authority. You know my unrest. I've never had patience, so I'm a little out of patience anyway. Yesterday's letter said that further questions had been asked. What further questions have been asked? And has a report of initial findings ever become available? Because usually there's a report of findings somewhere that you can respond to. So do we have any idea if there are any findings that go in the direction of what Mr Azarkan would call "ethnic profiling"? I find it special to get an impression of that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a point about language. That's a problem I'd like to come back to with the IRS another time. The letter didn't excell in clarity. In any case, I would like to see the Tax Administration in England doing the same; there is a campaign for clear English.. if those letters simply contain plain Dutch language, just at maximum B1 level. It has to be legally correct, because you have to know how to object, but it has to be understandable at B1 level. So those letters should just be readable and do what they're for. I would also like to ask for a summary of this law: at that level. You see very little eyes with me. They have to do with the 36 hours that were between the piece on the one hand and the understanding of it on the other, communicating with parents, communicating with lawyers and standing here, without written text. If I have any difficulty understanding a law, and I have been doing it professionally for 17 years, it may be that not every parent immediately understands this law. I'd appreciate it if there would be a public summary of two or three sides about how this is arranged, at that level. That's not easy with this law, but it would help parents to know exactly where they are. Mr. Chairman. Then we have the case 1043 and the CAF-ib cases. Is that being investigated at the moment and is we going to get a ruling on this? The CAF cases weren't just about surcharges, we've always talked about surcharges, but they probably went a lot further. Mr Niessen's investigation has already been requested. I'd love to see that. I've got some leftover questions. If someone gets a fee, they get an extra 1% to absorb effects in box 3. Now that's fine for the box 3 load. That can be 1.2% one time if you have a lot and 0.7% if you have less, but that's loose. But if you have to repay your entire rent payment for a year by paying a concession in one go, then you're in good shape. Now the First Chamber has arranged for this law to be used for something else, namely for parents who receive a post-payment of the child-related budget, in order to ensure that if those persons cross that threshold and receive a whole supplement at once, it does not apply. If the same should not apply to the people sitting here, I would ask the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. There will also be people who will not be compensated for a number of years. Can I assume that if there is any follow-up damage, which will not then be split because it will be an administrative tragedy, but that the follow-up damage, which may come into the safety net, will be taken into account in its entirety? I would also like to have a good estimate of the cost of this because we do not know exactly how it is going to be done and a kind of timetable in which it is going to take place. I think Mr. Nijboer is high and the Secretary of State is even higher, but September 1st is not going to be him. I would like to call that as an opposition member, but let's just be honest about what can happen. September 1st cannot. But I'd be happy for us, and especially for those parents, to have an idea of when we're about to do something. That also gives these people certainty. If it turns out that there are questions from the Chamber about his "Can't you stop recovery there?" Or "Can you do this differently?" We will then be able to ask these questions. Mr. Chairman. Those were my questions about perhaps the most important, but at least the first law of this Secretary of State. There have been times when less important laws have been dealt with first by a Secretary of State. I hope that law will also contribute to a little restoration of trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ommzigt. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't make it any easier for you. Mr. Chairman. After many debates about the nightmare in which innocent people have ended up because of the Tax Office and in which they have been branded as fraud by institutional bias, this emergency law should compensate for the damage caused, as much as possible. But nothing could be further from the truth. The Secretary of State finally leaves the majority of the 20,000 injured empty-handed with this law. Their lives are shattered, as are those of their families, of their children, whose lives have yet to begin and who are immediately lagging behind, with trauma. The compensation for this is difficult to calculate. But has the Secretary of State taken into account the Ombudsman's sixteen rules of the game for compensation in its legislation? How generous is this arrangement when we see that in 2017 the service should have acted generously towards the victims, but failed to do so? Mr. Chairman. The injured parents are threatened by this emergency law to end up in bureaucratic quicksand. Although the Donner Committee has drawn conclusions on institutional bias, parents are re-divided into different categories in the report. Deception/greater debt was not investigated and files were not reviewed. Do people ever get off the label? Next, this categorization has been incorporated into this emergency law and many mundane parents will find no satisfaction, no restoration of honour and no generous compensation for intent/great debt. And the Donner Committee has apparently been even more generous in its reservations than the Tax Administration now. Other speakers already mentioned the Tonga project, a project which the Committee even considered comparable, unlike the Tax Administration. In particular, questions have already been asked about this by the SP. I would like to join in that. Mr. Chairman. The compensation must really be arranged, not at the end of the journey by a committee, but at the beginning of the process, by providing compensation at the beginning of the process, and then looking together to see whether it needs to be supplemented. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to see a number of other points clarified. The Tax Administration itself, and not at file level, assesses whether there has been biased action and therefore whether compensation can be claimed. The Tax Administration itself must filter out its own mistakes and assess its own bias. Could it be any crazier? My question is to the Secretary of State. The Tax Administration has not previously been able to carry out this assessment properly. Why does the Secretary of State believe that this is a reliable place to act? I shall now explain why I am asking these questions. The Secretary of State says he wants to work hard on a cultural change within the Tax Administration. A cultural research has even been launched, the results of which are now known. The Secretary of State must now shape this and will take the results into account. Her predecessor Menno Snel also said in the debate of 5 September 2019 that this change in culture is necessary, and I quote from the minutes, "that those who have been involved in this CAF 11 case are not involved in solving the problems." It then undertook, at the request of the SP, that those involved in this CAF 11 case will not be involved in resolving the problems, namely the assessment of the injury and its handling. And that commitment was valid from the moment of the commitment, i.e. from 5 September 2019. And what is our surprise? What do we now read in the answers given by the current Secretary of State in the note on the report we received? However, there are people involved in the assessment of the damage and its handling, who were previously involved in the institutional bias which caused these parents to fall into hell. I can't read it any other way. They have now carried out support work. What kind of work exactly? And they even contacted the parents by phone! To talk about what? To say I'm sorry? To turn them down again? How does the Secretary of State explain this and how is it in relation to the desired cultural change in the Tax Administration that these parents are once again exposed to people with a lack of standard awareness, as I will just mention? Have these involved within the organisation perhaps even grown or reached higher positions, even though they have abused their powers during the CAF period and ruined people's lives? For example, do these employees still work in the complaint and appeal department, I ask the Secretary of State. Are they technical coordinators, vacos? Those are the people who are going to apply this law, people who have held back pieces and pulled parents' evidence through the shredder. I'd like to hear this from the Secretary of State. Is it or isn't it? And if so, what will the Secretary of State do about it? How is she gonna protect the duped parents from them? Does the Secretary of State have an exact understanding of these functions and of the employees who have remained in the Tax Office, now it is clear that these people are still close to the fire? How can the Secretary of State put the implementation of the law in the hands of these people, even though they are now at another agency? Is that credible? There's a good chance it's gonna go wrong. You can still have such a beautiful law, if its implementation is not reliable we fall back into the past, in which ultimately the law has been acted in violation. One day, too, asked questions about this, and I was told that the answers would come today. But this has not happened and I am allowed to ask these questions here in this debate. In addition, EenVandaag also called for attention to be paid to the mission of the recovery operation. Mr. Chairman. The questions. Following the State Secretary's commitment, has it been identified which employees are not eligible to participate in the assessment and handling of cases, because these employees have been concerned with faulty practices in the CAF? Is it known how many employees this is about? Since mid-2018 have one or more assignments been given to the management of the surcharges and are they present as a document? If so, can we see these assignments or assignments? Is this operation on schedule? If not, how many months has the recovery operation been delayed? For what reasons has recovery been delayed? Have any discussions been held with the Board of Charges on this matter? Have any reports been made of these conversations? Are former employees from the CAF-time still working in the complaints department? If so, how many employees? Are former employees from the CAF-time still working on the appeal department? And if so, how many employees? Are former employees of the CAF-time still employed in the Department of Supplements? And if so, how many employees? Are former employees of the CAF-time still working in the Objection Department? And if so, how many employees? If former employees are no longer employed within the recovery operation department, have they been transferred to other posts? And if so, how many employees are they and which departments? Where did they go? Those were Oneday's questions. Mr. Chairman. It is also not reasonable to expect, after an assessment by the Tax Administration and the agreement by a committee at the more superior level of individual parents, that they provide evidence against the negative outcome of the assessment. Parents, with a few exceptions, do not have their own files and therefore, in many cases, cannot defend the substance of the case. Parents who have received a letter from the Tax Administration do not read any justification on the basis of which the Tax Administration has assessed that in their case, for example, there has been no institutional bias and there is no right to compensation. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this once again seriously harms parents in their interests and that this is particularly painful, because after all the blows they have received, the parents are a vulnerable group that is being beaten up? They will not be able to experience this again. All the solid ground is then put away again under their feet. Is it not too crazy to say, on the one hand, that the regulation deserves a solid legal basis and, on the other hand, to anticipate the regulation we are discussing here today in the Chamber, by already sending negative letters to parents? What is the legal status of these letters? Why is there no objection clause? Have there been any objections? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. Why is the Tax Administration not removed from the trial as a determining factor and instead is the Court of Human Rights asked for a ruling at file level? Is it also conceivable that the same flat-rate compensation as in the CAF 11 cases should be decided for cases that are comparable or possibly comparable? Then there will be no more discussion at file level and at most there will be discussion about the extent of the damage suffered. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. As far as the compensation scheme itself is concerned, it is important to mention that it is not generous enough. We are now talking about undercompensation. In order to obtain compensation for their actual damage, parents should take a further procedural step. The starting point is then a wider compensation through the default. This does more justice to the principle that the actual damage is compensated. More procedurally, it is also apparent in this context that the documents, for example in CAF 11, have already been submitted early for the compensation decisions in support of this damage. But these documents were not looked at, because there would be no possibility of doing so, because there was no legal provision yet. Why then anticipate this arrangement by rejecting requests from other parents, as I indicated earlier? Mr. Chairman. Could it be a solution to send the intention of the amount of payout to parents and, in the context of an option of view, to have the real harm of the parents substantiated? This may then be equally involved in the decision. The committee's time-consuming intermediate step in actual damage is then out. That bureaucratic intermediate step only sends parents into a new bureaucratic maze. These people deserve better treatment by now. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said by previous speakers about a safety net scheme. I also wonder why it is not there yet. I ask the Secretary of State to come up with a better law for all these duped parents and now to come up with a solid safety net, generous and just. Don't do that in six months' time, because that gives rise to legal uncertainty, and that is the last thing the Secretary of State should want to offer to parents. Give them a good legal position after all this misery. Give them the confidence that the same people who threw them into a dark pit may not take them out now, or, worst of all, leave them in it. Finally, Mr President. Many parents welcome my motion adopted unanimously by the Chamber, for which thanks, which calls on the government not only to involve Pierre Niessen's whistleblower reports in the supplementary external investigation, but also the other reports on the same officials, such as the lawyer of many parents, Eva González Pérez. Mr. Chairman. We continue to fight for justice for all duped parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u174	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I would like to suspend very briefly to discuss with all the spokesmen and the Secretary of State on how we proceed with this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u175	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would just like to say that we agreed before the debate that we would only do the first term on the part of the Chamber and the first term on the part of the government this evening, and the second time at another time. Since it is a matter of legal proceedings and Members of Parliament rightly have a great deal of speaking time, it has become a little late. We've just had a little discussion with each other during the suspension. We agreed to continue until 11:00. The Secretary of State explains a number of important issues from the first term and can then indicate how she will answer the other questions. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do a short intro. After that, I will deal with a number of issues. I cannot deal with all the questions from the first term and will shortly indicate how we can proceed with them. Mr. Chairman. We are talking today in the Chamber about a bill that is needed to correct an unfortunate 15-year legacy of childcare allowance. A period in which thousands of parents have fallen victim to a horrible out-of-control hunt for fraudsters and regulations that have been out-of-control for parents. I have heard and seen in recent months the misery caused by the child care allowance system. We all know the stories, too. It's not a legacy to be proud of. That is precisely why I am grateful to your Chamber for being able to deal with the Awir hardness adjustment bill, because this debate is an important step in the shared ambition of your Chamber and the Cabinet to deal with the past. Whether it is parents who have suffered from a derailed hunt for fraudsters or parents who have been crushed by strict enforcement of the rules, they all deserve a generous gesture. We want to lay the right foundation for a state law to treat equal cases equally. Hence also this law. It is important that your Chamber understands it in all its finesses. But for the affected parents, this law remains basically simple. We will look generously at the financial compensation they are entitled to. In my view, we do this in a unique way. We walk down the path to the beginning of the child care allowance. We compensate the financial consequences of errors that have been made on the way. And yes, how much time would it matter if we could solve all these problems with one general arrangement? But I can't reverse that 15-year childcare allowance in a few months, as much as I'd like to. As I said, I want to deal with this law with the past. That also means looking at the many thousands of parents who have suffered from the fraud hunt, who have suffered from the harsh regulations, with a broad view of the unjustified predicate of "deception/great debt." I want to ensure that there is a safety net for distressing situations. This law with the associated general measures of governance and the ministerial regulation allows us to do justice to all those parents. With a legal basis, the repair organisation will be able to make the first payouts in July. In the months that follow, we want to expand that all at a rapid pace. In doing so, we aim to help the parents most affected first. With the people of Supplements, I realize that the bill is an important step forward, but we are not there yet. My mission will only succeed if we are able to implement this law properly. Many of you have said something about this. This requires a genuine and honest approach with an eye for human standards. That is why the affected parents are given a personal business manager, who takes care of them and, together with the parents, looks at the arrangement that suits them best. I have set up three committees to assess whether the parents are getting the right remuneration. The committees are composed of women and men with different expertise and social involvement. The restoration of trust also requires that we inform parents about what they can expect from Supplements. We also receive advice on this from a parent panel, which is critical of whether we are helping everyone in a good and understandable way. Soon there will be a child panel, which looks from the look of the affected children. In recent times, a lot of people have worked very hard on this emergency law. We have seen that recovery is not easy. The importance of parents demands that we discuss this bill thoroughly and properly, but the objective is clear: a regulation that does justice to what happened to parents. In my next block I want to go into the parents. Many of you have spoken of this law. We are going to talk about it tonight and later, but of course the question is: how do all these different arrangements work for a parent? Actually, I want to make that as visual as possible for everyone. A parent who reports to us or a parent who is in contact with us starts working with us, together with his or her personal business manager. The parent tells him or her the story. What happened to me? What happened in all these years? What have I been through? Mrs Leijten referred to this. Together they reconstruct what happened, with all the relevant parts of the file on the table, what is available at the Tax Administration and what may still be available at the parent's. Then comes the assessment. We'll do it together. This is not the case-manager but someone with us who has been specifically trained to do so. We make this assessment as much as possible on one day for the different types of schemes. We would like to invite the parents to come together as soon as possible after the file has been compiled and their story is clear. In doing so, the business manager is to submit the assessment together with the parent to a technical colleague. We look at all the arrangements at the same time, so that the parent does not have to go through the arrangements one by one. We want to do everything at once. We are also, and above all, looking at the cohesion and we are, of course, heading for the most extensive regulation that the parent is entitled to. If the parent asks, because we reject the application of a wide-ranging regulation, then we will quickly submit that judgment to the Committee of Wise Men or the Committee of Supplementary Compensation, so that there is also a quick clarification. As far as I am concerned, the lead time should be as short as possible. In the end, of course, it is the Tax Administration that has to make a decision and not a committee. That is necessary, because then there is also the possibility of appeal and appeal. Even when this is the case, we will ensure that the objection advisory committee can proceed as soon as possible. That's actually what we want to do with the parents. So we want to move as quickly as possible on the way to the best arrangement for the parents and all of this as soon as possible and of course with the right people at the table to make sure that we can also make the right decision. I believe that this is also true of the point made by some of you about what the National Ombudsman sees for himself when it comes to regulations of this kind, namely trying to get out together. Then we must ensure that the best outcome for the parent comes out. This outcome is, of course, open to objections and appeals, but we can work quickly and efficiently, in which not only the file but also the story of the parent plays an important role. I wanted to move on to the next block, but well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u177	Thank you for the commitment to act quickly and swiftly. I would like to have an indication, possibly in writing, of what the maximum lead times will be. One of the reasons why we asked for this and why Mr Snels also tabled an amendment is that you still have to wait six months when you get to the safety net scheme. The tax authorities have six months to go, and they can postpone it for another six months. It is also an arrangement that you may not enter until you have applied for somewhere else. Can we perhaps have some kind of indicative maximum deadlines and some kind of planning that goes a little further and that is a little more concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u178	We can certainly look at that, because there will of course be time in making that file together. The personal business manager needs time to do this together with the parent and to request the documents. But then, as far as I am concerned, the decision-making process is a matter of getting through as quickly as possible. We are doing this, in particular, by dinting with all the parties that are needed to do so. But I'd be happy to try to provide you with some kind of indication of what's going on. If a parent could be eligible for the safety net provision, it must of course be there. But we can take all the other steps sooner. This applies to the people who can benefit from the compensation scheme or one of the other schemes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you for giving us this indication, because that indication may lead to further questions in the Chamber about people who have to wait longer than we would like, about what is happening in the meantime, about the recovery and about all kinds of other matters. Because they're dead now. I just want an indication of when they will be able to get there. You just said 'compose together' and I can imagine that we will be returning to who supplies which documents in a moment, because I think that is a task for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u180	It is. You mentioned the steps we're going to take. We'll make that clear to you, of course. We're definitely gonna work in the IRS to get the documents. We will, but we will also see what else the parent has in traffic. It is not so much about the points that we have, but about information that is relevant, for example, to compensation schemes and information on issues that are important for the safety net provision. We would like to deal with them as much as possible together with the parent and take them with us to ensure that you also mentioned in your contribution that one parent does not go from one scheme to another. We want to be able to make the best assessment for the parent in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u181	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u182	Does that file include the supplement tracking system? For example, all telephone calls are stored in the payment tracking system. If a parent has called 50 times to say "I sent that letter, I sent that letter and I sent those pieces" and those pieces haven't arrived, then those phone notes are a clearer indication that there is a postal item missing than when the parent would never have called at all. So will they be available for the assessment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u183	Yeah, as far as I'm concerned. All the information that matters for this case, so all the information that we have that matters and all the information that the parent has that matters, we need to bring together. But we're definitely going to look as best we can. And again, we're not gonna look at the last note. We have also mentioned this in the paper on the report. The point is, there's a plausible case. On that basis, we intend to assess. These kinds of notes can also play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u184	Creating a reconstruction together is already better than the Tax Administration doing it itself, but that is still with that Tax Administration. I have heard the VVD, the CDA, the PVV, myself, the Labour Party and the party of Mr Krol and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. They all say, "Does that really have to be the Tax Office?" I would like to know from the Secretary of State how she looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u185	I'm sure I'd like to take a look at that. I had this up ahead in my block, but the core of the story is that we've made a very separate organization. Mr Azarkan has also explained something about how this organisation works. That organization that is going to do the recovery, which is going to talk to the parents and start thinking along with the parents and do the assessment, consists of a very separate group of people who are working specifically for this purpose. They're part of the Tax Department. They come partly from other organizations. But they're all very motivated to solve this problem. Perhaps I should also make a link with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question: these are not people who have been involved in the CAF files. Those are not involved in the compilation of the files, which are not involved in the assessments and which will not be the personal case managers of the parents either. That is what we want to do. Of course, it is important that the Tax Administration, this particular recovery organisation, can show that they are going to do this in a good way. They have plenty of room for that when you look at the law and the opportunities they have to talk to parents. Of course, it is important that they also show that the Tax Administration, especially this organisation, can gain the trust of the parents. So this is the organization that needs to make sure that we not only implement it properly, but that it can also restore confidence. They're very aware of that. I'm very aware of that. As far as I am concerned, it is important for them to be able to get to work, of course on the basis of the law, on the basis of everything you have said about human size, generosity, personal assessments and ensuring that people are well accompanied to do this work. I think they can't do that alone; I know that they want to do that because they too want to put it right, to do the right thing and to win back the trust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u186	I am very much aware that there are a lot of people working within the Tax Administration who would like to see this restoration of trust and would like to participate in it. But as you just said, the perspective of these parents is: we're gonna sit together and reconstruct together, but the IRS is making a decision. Can that decision happen when they're sitting around the table? Could it be that they say we've seen sister, so shall we make the decision in this way? Then it will not be another legal document that comes with the mail, that people have to wait for, and then they will nervously open that letter. There are plenty of people who can't do that at all. Is it also possible that that decision is simply taken in the conversation about the reconstruction, which everyone says: we are satisfied with and that's how we're going to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u187	It is my intention to do so. I hope that it can be done as much as possible at that time, because that will not only allow us to make a quick decision, but also that the parent is involved and can do his or her story again. Then it is not just paper that speaks, but also the actual situation of the parents. So where we can do that, I want to do it as much as possible. Of course, it may be that we still need help or that things still have to be sorted out, but that is my aim: to get the parties to the table as soon as possible to make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u188	Partly in addition to what Mrs Leijten asked: who is guarding that human size? In December, we saw people getting black-painted files. Afterwards, everyone says, "That's not very human." People get a decision that they sometimes find very difficult to read and that they find very distant. So, for the record, who on the team is guarding the human size? Is there some kind of head human size? Is there an account manager for it or whatever it's called? How do you take that into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u189	Of course, everyone is going to work with it and work with it, but we have not for nothing that parent panel that is going to think with us, and that is not just about what kind of letters we should send, whether we should send a letter or have a phone call or something else. It also looks at its content, at the content of the letters and at the content of the communication. What I think is extremely important is that we talk a great deal about it. That is also the commitment of our administrative advisory committee, along with us on how we can do this well. For it is evident that letters have been sent, even recently, which simply do not give the message that it should be and that of course does not help. That's not good, and we shouldn't do that anymore. We have to send letters that people understand, if it's already a letter. Sometimes a phone call is better and sometimes a live conversation is better, if that can be given again later on the corona measures. I think it is very important that we should be properly guided by what others say from outside, because there is, of course, a need for equal treatment. It must also be legally and legally correct. That is all true, but it must also be understandable to the parent. The parent must be able to follow why a particular decision is taken and, of course, must also be able, if he or she does not agree with it, to oppose it in an easy way, without having to go to court first, etcetera, etcetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u190	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, then Mr Snels and then Mr Omtzigt again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u191	I really hear the Secretary of State say quite clearly: "Absolutely no employees who have had anything to do with that wrong period in the CAF case, who had institutional bias, who have put people away as fraudsters, who have ruined lives and withheld things from files. They are not part of the solution and they are not again conclaved with the parents about the solution in their case." But that's not right. I really want to ask the Secretary of State if she's really sure about this. Of course, I'm not just asking for this. One day doesn't just ask. What is the consequence if it comes to light that it is? Because you have already written it, I say through the President, in the note on the report. There the Secretary of State already writes that former employees from that period have carried out support work and even had telephone contact with parents. In fact, I hear that parents have a contact person who first worked in the department of objection. So now he's a contact for those parents. I really want to ask the Secretary of State, and I'm not just asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u192	All right, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u193	... if she wants to think very carefully about what she's saying now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u194	I keep trying to think about what I'm saying, but the essence of the story is that what I wrote in the note is true. There are people who at the beginning of the period helped in different ways to set up the organisation. When it comes to the personal business managers, so the people who are in contact and who are going to compile files together with the parents, and when it comes to those who are going to make the decisions, I do not think they should be those who are also involved in the CAF files. I'm gonna make sure that doesn't happen. I know that, in the past, people from the CAF period, so to speak, have been in contact with parents. That's what I wrote in that note. I have also indicated that I do not want that to happen anymore, and that will not happen again. I will also make sure that this does not happen again, because I am committed to providing parents with a contact person that they can work with, on whom they can rely. I also think it is particularly important that the decisions taken on the basis of all the information collected should be taken by people who have not been involved before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u195	I like that the Secretary of State says that and she's going to commit herself to that and she's going to make sure that doesn't happen anymore, but it's happening right now. That's a fact. Of course, I'm not going to name names, but it happens. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to answer all the questions that EenVandaag has asked in writing, question for question. I very much agree with the questions and I am very curious about the answers to them. I really want the workers with a lack of standard awareness to whom these parents are exposed, who have run through those parents during that period and who are now given the opportunity to judge them again, to really leave there. I want the Secretary of State to promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u196	Well, leaving is another word. There are a lot of people at the regular supplement organisation who have been doing a very good job there for years. Those are the people who just go to work. When it comes to the recovery operation, to correct what went wrong, I will do what I have said, namely to make sure that people who are in contact with the parents, who are doing the assessments, are not the ones who have been involved in the CAF cases in the past or who have otherwise worked in those files. I would like to make a commitment to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u197	Good. I see Mr Snels and Mr Omtzigt at the interrupting microphone. We have just agreed that the Secretary of State will reply first and that should be interrupted briefly, but I notice that the interruptions are incredibly long. That's not the point. It's really annoying to cut you off in the middle of an interruption, but I'm gonna do that. Then I look at the Secretary of State, because she has just begun a general introduction. You were going to discuss a number of issues. Maybe you could name it. Then the MPs will know a little about what they're up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u198	In this block, "how's it gonna work for the parents?" I just wanted to say a little bit about the letters that have been sent so far. I would like to say a few words and answer a few questions about the laws, organisation, cooperation with you and intent/great debt. And I'd like to finish with how we're gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u199	Yes. Mr. Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u200	I would like to go further on Mrs Leijten's question as to what is going on for parents. The Secretary of State outlined the Ombudsman's almost ideal picture: to sit at the table together and at the same time look behind the scenes to see what kind of regulation is now in place. That's what I'd like to do, but in my head it's hard to figure out how the ideal picture rhymes with the legal picture. As an example... That is, of course, in several documents, in yesterday's letter, which simply tried to explain to us how it works, but then it says on page 6: "If there is no prejudice at individual level or there is no serious irregularity, then the application for compensation is rejected with a formal decision, and then there may be an objection and appeal." That's exactly the question. Should there be a formal decision at that time? How does that work when you're having a conversation at the table? And how is that communicated? That's not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u201	What I can imagine in such a case is this. Suppose there is a parent who has initially indicated: I think I am eligible for this compensation scheme based on what I have been through and what I think is going on. Then, together with the case-manager, it will be examined whether it really is, whether there is information for it and so on and so on. If that is not the case and the parent does not agree with it, then there is the possibility of having the committee of wise men look at it and have it assessed. We will have to organise part of this behind the scenes. But as far as I'm concerned, there doesn't have to be a decision before you look at the next step, which is: if it isn't this arrangement, can you use the hardness of the scheme, for example? That's what we're trying to do at the same time. It will also partly depend on what a parent wants to do, but I imagine that it will be looked at together: "What is the best arrangement for you, in what situation? You have the right to review everything, i.e. to visit committees, to object and appeal." But when we're at the table, I hope we can come together to the best arrangement for the parent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u202	Yes, Mr. Fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u203	Very briefly. Does that also mean in practice that you postpone a formal decision as long as possible because you want to have the conversation as long as possible to get out? In conflicts, the Tax Administration can also simply ask the parent: "We think we are not getting out completely. You think you're entitled to more. Shall we make it available, so that you can really object?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u204	For example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u205	It's that type of operation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u206	Exactly. So in the first instance you go together to the committee of wise men and they say yes or no, of course motivated. Of course, you can deal with that at your disposal. But it is much nicer to first see if you can come out together, because that is of course what you want most in the end. That helps, I think, the best for everyone, but of course for the parent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr Omtzigt very briefly and then Mrs Lodders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u208	I have a follow-up question to what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked. If there is no click with a contact, can a parent then switch and is a parent entitled to assistance in such difficult conversations? Can he bring someone himself? Then question two. I assume everyone involved with CAF will be gone next week from the recovery operation, because this was already a promise from your predecessor from September. I assume that also applies to people in the technical line, because there are a few people there...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u209	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u210	With regard to the first point you mentioned, can the parent switch from his handler? Of course. If there is no click and if it doesn't work, it can. I especially hope it will work, because that is what we are all working on. Our businessmen are also very motivated to do so. Of course, the parent can always be assisted by anyone. That may be a lawyer, but that may also be someone else he or she trusts or who is pleasant to take. I think it's important that a parent feels very comfortable in such a situation. If you say "I don't want anyone from the CAF 11 period to work anywhere in the surgery of surcharges," then you can't. I have indicated that I do not want them to play a decisive role in the assessment of cases and that they are not the contact person of parents. But sometimes it may be that someone from the past is still needed to make sure that information comes up, that systems can be looked at and so on. But the bottom line is that the people who make the decisions and the people who are the businessmen aren't people from the old organization. I understand very well what the sensitivity behind that is, so I will be very careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u211	I see this as a commitment that next week no one will... Because there are now parents who have people from that period on the line. I'm assuming that's over next week. In the technical line there are people who judge and there we probably have two people from the CAF period. I assume that they are no longer working there. They can work very well with all other parts of the Tax Administration, but not with this review operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u212	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u213	If this is still the case, I will get to work on this as soon as possible, as I indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u214	The Secretary of State sketches the picture of how parents are being taken care of. In any case, this is clear, especially for the parents who do not have much discussion about the dossiers or about the information. But then that assessment comes. There are incomplete files. I don't know if the Secretary of State... We are talking about the parents now, and this will concern the parents in particular. They think "I always have a discussion about my file" or "the explanation I have asked about the lack of that one criterion and whether that means automatically..." How does this trade-off take place? Would the Secretary of State wish to outline this in the same way as she has just done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u215	Then at the same time I move on to my next block, because that is about the balance we are looking for in this law, in the corresponding AMvB and in the arrangements. On the one hand we want to create clarity and on the other we want to keep room for customization. The dilemma was also outlined by Mr Snels. On the one hand, you want to make sure that your parents make clear in advance what they can count on, but on the other hand you also want to offer customization, together to table and so on and so on. That also means keeping a certain amount of space in that arrangement. If we look at the Donner criteria, these are the criteria to assess bias, because that is what you are talking about, it says that if you, so to speak, meet one of those five criteria, there may be biased action, both at group level and at individual level. The core theme is biased action. You've been treated by the IRS in a very bad way. There have been things in your file that cannot and do not belong to how the law should have been implemented. Your supplement's been stopped, it's been recovered without being looked at, excessive research has been done. Those criteria provide a basis for this and the Committee of Wise Men uses these tools to assess them. They have done so at group level. I would like to say something about this later, and on an individual level they are still going to look at it. But it is not so that we can already say that if you have not been called twice or if so many years of supplement has been stopped, it is justified and in any other case not. That will always have to be weighted by the committee. The assignment she's been given is whether biased action has been taken. Is it true that someone has been wrongly treated by the Tax Office? It is not because of the law that this is the other category, the hardness of the scheme, but because decisions have been taken about someone or someone who has a major impact on what happened afterwards. Again, these criteria play an important role. You don't have to meet all, one can be enough, but the most important thing is the theme of that bias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u216	I think this is a good explanation from the Secretary of State, but at the same time I try to think about how I would sit at such a table as a parent and then hear the Secretary of State refer again to the Committee of Wise Men. And that committee of wise men will not be reviewed until the Tax Administration/Applications has taken a decision on what such a parent should come up with. I see the Secretary of State shaking no, but that is at least how I have seen it from the reply and from the explanatory statement. If I'm wrong about that, I'd like an explanation. What is the hold on parents to be able to make such a trade-off of their own?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u217	Parents' support is whether these criteria have occurred.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u218	So the criteria and the coherence of the criteria. I do not want to push for the answer to be given now; as far as I am concerned, it may also be in that easily readable letter that is being asked. I think parents want to understand. Mr Snels also indicated this. And someone who supports the parents wants to be able to read it and check it out. I myself miss the law that a little more explanation is given about this. If that's possible in writing, I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u219	I will certainly try to do so in writing, but I am trying to point out that there is really a question of the Tax Administration taking decisions and doing actions that were not in accordance with the law. So stopped cashing out without prior call or correspondence, and asking out excessive documents, that's the core criterion. The IRS made some very serious mistakes here. In the case of the hardness of the scheme, the scheme was very sharp: you didn't have that one receipt and you had to pay back everything. Then it is not so much the fault of the Tax Administration, but a deficiency of the parent after which the scheme worked very hard. That's the big difference. I would very much like to return to that in writing. That is actually the big distinction between these two schemes, although in both cases parents may be very disadvantaged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u220	Mrs. Lodders, there's a letter coming. I'm really gonna stop the meeting at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u221	Mr President, I am very reluctant to interrupt, as you have seen in the first term. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the letter and ask her to take account of the consistency of the criteria.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u222	Yes. Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u223	I hope that the Secretary of State can finish the part she has announced, because I think that is what the people are waiting for. I have one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u224	No, just for the record, we agreed to stop at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u225	You say that, but I think we also agreed what the Secretary of State would answer in this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u226	No, I'm in charge, and I said we're gonna stop at 11:00.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u227	I note that you said that, Mr President. We're treating an important law for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u228	Everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u229	And this in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u230	Yeah, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u231	I have a question. In June it will be tested with how it works out. Will this month also be used to see how this method of working, which should ensure that parents do not feel the need to jump through hoops and cross the obstacle course, how this cooperation can take shape properly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u232	Yeah, that's exactly the point. We're gonna see how it works. Together, if not officially, we are going to look at the files and assess them and try to identify with each other the policy rules and the balancing frameworks that you need to use to deal with a parent's case in the file. In addition, of course, we are looking at: how are we going to do that, how are we going to imagine doing this together with the parent? Once again, we are doing so with the Ombudsman's criteria in mind and we are doing so on the basis of the fact that we want to further examine how we look at that parent who did not have that one receipt, whether all this has yet to be proved or not, whether we find plausible enough, which is plausible and how we make sure that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u233	I suggest that you deal with the rest of the points in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u234	Good. I would like to say one more thing: I have already indicated this about the letter sent to parents that they are or are not one of the parents on the basis of the group-level committee's assessment, at the level of the total CAF case, and whose file is comparable to CAF 11 or not. That means: you are eligible for the compensation scheme, you will get your money back that you were once entitled to and you will receive compensation. A large amount of parents got that letter, a total of about 10,000, and it's clear that that letter wasn't good. Not in the sense that he was necessarily very wrong in terms of content. Those who have received the letter stating "you will be eligible for the compensation scheme" will be eligible. But the letter that said "you are not eligible for the compensation scheme" and then there was a lot of text that said that you could possibly be eligible for it. At the heart of the matter is that the people who have received the letter that they are eligible for the compensation scheme are eligible for it. It's not a decision, it's not a decision. It's just an announcement that we'll get in touch as soon as possible and then work it out concretely for those parents, to calculate for them what they're entitled to. With those who have received the letter saying "you are not eligible at group level' we are going to contact them. We have also discussed this in an earlier debate to ensure that these parents are approached individually to see if they are eligible for this scheme. For there are certainly parents who are eligible for this scheme at individual level. Then we are going to do with them what we have just talked about: together to see whether this arrangement applies to them or whether other arrangements apply. So it's very clear: people haven't been rejected. That has been said a few times in the debate. No one's been rejected. I have already said something about the balance between bespoke and generous. We are going to be working on it in the next few weeks, trying to clarify exactly how we are going to implement the law, how we are going to do the assessments. Of course, we are going to look very closely at that, not only with the committees that supervise us, but we are going to do so ourselves. I am also a member of the crisis team; there was a question about that. I think it is important for us to look together to see whether we think it is logical and right that the assessment of dossiers should not be about the individual parents but about the types of things that are there, with the aim of being generous, based on the human dimension and certainly equal treatment of people in equal cases. I'd like to make the move to the organization. More has already been said about this. The special organization that we have set up for this is going to work and is very well judged by the committees that work with us around it. She looks very closely at whether we are doing well towards the parents, whether we are doing well in terms of content, there are committees that are going to do so to make sure that people understand what decisions we are making and, of course, to ensure that we properly organise our entire organisation. What I also think is important is the theme that was raised by some of you, but also specifically by Mr Snels. This was about whether the National Ombudsman could still play a role in this. I got in touch with him this afternoon. Although of course he wants to retain his own normal role, he would like to think about the question: what role could I play and could I monitor this issue? If we ask him this question together with the Chamber and the Government, he is willing to think about what that might look like. So that might help us. Moreover, I think it is important for some of you to tell us that we will continue to monitor progress closely, not only with regard to the dossiers and ensuring that we keep up with the pace that Mr Nijboer has also said a lot about this, but we certainly need to look closely at whether the results of the decisions that we are not doing on file are really what we are aiming for, namely the generous, human and equal treatment of the different parents. I would like to take a step on the subject of 'deception/great debt', but I see Mr Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u235	Yes, Mr Omtzigt, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u236	In this block, the Secretary of State spoke about the letters sent on 28 May. Looks like it's pretty quick to decide on 10,000 parents. Is there now a possibility for parents to say: I want to have an opinion on this because the whole file is based on this.................................................................................................................................................. Is there any way to do that? Or has this stage passed in one day or two for ten thousand parents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u237	No, what I have indicated is that the first step was to clarify and work with the parents who are certainly eligible for the compensation scheme as soon as possible. All parents who have not now been assessed as a parent whose file is comparable to CAF 11 can be assessed for themselves. In fact, we've indicated that we're going to do the same. You ask whether we can do that in groups or combinations. My idea is that we do this individually as soon as possible, because these parents have not been rejected and they have not yet received a final decision. On the contrary, we would like to work with them to see whether they are still eligible for the compensation scheme and, if not, for the hardness of the scheme or the safety net provision, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u238	I understand you're still going from chance one to chance two. This can lead to the same outcome, because we will still find ourselves in the same system of institutional bias. A number of files have been identified by Donner as likely to be comparable and will not be treated in the end. Can parents ask for the institutional dossier and is there any form of possibility to see if the whole group can still be treated in the same way as CAF 11, especially since these decisions seem to have been taken rather quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u239	You and a number of others, such as Mrs Leijten, have asked how that went exactly. I believe that you and Mr Mulder have asked for this too. I propose that I return to that in writing and that I indicate how that process has gone. Then we can talk about what step would be good to take as a follow-up, to make sure that parents are clear about what is going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u240	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u241	Thank you for that. Then we will also see the list of decisions of the Committee of Wise Men and we will know exactly on the basis of which documents that has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u242	In fact, it is very nice news that the Ombudsman wants to play a role and keep an eye on whether the execution is done with a human dimension. I understand he needs to think about that, given his independent role. The Secretary of State also said that the Ombudsman considers it important that the Chamber and the Cabinet consider it important. How am I supposed to see that procedure in front of a High College of State? That's a little complicated. Should we ask for a motion? Should we ask for a letter from the Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u243	I think we should just write a letter and ask him that question. I'd be happy to do that with you, see if we can ask the right question. Besides, I don't know if we can do that together. We could take a look at how that works. But we're gonna make sure it's taken care of. That's actually the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u244	In my view, it is a good undertaking from the Secretary of State to write that letter to the Ombudsman himself at the request of the Chamber. I think that's a very nice option.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u245	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Leijten, let me look at the Secretary of State. Could you please finish this point after all? Because I don't want to have to cut you off halfway through your speech. Maybe we can discuss one more topic and indicate which topics you will be returning to. Then I'll really go at 11:00...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u246	Yeah, exactly. I only had one topic after this, and then I'm going to say something about how to proceed. That was about OGS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u247	Fine. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u248	Nevertheless, about that assessment of people, about that togetherness, putting all the arrangements side by side, looking at what is best for you and then preferably making a decision with each other. Well, there's a group that's gonna be compensated this summer. There's a test group in there to see how that goes. They can therefore benefit from that compensation scheme. But there may also be people who fall under the harshness of the rules and get their money back. But they have not yet been able to choose between the system and the safety net system, because the safety net system is not yet in place. How exactly does the Secretary of State see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u249	It's, I think, not a matter of choosing between one or the other. We're gonna find the best arrangement for the parent. The aim of the safety net provision is mainly to increase the hardness of the system, or a parent for whom none of the other schemes are concerned, while there is a distressing situation and so we want to compensate. So in the event that you outline, in which someone would be eligible for the toughest meeting of the scheme, we can do so in advance. The safety net clause does not apply at that time, but as soon as it is in place, we can of course do preparatory work on this. We're gonna make that AMvB together. At least we're gonna make it and we're gonna present it to you and then, of course, we're gonna discuss it together. But my core point would then be to ensure that, as soon as possible after that safety net arrangement is discussed, implementation takes place. But we can get started.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u250	So I fully understand that this summer there will also be a group that will get that toughest meeting of the scheme, which will get back some of the money or money that has been wrongly recovered, and that we will then be able to see in November whether they will end up in a safety net scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u251	We're gonna see if that's the issue sooner, but only then will we have the legal basis to do so. But I certainly also intend to be able to pay out not only some of the parents who receive the compensation scheme in July, but also to look at the parents who are affected by the hardness of the scheme. I would also like to do so because part of the parents who are not eligible for the compensation scheme but who belong to a group which is very badly affected. I want to be able to help them as soon as possible. So I will make sure that parents from different schemes are compensated. It was also about taking the Chamber. I indicated that I would very much like to do so: together with you, make sure that the progress reports look good and that we can monitor with each other whether that is what we are trying to do with each other. Because I am convinced that we want the same thing, namely to ensure that these parents are compensated properly, as quickly as possible and humanly. Of course, it is my job to make sure that the organisation is ready to do so. But, of course, we also need to keep a close eye on it. Then I go to the part about set-up/greater debt and the safety net clause. In the letter of amendment we sent last Monday, we indicated that we thought it was so incredibly important. We discussed this in the previous debate. I indicated at that time that there are still themes that we do not yet know exactly what the situation is, how it is that the parents may have been affected. So that could be because of those missing documents. That could be based on ethnic profiling. But I don't want to wait until that's all clear, because otherwise we can't get to work. But we do want to make sure that the law allows parents to do something about it. I don't know about ethnic profiling yet. I'm not sure exactly what's going on with documents that have disappeared. But we know more about intent/great debt by now. Getting that qualification could have serious consequences for those parents. However, it is particularly important that we have had that insight over the last week, in fact between the previous debate and this debate, that a lot of parents did not get that qualification correctly or that we do not know why they received that qualification anymore. That is what Mrs Leijten said, namely that in such a qualification the burden of proof is on our side. We need to explain why someone has or has received this qualification. If that's not clear anymore, it's wrongly given. Then we will have to work to compensate for that. We need to define what exactly needs to be done. I heard very well what the Chamber said. Some of you have said: I believe that the compensation system should apply. Some of you have said: yes, but we also have to look at how that works out, and whether or not some parents receive too much compensation or too much compensation. That is exactly the debate we need to have together. I would also like to do that in the context of completing the safety net provision. But, again, I think we'll have to work with that. These were actually the cubes I had for tonight. Of course, that leaves a lot of questions open. We haven't been able to go over it yet. We did not talk about the precise functioning of some parts of the law and the rules you mentioned, not about the whole organisation and not about a number of other issues. We'll talk about that, of course, if it's okay, next week. I am going to try to put a number of themes on paper for you, perhaps giving more information before next week's debate. A number of amendments have also been tabled. So I haven't been able to appreciate that either. I will see if I can do that in writing. That also helps, I think, to be able to give you some of that information. Then next week we can continue the debate with a little more basis, information and answers. Because my hope and wish is still very much that we can actually finish this next week and vote on it. Then the First Chamber could look at it and still have the room to debate it, and then we could still be able to actually compensate the first parents in July.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u252	Brief question, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u253	If you got set up/greater debt for your choice, it had to be done with good reporting, because you were actually labeled as a fraud in all systems. I explained in my term how that also worked with income tax and other assessments. You ended up in the FSV. And what does the Secretary of State say on page 54 of yesterday's reply: inadequate evidence, I am very sorry, the citizen was not informed of the fact that he was called a fraud and was therefore unable to defend himself or defend himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u254	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u255	And this isn't biased? Look, I don't want it in a safety net. I want it to be compensatory. The Secretary of State says all the time that she wants to compensate equal cases equally. These are equal cases. Why can't that just get into the law? CAF is in the law; then you are compensatable even though there is always an individual test to follow. That can also be done on purpose/great debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u256	I agree with you that it may very well be that some of those set-up/greater debt situations that parents have found themselves in are very similar to the compensation scheme. Some of you have already said a little more about this. But I think it's okay to watch it work out very well with each other. Is it true it's like this everywhere? Is this the scheme that should apply to all parents who have entered the set-up/greater debt situation? I cannot give a definitive answer to that at the moment, so we have to look at that as well. But I agree with you that in the case of qualifying, there are parents who have gotten incredibly into trouble, and some of them are very similar to what happened in the CAF 11 cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u257	When it comes to people who have been dealt with under such a CAF study, an individual test always takes place. When you make set-up/greater debt worth compensation, an individual test will always take place. The situation is therefore still being looked at. Then I don't understand the shudder to put that in the law. That really has a lot more certainty, legal certainty, in this difficult subject for people who have been affected. They'll be able to check in. Then it can be tested. Otherwise, they will have to wait for a safety net clause and we will have to fight again for a general measure of governance. Put it in the law and let it be the logic of the CAF. You may be eligible and you can rely on it, and an individual test will take place. I do not see the problem, and it is really essential for me that it should be treated in the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u258	I see Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u259	At this point I also had a question. The Secretary of State said I'm watching. Is she also looking at next week's debate? Is she watching how she wants to put this in the safety net? Or is this something that's on another... I'm just looking for the time frame in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u260	I indicated in the letter of amendment that I would like to give this arrangement a place in the safety net provision. That means she becomes part of an AMvB. So that is actually my aim, in particular to look closely at the question of which scheme best suits what kind of situation. My idea is therefore to focus on providing clarity on this as soon as possible, to include it in the AMvB and then to be able to compensate on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u261	I'm also looking, and I'm thinking out loud right now, maybe the Secretary of State can take that into account in her thoughts about how much more you can refer back from such a safety net. So could you see that there are people in that safety net who could still go to the compensation scheme? I'm trying to find out if that's legal at all, but if the Secretary of State is thinking...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u262	Fine. Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u263	A follow-up to Mrs Leijten's question on intent and gross guilt. We can go one step further, perhaps in a written explanation. If I accuse someone of being a fraud and put him or her in a system for eight years, with all the consequences, is that a criminal act? I am asking this question because we are only going to compensate now if there is a serious distress. But in my opinion, the mere fact that you consider someone a fraud, when he isn't and you can't prove it, is already a criminal offence. That should at least lead to compensation. I'm not looking for an extra report, I'm just saying here for clarity. I'm looking to find out if this is a criminal offence. If this is a criminal offence, then I think that is simply an ongoing compensation which, of course, can depend on the amount of damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u264	Number one: I have heard you and several of you very well. I have also indicated that I think that this set-up/great debt is a really heavy topic. Because I know that many parents did not only get into financial trouble by getting that qualification, they did get into long-term financial trouble, but indeed some of you pointed out by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten Omtzigt. For example, they got into trouble because of the registration in the BKR system or otherwise, so they weren't easily able to make a loan somewhere else, so they got into trouble again in other places. That qualification had not only financial consequences, but also other kinds of consequences. That is why I would very much like to take a good look at that. As Mr Omtzigt and Mr Van Weyenberg propose, I would very much like us to come back next week to how we could do that. Because I understand that you say it helps you if you get a little more insight into what we're going to do with those people who got the qualification set-up/great blame, what that means to them and how you can make that more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u265	Thank you. Then I shall suspend this debate. We have agreed to look for a date on which the Secretary of State can answer the questions further, as well as a number of topics that she would come back to. A number of questions will be dealt with in writing. I hope to find a place next week to finish the whole debate and deal with the law carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u266	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u267	You have a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u268	Yes, Mr President, a very simple point of order in this case. I would like it if this time it would be possible to have the answers in writing 24 hours before the continuation of the debate. That would help me in the preparation a bit. By the way, the FSV study has been published. Well, that could be part of it. Then we can prepare for the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u269	I'm looking at the Secretary of State for a chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u270	We are, of course, going to do our best to do it as soon as possible. I would suggest that we return to the FSV trajectory at the moment when we have completed the research and have given our own appreciation. We sent you a letter on that. We could discuss it in the AO. I think it would be a good idea to separate it from this debate. But I will try to ensure that we make the answers to the questions as quickly as possible and send the documents we have said will be sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u271	I would like to thank the Secretary of State, the Members of Parliament and all the parents who have followed this debate or perhaps look back tomorrow in a different way, like the messengers, who have been frantically cleaning all evening, and of course the Stenographic Service and the clerks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-10-tweedekamer-9.u272	I'm closing the meeting.
