ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u1	I would like to welcome the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to the First Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. This is a special debate, because it is structured differently than most other debates in the Upper Chamber. In most other debates there is legislation ahead, which we as First Members of Parliament can comment on. Today there is no legislation before it, but a report. We are discussing this with each other, including the Minister who has not yet determined his position on the proposals contained in the report. All things considered, we haven't seen much of a cabinet response. Today, we are in the role of the advisory section of unfulfilled legislative proposals. We have to imagine what we hope will come up this way again. However, I do not mind, because it gives us the opportunity to outline some broad lines on the democratic rule of law, so I will at least take up our mission. Then I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation for the work done under the State Committee. It's a pleasure to read the report. It also contains a great deal of commendable material and I look forward to discussing it. In particular, I look forward to Mr Doornhof's maiden speech, which I would like to congratulate. But, of course, we also need to place some critical notes. Let me start by saying something about the title of the report. This report goes under no less than three titles. First of all, we have the main title: low thresholds, high dikes. I always find that a little confusing. You should then first go into the introduction to see exactly what the background is. Before you know it, you think: what was low and high again? Was it those thresholds or those dikes? We're getting a little more leverage with the first subtitle: report from the State Committee on Parliamentary System. That title too is not without dangers, because it is actually too little comprehensive. The parliamentary system is the system of democratic control introduced in the Netherlands in essence in 1848, under the king who looks at us every Tuesday through that report and who also wanted to be among us, reportedly, with the beginning of ministerial responsibility and thus the beginning of democracy. But today we are going to discuss far more than the parliamentary system. We are going to talk about the rule of law, and perhaps above all about it. For this reason, I think that the second subtitle is more solid: democracy and the rule of law in balance. I think that is a good title for two reasons. First of all, of course, because it is broad democracy and the rule of law, because that is what we are talking about today, but also because of the balance sheet. If the subtitle of the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy contains the word 'balance sheet', then it may also be out of balance. There is a cautious suggestion that it could be out of balance at the moment. I find that very interesting. I think that suggestion is correct, as will be shown in the further course of my story. Democracy and the rule of law in balance. First of all, it is important that we ask ourselves what is actually a rule of law. You'll find a lot of different things about that. It's about to become a bit of a container concept. I can see that in the Minister of Justice's tweets. I saw that also in the speech of the throne, where a description of the rule of law comes along, which I thought: no, that's not him. The rule of law is the restriction of government power by law. It is very important that we keep that in mind. In doing so, I would like to describe democracy as 'the self-government of the citizens'. The rule of law has the ambition to be a state that limits its own power through law, through an organizational principle of separation of powers, the trias politicians, and by granting citizens certain individual rights that they can bring against that government. Then you already have a better description. There are then a number of important moments when you pass the history of the democratic rule of law. It begins in the distant past, in 1648, with the establishment of the national states. From that moment on, the world has been divided into about 200 nation states, but then it might have been a different number. We then know the monopoly organization of state power in the territory of the state, a very important moment in 1648. A century later we have in 1748 Montesquieu, who is revealed to the trias politician as an important principle and writes l'Esprit des lois. It restricts state power; this is a bit of the beginning of the rule of law. Then we go on for another 100 years and come to the beginning of ministerial responsibility in 1848. I just referred to it as "the king." The centre of gravity then shifts a little from the King to the ministers. That was a very important moment for democracy. Another century later, in 1948, we get the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. There is a global consensus on the importance of individual human rights as an instrument for expanding that state power. Another five years later, in 1953, we will work out this further under the Council of Europe in a European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and we will be given a review mechanism. In fact, in the Netherlands, all Dutch courts are empowered to review laws against the binding provisions of the Treaties. The constitutional review shall then be rejected in Article 120 of the Constitution. So Article 120 Constitution rejects the national review option. Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution then provide an opportunity to review laws against human rights from treaties. In 1953, that system of democratic rule of law was to some extent abolished. It's finished. We've worked on it for four centuries, and that's what it's all about. We need to balance the rule of law and democracy. So we now have a little over 50 years of experience in trying to balance that and keep it in balance. That is the system of a state (1648) who also wants to be a rule of law (1748), who also wants to be a democracy (1848) and who wants to respect human rights (1948) with an implementation mechanism in 1953. The question before us today, and I expect it to be in the years to come, is how pleased we are with this balance sheet. Do we think there is a balance and, if not, what is the problem? Then there are roughly three positions that you can distinguish. There will be a group that says: it is roughly in balance; it is actually fine; the existing system is functioning well; we must stop undermining far-reaching criticism of that system as soon as possible. That's the first position. The second position is: it is not quite in balance, and I am counting on the State Commission to do so, but with a number of adjustments we may still be able to get it in balance. The third position is: it's really not balanced at all, it's out of balance; we've been trying this for 50 years now, but there are still a number of problems. You won't be surprised that my party is in this position. I'm not going to tick off all those proposals from the state committee. That is going to happen this afternoon in the debate. I'm going to take one thing out of it that I think is a good manifestation of the thesis that the system is out of balance. I am going to say a few words about the relationship between the legislature and the judiciary. In particular, I would like to say something about this judicial review and whether the system is not out of balance and, if so, why. Mr. Chairman. It cannot have escaped the fact that the Supreme Court recently decided with the Urgendavonnis that CO emissions should be at least 25% lower by 2020 than in previous years. That has caused great turbulence, not only with my party, but with many others. To give an indication: I recently saw an article in the International Journal of Constitutional Law of a Spanish professor, who refers to this judgment as a landmark judgment. Well, that doesn't happen often, that a Spanish professor in an international magazine says something about a ruling from the Supreme Court. Well, obviously something's going on. The international community feels that very well. The Supreme Court itself, by the way, gives an English-language summary. So it is understood that something very fundamental has been done. The question is: how does this relate to the balance of the rule of law and democracy? We are then dealing with Article 21 of the Dutch Constitution, which says: "The concern of the government is aimed at the habitability of the country and the protection and improvement of the environment." That public care obligation is linked to Article 2 of the ECHR, right to life, and Article 8, right to respect for private life, family and family life. The crucial question, which you will find throughout the report of the State Committee on Parliament's system, is who, in the last sentence, should explain that concept of "life" from Article 2 of the ECHR. According to the positive law, this is, of course, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or the Dutch judge. That Dutch judge can also test against the ECHR. That's what the Supreme Court did in this Urgendavonnis. Is the legislator the first person to explain this or is that the judge? That's actually the big question. Since 1953, therefore, we have had a system in which this possibility of review exists for the judges. The question is: is that a happy situation? The critics of the Urgendavonnis then say that the concept of "life" is far too broad to be coloured by judges. Emeritus Professor of State Law Groningen Douwe Jan Elzinga says: If the judge is allowed to decide whether the climate measures are sufficient to protect life, then the judge can also decide whether you can still light fireworks. After all, that also has to do with life. What doesn't life have to do with? Abortion, euthanasia, road safety, war, peace, crime, why couldn't the judge even ban the car? After all, there are a lot of road accidents. Think of new legislation on completed life, which is now being discussed. The latter would be a very interesting test case for trust in the court: a situation in which our Supreme Court would review and declare inapplicable any legislation on completed life because of conflict with Article 2 of the ECHR. That would be very interesting. The moment we get there, I think there will be loud protests, especially from the left side of the political spectrum, about what we call "dive-rocation." I'm going to present a motion on it tonight. I hope that this House-wide support will be forthcoming; I expect that after you have heard what I am going to say about it. I'm going to say a single word about the word. Who introduced the word "dikastrocation" into the Dutch discussion? Who gave that word "dikastrocation" a very central place? Well, it occurs for the first time in the public committee meeting on 9 December 1974 in the Lower House. That debate was then attended by the former senator for the PvdA, Prof. Erik Jurgens. He was a member of the PvdA Group of the First Chamber from 1995 to 2007, and served for 4.382 days. A highly respected seniority and, moreover, a great state lawyer. I go back further, because prior to his membership of the First Chamber, Jurgens was a member of the House of Representatives. In 1974 he performed there on behalf of the PPR. During that debate, the Constitutional Review, the Constitutional Review, which is not possible in the Netherlands according to Article 120 of the Constitution, was also discussed. This review of laws against the Constitution continues to be discussed, again in the report of the State Commission. Jurgens is against it. He says that this constitutional review is actually contrary to democracy. If you would be for it, we get a dikastrocation in the Netherlands.He writes it with a c. He says on 9 December 1974: I am in favour of a democracy and I am not in favour of a dikastrocation or a government by judges. I quote him: 'If the judge decides what is contained in the Constitution and can therefore declare decisions of the national parliament unbinding, I think that is too big and too heavy a task for the judiciary, which was by no means laid down in the Netherlands for that purpose'. It is our former Member of Parliament, a state law professor Erik Jurgens, who in 1974, 39 years old, introduced the term "dikastrocation." He did so in the context of a discussion on the review of laws to the Constitution and thus on the balance between the rule of law and democracy. He is going to stand on the side of democracy and not on the side of the dikastocracy, as he himself puts it. The issue that Jurgens raises has actually been over the market since 1953, the completion of our system. The question is: what do we think after 50 years? The nice thing is that empirical material has recently been presented on this issue, the political assessment of laws by judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u3	I do not quite understand Mr Cliteur's lecture yet. I'm sure that's up to me, but maybe he can help me out a little bit. I understand there's a beautiful word that's been going on here and there for a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u4	1974.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u5	Yeah, but what I don't get is this. If I understand correctly, there is currently no review of the Constitution. Mr Cliteur is opposed to this; that is possible. But he is now using the Urgendavonnis, which was not a Constitutional review, because that is not allowed, as proof that we should not want a Constitutional review. I have a feeling there's an inconsistency in his reasoning. I would like to explain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u6	Jurgens opposes the review of laws under the Dutch Constitution. He says that this is contrary to democracy. Next, you can ask the question: the review of laws under Articles 93 and 94 of the Constitution, all the arguments that Jurgens has against the review of the national Constitution, do not apply to the review of treaties? So we come to a very fundamental point, because then we are talking about the possible democratic legitimacy of the whole principle of judicial review. If, moreover, the judge is taking an active part in this, one could say: judicially activist, then that means that there will in fact be less and less room for manoeuvre for democratic decisions and more and more decision-making by the judge. The constitutional element then cannibalizes a bit on the democratic. That's actually the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u7	I understand from Mr Cliteur's analysis that he would prefer the democratic element to be cannibalised on the rule of law, because he said that the rule of law is precisely intended to protect citizens from the government. I think the point is something else. He says: I believe that the review of international conventions should also be abolished. But he wants to go one step further in reducing it; that is one thing. But at the same time he also knows that it was not only a review of international treaties in the Urgendavonnis. It was also a review of the government's own position and judgements and of what the government itself had already done. So he says: government, you already want it, but then you have to do it, to protect the citizens. I do not believe that this ruling is justified in order to put this all on the map of the international conventions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u8	Mr Ganzevoort is quite right. There's all kinds of legal basis for that. So we will also have to look at it, and I would also like to do so not only now, but even in the years to come, or we believe that the legislation that has been made is the right legislation. You hear a lot of people say, "Yes," but that judge doesn't. Now you put all the "debt" in court, but it's mandated by law. I admit that equestrianly. That's right. But we also need to think about the kind of legislation we want. We also have to ask, for example, whether you should constitutionalise a right to life. Does a right to life lend itself to judicial review? Because then you get the problem that car mobility, war, peace, completed life, in fact everything is ultimately handed over to judicial decisions. Then we, as legislators, have very little to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u9	I listen with great interest to Mr Cliteur's speech, because he does identify the dilemmas that are playing. However, as he builds his speech rather heavily on what Erik Jurgens said on the other side of the House at the age of 39, I would like to point out to Mr Cliteur that, when we discussed the Halsema initiative proposal on the constitutional review of the Constitution by the judge in 2004, Erik Jurgens spokesperson in that debate and that he was in favour of the proposal for constitutional review. I would suggest that Erik Jurgens should not be called too much as a witness a charge, because Erik did not say that his life was better, because that is a political choice, and his vision has changed. At the age of 39, he talked about dikastocracy and that judges should not be about democracy. In 2004 he was a step further and had understood the dialectic that Mr Cliteur was talking about and he voted in favour of the initiative legislative proposal Halsema. It's just a know-it-all for colleague Cliteur. Because if you build on stones that change position later, the whole story can get a little weaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u10	2004 is an important year. In 2004, Erik Jurgens published an essay on this subject under the title On the illusion that judicial review of the law under the current Constitution makes sense. Then he repeated his speech from 1974. He said, as one of the writers in that booklet, that I myself was allowed to edit, but that is an incidental fact that the judge should not sit on the chair of the legislature and the executive. That would cause dikastocracy. The complaints that already exist about public administration through administrative law will then increase exponentially. We are getting legalization of politics and thus, by allowing the law to impose impossible demands on the judge, undermining the function of law in society. The word "undermining" is also nice, because we have talked about it a lot. So he warned in 2004 as well. And also very recently: against Urgenda. It's a bit of a Jurgens-exegesis, but that's not so important at the end of the day, because Jurgens also makes roads that I don't like. But here he did have a very good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u11	With a great deal of interest, I am following Mr Cliteur's lecture. I understand that he has major problems with judges who interpret standards and actually go beyond their field of expertise. Now we discussed the Environment Act here last week for two days, which results in very poor legal protection for citizens, entrepreneurs and all the Dutch, and which gives open standards to the judiciary to fill it out at will. We, as GO, have also warned against this. How is the vote of Mr Cliteur's group compatible with this argument about the excessive powers of the judiciary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u12	I'm afraid that's very compatible. I also understand, of course, that there are all kinds of vague standards in legislation. But that's not really the problem at all. This concerns the issue of judicial review of higher law on the basis of very broad standards such as life or right to life. That's actually what we're talking about here. The fact that there is always an element of interpretation in a court ruling is not really the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u13	That's, I think, the problem. Not only do I say that, but lawyers of name and fame also say that you are creating a very big problem with an open standard of justice for the Environment Act. This is precisely the reason for the problem that Mr Cliteur and his group want to combat, because the legislator is sleeping and the law is not legal and gives too much room for manoeuvre. If the judges take that space, it's because we gave it to them. I'd say watch your back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u14	I would ask you to stay with the Remkes report and not bring in all the previous legislation. But I understand the example. I am going to see Mr Dittrich, also in view of the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u15	To stick to the Remkes report, you started your speech with compliments to that committee. One of the analyses of the Remkes Committee is that there is a gap in the legal protection of citizens if they want a law to be checked against the Constitution. 'Cause you can't. The Remkes Committee wants to provide for this and comes up with this constitutional review. Now I understand from the Forum for Democracy that people always want to help citizens in their relationship with the government. If you reject a constitutional review, will you not leave the citizens of the Netherlands in the cold?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u16	According to the current system, that is not the case, because many lawyers of name and fame, among others Jurgens, say that we can miss that constitutional review. The Dutch Constitution is not at all set up on a possible review. The Dutch Constitution formulates fundamental rights, but it immediately states that they can be restricted by law. We therefore do not need the system of the European Convention on Human Rights, which must be regulated by law, in a democratic society with certain target criteria. In fact, the Dutch Constitution does not at all give good protection to Dutch citizens in its current drafting. That is why, in the 2004 article, Mr Jurgens said that I have just quoted that constitutional review makes no sense at all. That Halsema bill, which Mr Ganzevoort has just mentioned, is actually worthless, in the sense that it will not give extra protection. The ECHR will do so, but we are going to discuss a possible constitutional court and a concentrated review in the exchange of views. We can talk about this, but then we must also talk about the drafting of fundamental rights as set out in the Dutch Constitution and also the drafting of fundamental rights in the Treaties. And then I come back to Urgenda: then that right to life is perhaps too dangerous, because it is actually going to transfer all decision-making power to courts. We need to be very careful in this regard, and I agree with Mr Otten on what we are all going to put in that legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u17	Then I would like to ask Mr Cliteur what proposals he is going to make to close that gap in the legal protection of the Dutch citizen when it comes to the relationship between laws and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u18	Is the answer to that in the course of your speech, Mr. Cliteur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u19	Mr. Chairman. I take this as a suggestion I'd like to take over from you. If you don't mind, I'd like to say something about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u20	You have another interruption by Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u21	I have also listened with interest to the argument and I can go along with a number of things, especially when it comes to what we put into legislation and the like. But of course the President wants to stay far from that. I understand that, so I will not mention all the examples. Mr Cliteur pointed out that constitutional review was not, at least for the time being, a feasible route and perhaps the Constitutional Court, but it would still take a number of years. What does that mean for the position of Parliament and in particular of the First Chamber when it comes to the protection of the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u22	May I ask you for a brief answer and then to continue your speech, given the time? Otherwise, we're gonna walk out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u23	I will answer it very briefly. I have not yet said that constitutional review must be ruled out in all circumstances, but that, if we want to go in that direction, if we want to think about that constitutional court, we will not be able to do so without including that treaty review. Then we must also bring Articles 93 and 94 into line with Article 120 of the Constitution. It would actually be a very large legislative operation that would take years. I am very excited about this, because we have all kinds of ideas about what fundamental rights should be anchored and what not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u24	Mr. Schalk for a short while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u25	That is exactly the point I was referring to just now with my question. What are we supposed to do in the meantime? Because the First Chamber is supposed to be the guardian of the Constitution. How does Mr Cliteur judge the way we do that at the moment? Are there any suggestions for this, at least for the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u26	A brief answer and then you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u27	One sentence, Mr. Chairman. We are going to think very carefully about the relationship between democracy and the rule of law, and keep in mind that as soon as we create a constitutional instrument, with a possibility for review before the courts, which always goes away from the democratic system. That is actually what we need to realise very well and what few people realize. Many people think: the more fundamental rights, the more human rights, the more the sun shines. Well, that's not exactly the case. It means that, in a sense, you also have a bit of a nibble at the democratic element of the democratic rule of law, and that is a very important starting point that we will have to bear in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u28	Your clock's gonna run again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u29	Okay, I wanted to paint the case a little bit more empirically, because this weekend there was a poll by Maurice de Hond about the resistance against the dikasocracy, a phenomenon that is now emerging. I also like to see what the possible support of the other groups can be for a critical sound about this dikasocracy. According to De Hond, 61% of those questioned think that the political preferences of judges are reflected in some of their judgments; 61%. The Dog's been looking at it by lot. It will not be surprising that you find most of the concerns about political verdicts at the Forum for Democracy: 90%. Then the PVV comes with 84%, but also VVD and CDA are quite high. The VVD with 72% and the CDA with 69%. They are therefore concerned about the political influence of judgments by the judges. If one then looks at the parties on the left, then of course one is not convinced at all of that political influence of judgments. The lowest one is also not going to be surprised. At D66, only 22% believe that political preferences of judges are reflected in the verdicts. At GroenLinks that is 29% and at the PvdA it is 33%. Those right-wing parties are therefore concerned about the political influence of those judges, but not the left-wing parties. But what does that have to do with anything? That, I think, also has to do with the satisfaction with the content of those judgments. D66 and GroenLinks are less concerned about judicial activism, because judges realize part of their political program. I see an interrupt, but may I finish this case, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u30	I would actually like to ask you, given the time available, to finish your speech, because you have already had a lot of speaking time. We'll let you finish that and then we'll see... Mr. Ganzevoort, do you agree? Mr Ganzevoort would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u31	Just like one scientist to another. It is good that empirical things are on the table, but then we also have to look carefully at the quality of the data that is put on the table. One of the big questions that Mr Cliteur undoubtedly asked himself as a scientist is whether there is no priming in the way in which De Dog asked these questions, so that the question has coloured in the answer. Does the fact that the one who has to answer gets a question about Urgenda first and then about the political colour of the judges color the answer? Suppose De Hog had started with the question: do you agree that judges have been imposing much higher penalties lately when it comes to all kinds of crimes? Then it might have been that the other question had been answered differently. In other words empirie is beautiful, but let's also weigh well what the quality of the data is. I think that is very much at stake in this question by De Hog.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mr. Cliteur, go ahead. After that, I will not allow any further interruptions, otherwise it will be too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u33	De Hond's research is also confirmed in several ways by other studies. That's the first thing. I would also like to make one comment about a possible arrangement on euthanasia in the case of completed life. The dog has also fooled how people look at it and that is interesting again: 97% of the D66 voters are in favour of the possibility of euthanasia in completed life; in the CDA it is 8% and in the Christian Union it is 0%. Okay, 97% D66, 0% in the Christian Union. That's gonna be hard in that coalition if we're gonna make a bill like that. But that's not even my concern. At some point there is such a bill, and then it comes to the judge and so the judge has to see how this bill relates to that right to life. Then you will see that all of a sudden the cards will be very different, because then D66 thought: we have our bill now, we have won it in the legislative fora; while the Christian Union says: now we want a vigorous judge who is going to declare this law contrary to the right to life. Then you suddenly get judicial restraint with D66 and a great activism with the parties that oppose that bill. Okay, conclusion. What does this mean? It means that we need to think very carefully about the balance of democracy and the rule of law in the coming period. In particular, we will have to look very critically at this judicial review. Should this be a concentrated review at that court and how does that relate to Articles 93 and 94 of the Treaty? Then I am inclined to think that it is therefore important to have a whole fundamental discussion about the precise relationship between legislative power and judicial power and what that relationship should be. That must be separated from Urgenda or a law on completed life, because there you will actually get different material depending on the outcome of a particular fraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u35	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u36	No, unfortunately there is no time for interruptions anymore, because we have been running a long way from time to time. You'll have your own first term. We've already used half an hour of interruption time. I call Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u37	Mr President, on a point of order. I waited very nicely until the end, until Mr Cliteur had finished his speech, to ask my question. Then it's weird that you couldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u38	I may allow brief interruptions of the Rules of Procedure. I've been doing that for half an hour now. We are thus really well over the time allocated to this. Then we need to establish a later end time. I now move within the estimate that went around in advance and has been honored in the College of Seniors. Within that time frame, I move, and that is why I am giving the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u39	Mr President, I have difficulty with this. Not because I'm such a supporter of the PvdA, but you should be independent. Mrs Vos has been sitting in her bench all this time and has waited for Mr Cliteur to finish. I think she should have the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u40	Fine, that's a point of order. If the majority can agree to this, we will then decide. Then I give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I understand that next time I have to interrupt during a speech. I've been waiting for my question. I am very curious about the direction Mr Cliteur is taking. He says, "The balance is going crazy." It's from version 3. My group believes that the balance in the trias politician, the first, second and third power in the Netherlands, is good. You can talk about that. My question is: does he agree with the PvdA Group that the judiciary can control the government and also the parliament, for example under its own laws? I wonder what direction he's thinking when he says the balance is going to go crazy. Where should the balance go? Should we restrict the judiciary? That is the big question we have to ask the Forum for Democracy Group at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u42	That is a very legitimate question. This question has been under discussion for a long time, including in the scientific literature on it. From 1803, there has been a discussion in the United States about whether a judge should exercise restraint, judicial restriction, or judicial activism. We at the Forum for Democracy are in favour of restraint. We believe that a judge should exercise restraint. Social change must not be achieved through the judiciary, but in principle according to the legislative power. That's an attitude we're asking of judges. But there's something else that goes with that. We need to be very careful when we go down that whole path of what needs to be done in the Constitution. We must guard against the proliferation of fundamental rights. We shouldn't make too many. We must be very careful whether a particular fundamental right is suitable for review. We must ensure that we do not give fundamental rights status that entails... Such a right to life, for example, is actually a life-threatening right, because it has everything to do with euthanasia, with war, with peace, with climate. Anything you can put in there. At the moment when you create such a right yourself as a legislator, you should not be surprised if at any time all the possibilities for legal regulation of something are in fact thrown out of your hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u43	Do I now understand that the Forum for Democracy says "be reluctant to give rights, otherwise the judge will say something about it"? I recommend that you take into account cases in which the individual has the right to go to court to be protected in the further development of your thoughts, because I find it reasonably worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u44	Short, closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u45	I cannot, of course, recognize myself in the representation given by Mrs Vos of what I have just said. I am in favour of legal protection, I am in favour of good legal protection, I am in favour of a good legal system, I am in favour of a balance between democracy and the rule of law. I just warned that, at the moment when you are going to introduce very broad, open standards in the form of fundamental rights, you should not be surprised that a democratic deficit is going to arise. That's what happened. We've had this system since 1953. We have been experimenting with it for half a century now and we see that the balance has gone too far on the other side, on the legal side, at the expense of the democratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u46	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. I now give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking the State Commission for its proposals for the possible adaptation of our parliamentary system. My group has been in favour of the state committee from the outset and has been able to contribute to its creation, after the VVD announced in 2014 that it wanted to reflect on the role of the First Chamber in our parliamentary system for its muffled reasons. That opened up new perspectives for my party, which is convinced that we are protecting our democracy best by constantly strengthening it, including by doing great service to our parliamentary system. That is largely based, Mr Cliteur, on the Constitution, which was established in 1848. We see that Constitution there, on the portrait of King Willem II. It is a Constitution which the king would have preferred not to have seen, but in which he decided by means of a few constitutional steps, to prevent the revolution that had already taken hold of many parts of Europe here too. In order to preserve his crown, you can also see it on that beautiful painting, which the king himself had made as a special gift for this Chamber, William was willing to have the Constitution in force substantially revised. And so he appointed a state commission. By putting it under the leadership of the liberal foreman Thorbecke, the king knew that he would have to leave many feathers in favor of the parliament, which he had until then firmly under control. After all, the Second Chamber was elected by the fine fleur of the provinces, the members of Provincial States, and the First Chamber appointed the king himself, as his stronghold around the throne. Thorbecke wanted to get rid of such a powerful and autocratic kingship and on his way to a parliamentary system, in which not the King but Cabinet and Chamber would be the boss. The Chamber, because if it had been up to Thorbecke, in 1848 the First Chamber had been abolished and we had been given a single chamber system ever since. The fact that we exist today is thanks to that king and to the conservative majority in both Chambers at the time. By amendment, this Chamber was, against Thorbeckes' will, rewritten in the Constitution of 1848. That was the price of getting a majority of only one vote for Thorbecke's other proposals at first reading in this Chamber that year. It's just that we know how things can be. It was perhaps a good thing that these proposals were not presented to the Chamber by Thorbecke himself at the time, but by Minister Donker Curtius, who put together more diplomatically, I understood. Thorbecke would have said that the First Chamber was without ground and purpose and, if it came to it, would not be counted as useless delay or put aside if it dared to oppose the Second Chamber. It can all be read in the beautiful biography that Jan Drentje wrote about Thorbecke, if you ask where I get my knowledge from. Thorbecke was known to be in favour of taking power from the governorate and increasing the power of the law. And so he invented the constitutional monarchy, in which the King is inviolable and the ministers are responsible. These, together with the States-General, would henceforth make the laws of the country and be controlled by those States-General in their executive work. From now on, the Lower House was directly elected, although only by people with pennies, and the Upper Chamber kicked, by people with even more pennies. In 1848 it was still a little too early for popular sovereignty. The division of tasks between the two Chambers, in the words of Donker Curtius, would be that the House of Representatives was supposed to do the right thing, while the First Chamber was meant to prevent evil. It's a nice system. The Senate, as the auditor of the House of Representatives, should watch over his passionate sister, in the words of a nineteenth-century legal scholar. Later we liked to call ourselves chambre de réflexion. Today we say that we monitor the proposals presented to us by the government and the House of Representatives for necessity, efficiency, feasibility and enforcement, as well as the relationship with the Constitution and international treaties. That is correct, but at the same time this Chamber is also fully competent to control the government in all its executive tasks. Therefore, both chambers have similar rights, with the exception of the right of initiative and the right of amendment, which are reserved for the Lower House. Both chambers have an absolute right of veto, the right of investigation and budget law. Those aren't fake rights. The State Committee emphasizes the unprecedented strength of our Senate compared to abroad. The committee refers explicitly to the first parliamentary examination of this Chamber when it supports its proposal to introduce a law on decentralisation. If the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance had strengthened its negative assessment of the tax plan for this year in December by voting against the rest of the opposition on the basis of the budget right granted to us, the First Chamber would have for the first time in 100 years effectively obliged the government to shape its budget for 2020 in a significantly different way. In that case, the Chamber would have actually re-directed the cabinet. But unfortunately GroenLinks didn't want to score this time, as a kind of reverse PSV, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. Anyway, after Thorbecke's constitutional revolution of 1848 the constitutional revolution of Cort van der Linden followed in 1917. His proposals led us to the idea of universal suffrage, proportional representation, the financial equivalence of public and special education and party democracy, including compartmentalisation. A proposal to abolish the First Chamber didn't make it to the second round. From now on, however, everyone could in principle be elected to this Chamber, regardless of income, title or CV. Thanks to this provision, we can now all sit here, from lord to dike, from professor to chess grandmaster, from specialist to publicist, and with a diehard socialist as a nestor. Poor Willem should have known all about it. Mr. Chairman. And now we all have to judge the proposals that Johan Remkes and his colleagues put to the government and parliament. Let me look at the main proposals and comment. I will always look at the Minister for the Interior and ask him to respond to my comments on the various aspects. After all, the government's support is indispensable for measuring now that the state committee has put its report on the table. Mr. Chairman. The State Committee proposes to maintain the two-chamber system, but to adapt the role of the First Chamber, in particular by introducing the return duty. That last proposal was already on the table in 2000, but we did not come to a conclusion because the debate was then suspended pending a position by the House of Representatives which has not yet been reached. My group still sees and sees the advantages of such a return right. In that structure, this Chamber, like now, can approve or reject the legislative proposals approved by the House of Representatives, but also bring them back to the House of Representatives in amended form. I believe that, on balance, this proposal will ensure better and faster legislation and a more effective role for this Chamber in the legislative process. Yes, therefore, is our opinion on the introduction of the right to return. Of course, we still have to talk about the modalities. Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, it would be better to move away from the two-chamber system and merge both chambers into the one State-General that we are actually already.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u48	It is interesting what Mr Kox says about the return right. Suppose the First Chamber sends a bill back to the Lower House in accordance with the proposals of the State Committee. The government and the House of Representatives then assess that, and according to the State Committee, that bill will not be returned to the Upper House. Suppose in the debate between the government and the Lower House it is said "we do not take into account what has been said in the Upper Chamber; we do not agree with that, so we leave it as it is," or that they give it a different twist. Is the position of the First Chamber strengthened or actually weakened if we do not get that proposal back? That is my question to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u49	I've been thinking about that. That is always useful, because these are complex issues. I think it will have been strengthened on balance. The case mentioned by Mr Dittrich may arise, but there will also be another legislative proposal. As stated in the proposal of the State Committee, the Chamber may approve, reject or return it as amended. If the House of Representatives has a tendency to say, "Well, bye!', then a subsequent bill will not be sent back as amended, but rejected. So I think that's gonna set itself up, but it's terra incognita. We haven't had that yet. The state committee also points to another variant. You could also say that the amended version, after it has returned to the Lower House, will come to the Upper House one more time. But serious matters have to be done and this proposal can only be rejected by a two-thirds majority. That's also a possibility. I am only concerned that this idea, which is not new, because I think it was on the table in the 1980s, can increase the effectiveness of this Chamber. Of course, we are constantly observing here: well, it could be, it could not be, this law, but those things should actually be different. We have such a complicated procedure with novelles and promises and all that. I think this would be a better method. We must try, but I do not see the danger of this Chamber getting worse. I was actually trying to explain what would be even better, namely that we would have a one-room system. In my group's view, that would be better. A one-room system is good to do. This proves the experience in the Scandinavian countries, which are certainly no less democratic than ours. At least one room is much better understood for the population. It lays the parliamentary burden directly where it belongs, namely the directly elected representative of the people. If it works well and is ultimately responsible for the legislation, an additional Chamber is no longer needed to watch over her eager sister. I can see why the state committee wouldn't have the courage to do that. Having the Rooms cut into their own meat does well and is not popular, but, as recalled, Thorbecke would be fine with it. A merged Chamber should probably have more than 150 members. The Netherlands is already a country with very few representatives of the people compared to the rest of Europe. In particular, a merged Chamber should have much more extensive opportunities to do its job well and to show its teeth, as well as co-legislators as an executive auditor. That's something the State Commission is advocating anyway. Such a merged Chamber should ensure that throughout the legislative process there is a continuous review of the elements which now seem to be mainly assigned to the Upper Chamber. So yes, if the state committee had made that proposal, we would certainly have said yes. But Johan Remkes is not a Thorbecke, and so he keeps his committee safe on the right to return, with which we as SP can, as said, also live well for the time being. We can do this all the more because the committee also makes some other proposals which could lead to greater coordination and cooperation between the two Chambers, such as making greater use of the existing structure of the unified meetings and possibly setting up joint committees. In particular, when it comes to an adequate review of the many far-reaching proposals of the European Commission, we believe that a common approach should be sought to ensure that Brussels legislation is effectively controlled by the Dutch Parliament. Almost all parties promised that after the impressive rejection of the European Constitution by the people in 2006. In the opinion of our group, both chambers cannot give this guarantee at the moment, despite all the efforts made, especially by this Chamber. Remarkably, the government has also put on the table a proposal on the First Chamber, which has just been rejected by the State Committee. The government wants to return to the system of election of the First Chamber in which half of the Senate was elected every three years. Let me be brief about this: we believe that nothing based nonsense will make the purpose and task of this Chamber even more unclear for our citizens. So don't. On both Chambers, the State Committee makes one major but extremely appropriate proposal, namely that proposals adopted by both Chambers may be subject to a corrective referendum. Given that my colleague Ronald van Raak is already busy on the other side of the House converting that plan into appropriate legislation, it should not be surprising that our group on this side of the Binnenhof welcomes that proposal from the committee as serious state-law renewal and substantial democratic improvement. Research indicates that a large proportion of the population is in favour of the corrective referendum through all political views. It is seen as a strengthening of our democracy. In particular, the people who are increasingly losing out because they feel that politics is not taking them seriously may get a sense of belonging to a referendum of this kind. So do, and as soon as possible, advise my group. We have some more doubts about the committee's proposal to introduce a constitutional court that makes it possible to review laws against the Constitution. The prohibition of review also dates from the Constitution of 1848. It certainly didn't come from Thorbecke, but probably from Dark Curtius. Anyway, it's still there. We have come no further than the Halsema legislative proposal adopted at first reading in this Chamber to enable a constitutional review of a number of fundamental rights by the judge. For this reason, it is remarkable that the State Commission is putting forward a far-reaching proposal: the establishment of a Constitutional Court. For the time being, our group would prefer to have the initiative legislative proposal Halsema approved by the Second and First Chambers at second reading. It will then be possible not only to invoke the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe in court but also to invoke the fundamental rights enshrined in the Dutch Constitution. The State Commission maintains the system of proportional representation; old ideas about the re-establishment of a district system have apparently been finally put to death. We're fine with that. However, the Committee wishes to better reflect the personal and regional component of the electoral system for the Lower House. Whether or not that brings politics closer to people is the question for us. Politics is human work, but it is more than individual voters choosing individual candidates. Our parliamentary democracy has been closely linked to political parties since 1917. With all the reservations about how political parties are currently operating, we still believe that a political party gives people the opportunity to take sides in political directions related to political ideologies. Democracy is more than and more difficult than choice between individuals. Whoever chooses will guide the future; this will preferably have to be done on the basis of strong ideas and proposals. The Committee recognizes this and makes proposals which should make it possible for people to explicitly choose a party as such and only if they so wish for an individual of a party. Our preliminary assessment is that we need to think again about this. This is also true of the committee's conclusion that there should not be an obligation to vote, arguing that voting is a right but not a duty. My group has not yet reached that conclusion. Paying taxes is a duty, because financing political choices is a necessary condition for a functioning democracy. Participation in education is a right, but it is also a duty, because training young people is a prerequisite for a solid foundation under society and democratic law. You adhere to laws and rules that are made by politics is a duty because they respect the rights of others. Then why shouldn't it be a civic duty to say who should represent you in decisions about laws and rules? In our view, there is a close link between law and duty, especially when it comes to the essence of democratic society. I would like to have a more detailed debate on this position. As I said, we are also thinking about this. When it comes to raising the electoral threshold and raising demands on political newcomers, our group is clear: do not start. We must keep our political system open to newcomers, no matter how strange and disturbing their ideas may be. We find it deeply regrettable that some people in this Chamber are calling for the categorization of population groups, contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution. We will continue to fight this here in this Chamber at all times, with arguments, with facts, in the hope that the voters will eventually see through and deal with political opportunism. However, restricting the parties' rights through higher electoral thresholds, guarantees or necessary statements of support or, even more far-reachingly, banning them through a law on political parties, we are not satisfied. Citizens should in principle be free to organise themselves in a political party on the basis of their political views, to whatever side they may move. In our opinion, the existing legislation already allows the courts to prohibit a party if it has the characteristics of a criminal organisation. You understand that our general line is here: extreme restraint. However, we agree with the committee that the formation of political groups through division after elections should be avoided as much as possible. After all, electoral deception and robbery should not be rewarded. A final far-reaching proposal from the committee to increase the involvement and influence of citizens is the introduction of an elected reformer. That is certainly a possibility that has already been mentioned in the past. The question is whether that is the best option. Our group is more concerned with encouraging political blocking before the elections with consequences for post-election government formation. That is not a unique proposal. In a country like Denmark, it already works something like this. The block with the largest electoral supporters may take the initiative of creating a new government in such a structure. Political blocing in advance on the basis of an agreed public election manifesto has been proposed several times by my party in the past. That it has not yet come to pass is history; we now write the future. For the time being, we would prefer this variant to the chosen formatter, because then it is not the person, but the political content that is dominant and best understood by the citizens if they make their choice. In summary. Our group is very pleased with what the state committee has put on the table. And since the State Committee has been set up on the actual initiative of this Chamber, this Chamber must also pay due attention to it. We owe it to the Remkes State Commission to do the best with its solid advice, and please speed it up. It doesn't have to be Echternacher Procession. As a reminder, this king, Willem II, established the Thorbecke-State Commission on 17 March 1848. Less than eight months later, on 3 November of that year, the radically revised Constitution was already proclaimed and a constitutional revolution was a fact. Those were the days. Eight months! As I said, the speed at that time was closely linked to the rapid social developments outside the Chambers, in their own country and abroad. It was evident at that time that those who did not adapt would be adapted from the outside. That was also the case in 1917. The fact that it came to an extra-parliamentary revolution in the Netherlands in 1848 or in 1917 was due to the fact that government and parliament were finally able to understand and act on the signs of time. Mr. Chairman. In 2020, as far as I can see, there is no threat of an extra-parliamentary revolution. However, there is widespread discontent about the actual functioning of democracy and our parliamentary system, as the State Committee also reports. Many people, especially those with lower education and lower incomes, often feel unheard or insufficiently heard, although they would like to. That is why they are generally in favour of democracy, but are far less positive about us politicians and the functioning of the parliamentary system. Which means we're living in a risky time now, too. Those who look around hear the lure of authoritarian politicians and see the advance of authoritarian systems. If we are to defend our democracy, we must renew and improve our democracy. The state committee's report can help us with that. As has already been said, my group is very pleased with it and is keen to work towards the necessary maintenance of our democracy. In our humble opinion, that makes us all better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u50	I fully agree with what Mr Kox said at the end. In that he indicates that there is actually a division. That's how the state committee appointed it. Does Mr Kox also have any thoughts on whether we can only solve this through all these solutions of the State Committee, which are, of course, institutional, or are there other human factors that can help us to reduce that division?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u51	Yes, Mr President, I am speaking through you to Mr Schalk. Look, this report can help, but if we think that by changing the rules we restore people's trust, we're doing something too silly. If we work better, the people who vote for us will say, "Hey, good job, Schalk, good job, Kox, good job, politicians!" Then, of course, we'll make a huge step. But it might help. Constitutional changes in this country are scarce. Mr Cliteur has already mentioned it and I have remembered it. Soon you'll be walking 50 or 100 years through history. It is therefore not surprising to consider once in a while whether this system, which was essentially approved by this King under pressure, can be modernised. I think that the state committee is making good proposals for this, but I very much agree with everyone who says that politics is essentially something of confidence. A representative democracy is the worst system except for all other systems, as Churchill would say. Getting yourself represented by politicians is a big deal. In conversation with people from countries with beginning democracies, you often hear them say: that's risky, how can I vote for you now, how do I know you'll do what I want? Yeah, that's a huge process of trust. Every time I try to explain, I think: oh, Kox, be modest! This question is also raised in the Netherlands. "I can vote for you, but if you're elected, you'll do whatever you want." That is not entirely true, but it is a fact that this is thought. A cultural change is therefore much better than a structural change, but that is no reason to avoid structural change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin on behalf of my group by thanking the Remkes Committee, which has produced an important and thorough report. That report and, above all, the cabinet response are at the heart of the debate today. We started in 2014. At that time it was already stressed that it should be a well-functioning state-law system and not, for example, as such, the clinking of the Upper Chamber. In 2016 this became even more concrete with the Duthler motion, in which the first consideration was called the involvement of the Dutch citizen in policy and politics. We are discussing today the analysis of the State Commission and, in particular, the first cabinet response to it. The chairman of the State Committee expressed his disappointment at the slow reaction of the government in the discussions with the Committee on Home Affairs. Indeed, the second cabinet response is still missing, so that we only have a limited part of the story on the table. But in addition to slowness, there is sometimes inappropriate speed. For example, the government felt it necessary to submit a legislative proposal for consultation on the way in which the Upper House was elected. The State Committee had expressly failed to do so and the report on securities transfers did not arrive until last week, so after the government announced its plans. What's the rush? What problem analysis was underneath? Why not talk to Parliament about the overall picture at first? I would like a response, because we do not see at the moment what the political intention of the government is with this proposal. In this respect it is also unclear that on page 17 of the cabinet response it is stated that the three proposals relating to the First Chamber, namely return law, amendment of the electoral procedure and amendment of the revision procedure of the Constitution, constitute a coherent whole. This return duty must first be considered, and the second is already under way. Can the Minister explain why these three are not presented in conjunction with the government's view that there should be coherence? In the report we find two red threads: the inadequate substantive representation of all Dutch people and the vulnerability of the democratic rule of law. I would like to deal with both of them, and at the end of the day I would like to discuss the task of Parliament. The first is the lack of substantive representation. Certain groups in society do not feel represented or insufficiently represented. We can see that, too. The composition of the Parliament differs, first of all, from the composition of the population on aspects such as age, level of education and housing region. But we would like to see a little more analysis, because this composition and also the feeling of not being represented do not mean that the views and interests of these groups of citizens are not sufficiently represented. It's not the same thing. Is there a deficit in the representation of content, or is there a deficit in the extent to which citizens feel involved? Both problems are very serious to take, but they do require a completely different solution. For example, a stronger regional accent in national elections may be useful when it comes to involvement, but in Dutch relations it is unlikely to have an effect on the substantive representation of positions. We must also ask whether the Netherlands is not too small to expect much of this, unlike France or the United States, for example. The government writes that greater regional commitment contributes to improved substantive representation. We would like an explanation of that. Does "contentual" mean political representation or subjectively polite representation? Same goes for age. Young people and older people are less present among the people. The same is certainly true for Dutch people with a migration background. In these groups there are perhaps even more differences in terms of content and political emphasis to be expected than in terms of region. But the government does not choose to come to that point with adjustments. Why is only regional union really important to the cabinet? I ask this because it is really necessary to talk about this problem analysis before we start discussing which model best regulates this, without undermining proportional representation. I'd like a response from the Minister. The same is true of the youth parliament which the government wants to install. That seems like a bit of a flight forward. The report mentions it in a footnote on page 166, but the recommendation on page 169 is that the House of Representatives should set up a consultative civil forum of young people, for example, please note: the House of Representatives and not the Minister. Can the government share its reflections on this point? Why is this form currently being chosen? And what are the powers of such a youth parliament? Is it more than a democratic pacifier? And how is representativeness guaranteed? We're not necessarily against it, but the question is what and how and why. The top seven of the proposals of the State Committee also includes the referendum. The committee is very clear about the importance of a specific form, namely a binding corrective referendum which clearly excludes certain issues and makes firm demands on turnout. The government would like to think further about this, also in relation to the motion tabled by our group member, Mr Lintmeijer, which called for a vision of new forms of direct democracy. We are still waiting for that vision. It is clear to my group that there is a need for forms of direct democracy, but also that it is essential that it is not a sweetener and that it must therefore be very clear what happens to the outcome of civil fora, deliberations and/or referenda. It seems that the report sees these forms of civic participation more as involvement than as substantive influence or direct democracy. This means that the risk of disappointment among citizens is just as great as in the consultative referendum. If we do it, we have to do it right. The question is therefore also how to facilitate democratic participation in the social domain and in what forms we can bring it back into politics. I would ask the Minister if he could give us a hint of the options he sees in order to really enhance direct democracy. I would also like to make a comment on all of this. The extent to which citizens and voters feel involved and represented may also be linked to the way in which we act as representatives of the people. The spread of lying racist tweets does contribute to polarisation in society, but does not contribute to confidence in democracy and the rule of law. To insist that such a tweet is correct or to play half-hearted when the lie comes true doesn't. It also says something about us as representatives of the people how we act and what we contribute to democracy and the rule of law. Know, by the way, that voters sometimes feel deceived by our political compromises, not because of the compromise itself, which is part of life, but because for the sake of electoral gain, we are calling harder for the bühne, while parties sometimes support laws that are at odds with them. In fact, we often simplify the political struggle to merely power and interests, and do not openly engage in the conflict of ideas that should be discussed. Maybe we can charge ourselves with all that. After all, the big question to which voters deserve an answer is what our great ideas are for this society and for this world. It should be a little bit more about that. The political struggle of nails on low tide is nice for the political daily rates and especially electoral daily rates, but it may also be one of the deeper reasons that people lose confidence in the parliament. You can't solve that with a structural change. The second is the resilience of the democratic rule of law. We welcome the fact that this has been the subject of more discussion in recent years, as this is a sign of the importance of the rule of law. We see in the cabinet response many elements that could contribute to resilience, including improved legislation for political parties and strengthening citizenship education. It is not so good that this debate on the rule of law is being used as it was this afternoon in order to discredit important institutional guarantees of the rule of law, with the argument that the parliament should have the last word. That was a bit of the discussion we had with Mr Cliteur about whether democracy should be cannibalised under the rule of law or whether it is happening the other way around. I think that is an important question: where is the balance? Herman Tjeenk Willink also covered this week in an essay in De Groene. He warned that politicians who made the justice system structuralally suspicious would also make the democratic rule of law vulnerable. That is why we have difficulty, I say to the Minister, in saying that the government writes that constitutional review leads to a distortion of state power, an increase in the influence of the judge on the political process and politicisation of the judiciary. We also see the guarantees of the rule of law in the independent judge, who is not leading politics and who can also call the government to account if she does not fulfil her own legal duties. And even though a judge doesn't always say what I want, I'm happy with that independent judge. It is part of the checks-and-balances that prevent a majority of 51% from pushing unfair and unlawful decisions. That is why my question to the government is: how is a judge assessing the Constitution a distortion between state powers or a form of politicisation of the judiciary? Then why is this the case and is it not the case when we check against international treaties? I would like to give a more detailed explanation of this rather subjective and suggestive comment by the government. We do share the analysis that strengthening the rule of law, especially in our polarised climate, is necessary. The legal protection of citizens is at stake. In our view, this requires a form of constitutional review. Of course, as representatives of the people, we should do so ourselves, especially in this Chamber. Unfortunately, however, there are too many examples where the constitutionality of certain measures is at least controversial and is mentioned here in the debate, but is not taken seriously by majority. Politicians may tend to consider the desirability of a measure more important than constitutionality. Especially when it comes to citizens' fundamental rights, Parliament's scrutiny is therefore not sufficient. That's how honest I think we should be. We do have hesitations in introducing a separate court for that. We ask the government to reflect on the possibility of excluding the Supreme Court from Article 120 of the Gw and to make constitutional review as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u54	These are all possibilities that are worth exploring. I would like to ask Mr Ganzevoort the following. We have a bill that has been passed here; I would add that it was adopted by 37 votes to 36. It was adopted in the House of Representatives. It's waiting for the second reading. It is a difficult legislative proposal, but it is about the essence: not about a constitutional court, but about constitutional judicial review of fundamental rights. What is the situation with the group of initiators at the time: does your group want to become more involved in the second reading? It will undoubtedly be very difficult, but that is the way we have to go. Or does GroenLinks say that for political reasons it simply doesn't exist anymore, so we're going to do something else, like the Supreme Court doesn't?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u55	I think Mr Kox is asking a fair question: should you not submit that bill before second reading? Of course, you also have a chance: what will happen then? We don't make it here in this Chamber, but it makes the House of Representatives. If there is a large majority in favour of this, so if we go along with each other that constitutional review would indeed be important, then it is obvious that this is the time to bring such a legislative proposal back into the process. I think that Mr Kox is making the same assessment: that would be a reasonable move at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u56	I don't use that last word, but that it would be a difficult move, is for sure. Mr Ganzevoort mentioned that politics may be too busy assessing what is political at the moment and is not sufficiently concerned with big ideas. This was a big idea. It's been approved by two rooms. I am not asking GroenLinks to throw himself in the knife and say: do you all vote in favour? No, because then we don't have a two-thirds majority in two chambers. But at the very least I am asking for the debate to be restarted: why seek a new path, when there is already a constitutional path? That would be my plea. The co-legislator, the Second and First Chambers, should not avoid a debate on a solution because it is difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u57	Mr. Kox now uses two layers. This discussion is not about the layer of great ideas. We still consider it important, and I repeat it here. The other layer, which he is actually talking about, is what the political tactics are to achieve that. That's different from the big stories and the big ideas. They're still there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u58	But if the tactic is "after September we are the first to submit the bill in second reading to the House of Representatives," then nothing happens. In the meantime, we are discussing a far-reaching step with the State Commission, namely a constitutional court. If I were a voter, I would say: I don't understand them at all, because they're working on something, but then they stop halfway and they start discussing with a state committee about something that goes much further and that of course it can never make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u59	Nor can I fully support the proposal of the State Committee. I say that we still consider the issue of constitutional review to be important. In fact, I repeat what we have always said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u60	Then I'll go to Mr. Kox, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u61	My last call would be to show courage. I will also call on colleagues from my group across the street: let us show courage. This is a good plan. It's not unique in the world at all. It's a good plan. It's a better plan than that of the state committee. I think we agree. Let's go for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u62	Thank you for this support that it is a good plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u63	I would almost answer Mr Kox's question for Mr Ganzevoort, but I do not think that is the intention. In any case, I have heard from both previous speakers that they are playing with the idea of introducing constitutional review, while at the same time maintaining the entire Treaty review machinery. My question is: isn't that a little too much of a good thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u64	That would be too much of a good thing if you thought they were totally contradictory regimes. That's not how we see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u65	These are totally contradictory regimes in the sense that the current wording of fundamental rights in the Dutch Constitution is totally inappropriate as a basis for review. In the current Constitution, you can limit the fundamental right by ordinary law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u66	I understand that Mr Cliteur would like to undermine fundamental rights. He calls it more beautiful and he formulates it better, because it fits his stature, but ultimately he wants to call fundamental rights into question because of its democratic nature. He said so in his own term. We see it differently. We see that it is important to strengthen the fundamental rights of citizens. We see that it is important to maintain the rule of law and make it more resilient, even against democratic arbitrariness. We see that there is no fundamental contradiction between fundamental rights in the Dutch Constitution. Perhaps in the way of formulation, but that will clearly play a good role in the way the judge handles it. But there is no intrinsic contradiction between, on the one hand, the Dutch formulation of fundamental rights and, on the other hand, the international one or the European one, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u67	Mr Cliteur, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mr Ganzevoort does not really understand the legal point I am making. I am not in favour of restricting fundamental rights in general. I do not want to abolish fundamental rights, nor do I want to undermine the rule of law. I would like to point out that there are restrictions on the restriction in the treaty review. A restriction must be regulated by law, must be necessary in a democratic society and must be bound by certain target criteria. We do not have these restrictions in the Dutch Constitution. If Mr Ganzevoort is very enthusiastic about constitutional review, he should actually propose I am going to help him now to include the whole treaty system in the Constitution. That is an interesting idea in itself. We can talk about that over the next few years. That would actually require a completely new Constitution. However, the point I made this afternoon about Jurgens, namely that fundamental rights in the current drafting of the Constitution are totally inappropriate as a basis for scrutiny, is not to be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u69	Mr Ganzevoort, and I would ask you to resume your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u70	I'm generally quite capable of understanding myself when I don't understand something. I wouldn't mind admitting that. I would like to thank Mr Cliteur for his attempt to change that. I will continue with my speech. In addition to these two red threads, I would like to discuss the position of the First Chamber. Of course, we are seeing a number of problems in the functioning of this Chamber, and also in the two-chamber system as it now operates. First of all, I would like to raise the question of whether the First Chamber does not operate too politically. Of course, we must say first of all that this Chamber is also simply a political body. But right after that, we must also say that politicisation can be recognised primarily by overly binding coalition groups to the cabinet, which seriously raises the question of whether there is enough room here for a thorough review of legislative proposals. Fortunately, there are examples where this Chamber is doing a very good job, but there are, in all honesty, examples where the Chamber knows very well that legislative proposals are problematic, but it still pushes through them with a coalition force. There are examples that the Chamber confines itself to its own task, but there are also examples that we imitate the House of Representatives here. Some self-reflection is needed here, because you do not solve this with a different structure, but with a better view of the task of the members of this Chamber. We also need a little more analysis here before we get to the concrete proposals. On the return right in some form is best to have a conversation with us, because it gives room to correct weave errors in the law without breaking the primacy of the House of Representatives. We would also like to discuss the amendment of the constitutional review procedure, which actually reduces the weight of the First Chamber at second reading. Then we must first focus on what exactly is the consequences of this. To be honest, it does not seem to us to be the most urgent proposal. I ask the government whether, in addition to the two examples in the report, including the Night of Wiegel, which has been a long time ago, there are more cases where a small minority has been able to stop a constitutional change. That seems to us to be relevant information. Mr President, I will conclude. We appreciate the problem description in the state committee's report. We are grateful to the committee for the many work and the inventory of possible recommendations. We also see that the government is shopping in it rather selectively. With the absence of a second part of the cabinet response, she leaves us in the dark on important points. We will have to be very critical of what the proposals will actually lead to. There are now a number of problems in the government's response without a solution and a number of solutions without a problem. Before the concrete proposals come to the table in the period that follows, we look forward to the Government's answers to the questions we are now asking, which are actually more about the analysis of the whole and on a number of main points in the reflection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I remember very well that last year the new First Chamber was installed. Then we stood here with 75 senators on the floor and there stood on a ladder the photographer. He took a picture of us and we all looked hopefully in the lens at the photographer. I put that picture on Facebook back then. One of the first reactions I received was: this is not the First Chamber at all, this is the White Chamber. In doing so, we actually immediately have one of the analyses of the state committee led by Johan Remkes. First of all, I would like to start by complimenting them. It is a good report with many interesting proposals and so on. Let's get back to that white room. The State Commission notes that there are several gaps in society, for example the distance between educated and uneducated people, between young and old, between people with and without a migration background, between people from the Randstad and the province and between man and woman. Those are different groups. According to the State Committee, not everyone feels well represented in our representative democracy. Distance sometimes translates into backwardness, misunderstanding or discontent, but also into being and feeling less represented. As a result, there is once again a social disadvantage. We need to use the analysis of the state committee to narrow that distance and really represent people. There is, of course, a task for the politicians to make an effort so that everyone in the Netherlands can participate. Many of the proposals of the State Commission aim to strengthen and balance democracy and the rule of law. 83 suggestions have been made. That's a wide palette. We from D66 in the Upper House want to use this debate to show what we think is important. It is a bit of a flawed debate, as has already been said by other speakers, because the government has not yet made all kinds of proposals and has not yet adopted a position on suggestions from the state committee. For us, for D66, the starting point is that we want a democracy in which everyone can participate, where the rights of individuals are protected, the arbitrariness of power is restricted and in which the majority cannot simply impose its will on the minority. This, of course, requires a vibrant and accessible democracy within a strong rule of law. We want people to be more involved in politics and to be able to participate in decision-making in all kinds of different ways, from national to local. By involving people, confidence in governance and politics will increase or increase. Involvement makes policy more transparent and makes everyone aware of the need to cherish our democracy. I would like to cite a number of concrete examples of initiatives by residents themselves in order to make it clearer. There are several possibilities for improved participation. The state committee also mentions a number of them. We see a lot in the national citizens' initiative, but also in it, and I really want to mention that specifically...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u73	I hear Mr Dittrich of D66 talking about the fact that the majority should not impose his will on the minority and that this should not happen at local level and so on. But what we see in the meantime is that a climate agreement has been concluded, where your party might be the hardest behind. In this context, measures are being taken in the country to enforce wind farms and solar fields, of which a large part of the population says: we do not want this at all. How do you see this attitude towards imposing the will on a minority, perhaps a minority who does not believe in the climate hysteria that many parties are after?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u74	The crux of a democracy is that ultimately the votes in parliament count, but that the majority take into account the interests of minorities. It's weighed against each other. At some point there comes a certain choice. Let's face it, not everyone will agree with it all the time and everywhere. This country needs to be ruled. We have listened carefully and there have been all kinds of climate tables. At some point, this is the deal. Well, then we'll have to get on with it. If we didn't, there would never be any progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u75	It is actually funny that Mr Dittrich calls them climate tables. It was precisely at these climate tables that the critical citizens and those who did not go blindly behind the climate story were not encouraged. But these citizens are now being imposed on wind farms and measures such as the closure of gas and the like. How do you see the position of the minority, and perhaps it is a majority of citizens who do not want to go along with these measures, compared to your view that this minority should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u76	Many people who disagreed with certain outcomes have managed to find their way to a political party, for example to your party, to my party or to other parties. This has been the subject of a wide-ranging debate, as it should be in a democracy. At some point a decision will come out of that. That doesn't mean you're always right. That's what the Remkes committee says. Let me get back to that. Remkes says that if you have a say, it doesn't always mean you're right. In addition, you have to do expectation management. You have to make it clear to people that it is very important that they give their opinion and that we also listen to it and weigh it down. But in that trade-off, you may not get what you want. That's the way it is in a democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u77	A third question from Mr Van Hattem and then we continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u78	The point is precisely that you said with great words that we must take that into account, but that this will be watered down immediately, just as the referendum has been pushed aside by D66. So how serious are we supposed to take the words you speak? Or is it just obligatory lyrics to refer to this report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u79	A response from Mr Dittrich. Then continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u80	You will have to take my words very seriously. I would like to mention a few examples of initiatives from the bourgeoisie. One example is the right to cooperate, the right to cooperate. This will allow the creation of a sustainable citizens' initiative in cooperation with local government. I want to give an example from Groningen: the Cooperative Wijkraad Oosterparkwijk. It has been in existence since 2017. That district council contains eleven residents of the district and a number of members of the Groningen City Council. Together they make decisions about the Oosterparkwijk. Lot has determined which neighborhoods have entered the district council. There is also a district panel of 400 neighborhood residents created by drawing lots. The Groningen D66 council member Wieke Paulusma has received the European Prize for Democratic Renewal for this project in Berlin, the Innovation in Politics Award 2019. My question to the Minister is how the government can promote this kind of new forms of participation, even if it is at local or provincial level. We are in favour of civil fora. I won't dwell on that for too long. The State Committee has also explained this in detail. We see a lot of that and ask the government to respond to it. I would like to dwell a little longer on the relationship between the electorate and the elected. Choose the Lower House in a slightly different way. The choice between voting on a party or voting on one of the candidates seems to us to be a good way of getting some more diversity and regional representatives. But, as I say immediately to Mr Kox, it depends, of course, on how political parties organise their own nominations and whether they themselves have sufficient regard for candidates from groups that are less or not represented. Of course, that also applies to my own party. By the way, it should be made easier for Dutch people to vote from abroad and preferably digitally in the long term. D66 also supports the early vote proposal, the right to early vote. My question to the government is: is it still possible to make this kind of small but significant changes possible during this cabinet period? D66, the members of the D66 Group in the First Chamber would also like to give citizens the right to table an amendment in the Second Chamber to a bill that the Second Chamber is considering. Our colleague Joost Sneller in the Lower House has submitted an initiative paper to this effect. It allows citizens to exercise influence during the legislative process, and not in advance, if at least one of the elected MPs accepts, submits and further defends such an amendment. Then it will be part of the legislative process. We think that is an interesting innovative proposal. That is the adjustment during the legislative process, but if a proposal has been adopted by the Second and First Chambers, then D66 would like to see a binding corrective legislative referendum introduced. Citizens can then pull the emergency brake and say yes or no to such a passed law. It is important, of course, how the thresholds are formulated. We know that the SP has tabled an initiative legislative proposal in the Lower House. I would like to say from this point of view that we will follow with interest this legal process. Then the position of the First Chamber in the democratic rule of law. The members of my group are not yet convinced of the need for a six-year term of office for the First Chamber. We know that the government has now put proposals on this subject into procedure. Let me say that we are looking forward to the opinion of the Council of State on this matter. What we do find an interesting possibility is the return right of the First Chamber to certain legislative proposals. We believe that it can promote the senate's task of carefully reviewing and improving laws where possible, because now it is actually yes or no to a legislative proposal. The question is, however, what happens if the First Chamber sends the bill back to the Second Chamber via that return right, after which a debate is held with the government and one does not agree with the First Chamber, one leaves it in the Lower Chamber and accepts the bill. According to the proposals of the State Committee, it is then an end exercise for the First Chamber and we can't do anything anymore. In that case, the question is justified as to whether this return right is a reinforcement or not. Fortunately, it is also said by the state committee: there is a modality and you can send the bill back to the First Chamber in which a two-thirds majority have to be opposed to stopping it. That's an interesting option. So as far as D66 is concerned, we're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u81	Mr Dittrich and I have already come to the conclusion that the proof of the pudding in the eating will be, but I think that we are constantly confronted here with legislative proposals that you can say are either a political majority or that they do not make it; the latter is rare and the first is common practice. We often agree, in spite of our political differences, that certain parts of such a law are shaky and could be better. That is what we are talking about for a very long time, but in the end it does not matter because there is a final political balance where we have to say yes or no. Hence my next question to Mr Dittrich. Wouldn't it be worth trying to find out if this Chamber can make all its knowledge and skills available to the House of Representatives to say: the law is going to go ahead, but this has to change in it? I actually have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u82	I can be very brief about that. The answer to that is yes, but of course it is about the modality of how we are going to do that. I agree with you that if it is more of a legal thing or when it comes to feasibility, the House of Representatives thinks: oh, what good of the First Chamber members that they have seen it, for whatever reason we have overlooked it, we are going to do so. Well, then there's not a penny of pain. But there will also be proposals in which the House of Representatives thinks: well, what they have said on the other side, we do not find and we make a different assessment. If that is a more substantive position, you can ask the question whether we are going to return the bill, then we no longer have the right to reject it. That's the question I'm asking here. I hope that the government will respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u83	To make the discussion a little less academic, because we are all talking in future: when we discussed the new Police Act here, it was clear that it would be passed for political reasons, but there was Chamberwide criticism about how the law was being put together. Eventually we have tricks, novelles at eleven major points, which have to change law. We have taken our opinion through the government and novelles to the House of Representatives, where all our proposals have been accepted. In my opinion, that could have been better and we could have gotten a better police law sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u84	In fact, Mr Kox cites the system of novelles, which the state committee says is a shortcut and that it is better to formalize it with a return right. I see a lot of that. You can also ask yourself the question I am now asking the government, which is exactly the difference between a novelle through that procedure and the right to return. I would like to hear a more detailed opinion from the government. Mr President, I shall continue with my speech. And I would like to take a moment to consider the constitutional court proposed by the State Commission. The State Committee does not do this instead of the First Chamber but as a complement to the system, because the Council of State is already assessing in the front whether a bill conflicts with, for example, classical fundamental rights. The proposals of the State Committee therefore include a constitutional court, after the legislative process has ended, i.e. when the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Government have adopted a legislative proposal. It is a law and then the Constitutional Court can say: you have not done your job properly, we signal an infringement of the law on fundamental rights. This would therefore strengthen the legal position of citizens in the Netherlands and make the Constitution a kind of lively cradle of the democratic rule of law. We in D66 are in favour of introducing a system of ex post constitutional review. Of course, its precise design is a matter of further consideration, but we would like the government to send the promised note on the various variants of constitutional review ex post to the Second and First Chambers in the short term. Speaking of judges, here's the thing. I was no longer allowed to interrupt when Mr Cliteur was speaking, so I now take the opportunity to say that I am uncomfortable with the way in which Forum for Democracy talks about independent judges in the Netherlands. I have the feeling that the criticism of judges, who are not really able to defend themselves because they are merely assessing substantive matters, is attacking a relatively defenseless group in our state system, in the trias politicians. That is why I want to say here that we really believe in the independence of the Dutch judges and that we do not think that they should be attacked in such a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u85	We believe in that independence, too. We believe that by creating independence as an institutional instrument it is important that the judge can also make an impartial judgment. We also believe that judicial judgements should simply be criticized and that we should do the same here in the Supreme Court. We talked about Urgenda this morning. In particular, this should not be seen as a personal criticism of those judges. The judges in the Netherlands are completely independent under Article 117 of the Constitution, so we don't have to come up with stories about Erdogan and Poland, because that's actually all a bit of voting. We simply need to be able to assess the products of the judges here, especially when it comes to very important statements that touch on the foundations of the democratic rule of law that we are all doing it for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u86	As far as I am concerned, the debate must be on which laws we have passed that the judge must enforce. If the judge finds that the government does not comply with its own rules, it is precisely the judge's job to say: ho, stop, this is not possible. If you are going to criticize the judge, you are actually at the wrong place. In this case, Forum should say in the Second and First Chambers: we are going to see how that law works and then we are going to start a discussion to amend it. To focus the focus on the independent judge, who is rather defenseless in the trias politician, that goes too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u87	Mr Cliteur would like to speak briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u88	The judge is not relatively defenseless. I saw a piece in the Volkskrant yesterday of a judge referring to a ruling by Hamilton that the judiciary is actually the weakest link. That's what Hamilton said in 1787, but in 1803, the right of review was introduced with Marbury vs Madison. From that moment on, in the United States of America, you have a very lively discussion about all kinds of judgments and whether the judge does not cross his own boundaries. It must be the case here in the First Chamber that we can criticise not only the products of the legislature, but also those of the executive and that we can also discuss those of the judiciary. We also need to be able to assess whether the judiciary complies with the constitutional limits laid down in the Constitution and in Treaty law. The moment we didn't do that, we wouldn't take our job here in the First Chamber seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u89	In response to what Mr Cliteur said, I think I find an inconsistency. At first he said that we should not talk about Poland and not about Erdogan, and that we are talking about the Dutch situation, but then he is talking about the United States where there is a lively debate about court rulings. But what is happening here is that statements by Dutch judges by the group are criticised by Mr Cliteur's party. He also knows that Dutch judges cannot come on television or in the newspaper to discuss the substance of the matter with him. They should not, because if they did, they would immediately be accused of having a party political colour or something like that. So they have a certain distance. They need to look at what the law is, what has been agreed in parliament and whether the rules are being applied properly. If a citizen states that it is wrong what the government does in comparison with what the government itself has agreed, then it is up to the judge to say that the government is doing wrong and that it has to do differently. Then it doesn't fit to criticize the judge. Then Mr Cliteur should criticise the co-legislator and, of course, debate here in Parliament and on the other side of the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u90	Mr Cliteur, you will have a second term. An interruption is intended to ask a short supplementary question. You will be able to make additional statements in your second term. Mr Dittrich continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u91	I will continue my speech and I am almost ready for a conclusion. The role of political parties in the functioning of the democratic rule of law remains of great importance. They play a crucial role as a platform for thinking about the future of our country. Our colleague Joris Backer recently said that in the Volkskrant. He said: "For a decisive democracy where the big questions are discussed, dilemmas and exchanges are discussed and choices are made, political parties are par excellence those places of debate and meeting which see it as their task to propose changes from their ideals and to include citizens in them." I needed that introduction to say that, in order to strengthen the democratic rule of law, we support the idea of a law on political parties, which also regulates the financing and maximisation of donations to political parties and individual candidates. We look forward with interest to proposals on transparency of political parties in their digital campaigns and the recognition of advertisements placed. A single word about the ban on parties, modelled on the principles of the so-called Venice Commission and on the danger criterion advocated by the State Committee. This could be reflected in the law on political parties. It would be nice if the Attorney General at the Supreme Court, who is not under ministerial responsibility, and is therefore truly independent, could ask for such a party ban if there is a party in the Netherlands that is truly antidemocratic. My question to the government is: does the government include a proposal for this in the announced law on political parties? When can we see that bill? I will conclude with another subject that has not really been discussed, namely citizenship education. D66 calls for more structural attention to be paid to democratic citizenship among young people at school. Knowledge about the functioning of democratic institutions and human rights is indispensable in a democracy for full participation. It is also about developing skills for how to make your voice heard and resolve conflicts in society in a democratic way. Last Sunday I had the honour to teach democracy at the IMC Weekend School in Amsterdam-Noord, in a disadvantaged area. I must say that I was really affected by the enthusiasm and level of knowledge of 12-year-old children. We had a whole debate at some point about whether or not there should be a ban on fireworks. What struck me is that a lot of these kids had eyes for groups in society that might be affected by those fireworks. They cared about the fate of those other people. Then I thought, "It's nice to discuss citizenship at an early age through education with young people." Finally, I would like to remind the government that we really feel the urgency to modernise our state system. We therefore call on the government to make haste with the development of a position on the proposals of the State Committee and the proposals I have raised. I would like to stress very strongly that the D66 Group wants to see significant steps taken in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u92	I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u93	Mr. Chairman. In 2014, the discussion we are having today started with a motion here in the First Chamber that eventually led to the report Low thresholds high dikes: Democracy and the rule of law in balance of the Remkes Committee, the report we are discussing here today. We are now six years ahead and are only now discussing the recommendations of the Remkes Committee, which published its report a year ago. This is the case in the Netherlands polderland. The problems identified by the Remkes Committee, namely a growing disconnect between the electorate and the elected, a public administration that, while costing citizens more and more through 80 billion a year, 10% of our GDP, but increasingly malfunctioning, does not produce sufficient results for the electorate and, above all, results in a great deal of consultation. But it doesn't do much good for the voters. The same concerns that lived here in the First Chamber in 2014 live with the people of the GO for years. The Cabinets-Rutte, which aggravated the economic crisis by policy errors and sometimes pure incompetence, with a feeble and little assertive policy towards the EU, transforming the Netherlands by Mark Rutte into an effective wingewest for Brussels, where the Netherlands has been the highest net contributor for years. Meanwhile, the EU wants more money from us. The government should take an example of the Kurz government in Austria, which has already threatened a veto. To this end, I called on the Prime Minister to this Chamber a few months ago. The purchasing power has also been eroded for years, pensions are being cut, we have the ridiculously expensive climate plans, which have been aggravated by VVD Minister Wiebes, who decided one afternoon afterwards to stop mining gas in Groningen and who wants to remove the country with the best gas infrastructure in the world, and of course there is immigration, which is not effectively curbed. How did this happen? This is because we have people in the Netherlands who cannot or do not want to address these problems. But also because we have a government that is harassing citizens with ill-thought-out system reforms, ill-thought-out legislation such as the nitrogen-related PAS, the Environment Act, which is now being introduced and making implementation errors, and which is starting failing ICT projects. This is a government that, if the case really does go wrong, takes very little responsibility for its actions, such as the surcharge affair and the settlement of the damage caused by the gas drilling in Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u94	Mr President, earlier this afternoon you were right to be a little strict about "staying on the subject'. Could Mr Otten explain what this has to do with the subject and return to today's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u95	That is a very good question, because I had just arrived at it: how can you change this? This was the introduction. Thank you to Mr Ganzevoort. We decided to become politically active ourselves. You are all familiar with the rest of history. JU considers that the gap between citizens and politics cannot be resolved by increasing the involvement of citizens alone. JU wonders where the involvement of politics on the citizen has gone. Because the government has dropped across the board, confidence has disappeared from many citizens. So the question is how do we ensure that there is an involved, reliable government again? How does GO see the future of our parliamentary system? How can we effectively increase the influence of the electorate on the board? Mr. Chairman. First of all, we want to change the electoral system. In order to achieve this, a few changes need to be made, so that more direction can be given to the Netherlands and realism and decisiveness can be put into practice. We want the electorate to have two votes in the Lower House elections instead of a vote, as we do now. One vote for the party on which one wants to vote and one vote for the person who prefers to be Prime Minister. Let me give you an example. You will be in the polling booth for the Dutch Parliament elections on 17 March 2021 and you will receive a ballot note with two choices: a choice for the party and a choice for the Prime Minister. You first cast your vote for the party, on GO because you find the positions of GO the most appealing and you think it is important that the practical, substantive and decisive sound of GO is well heard in The Hague and something really will change in politics. In addition, you have a second vote for the one you prefer to have as Prime Minister. For example, you put that voice on Wopke Hoekstra, because you prefer to trust our country to him, you want to get rid of the messing of Mark Rutte and not want a socialist in the Tower and certainly not a racist. The Prime Minister elected in this way has greater authority and democratic legitimacy. He can take control more effectively and put together his own cabinet. The elected Prime Minister is immediately the formatter Remkes mentioned in his report and on which Mr Kox also hinted. We know that in the Netherlands real changes can only be made during the crucial cabinet formations. Because in Dutch politics everything is locked up again. Mr. Chairman. What goes particularly wrong in this country, as I said, is the lack of direction. We have seen it in the nitrogen crisis, where the direction was completely lost, but we also see it in the areas of immigration, pensions and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u96	Mr. Otten, I'm gonna stop you right now. You are now halfway through your speaking time. Pursuant to Rule 94 of the Rules of Procedure, I must ask you to return to the subject of this debate, the report of the Remkes Committee, as Mr Ganzevoort rightly said. If you don't, I'm gonna have to take the floor. Perhaps you could at least try to relate your proposals to what is in the Remkes report, because that is the subject of today's debate. I therefore ask you kindly but urgently to limit or at least try to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I place the Remkes report in the broad context of the disconnect between the electorate and the elected. The question now is how opportunities for more direction can be realised and how the electorate can be given the feeling that he is involved in public administration. We are doing this, as we have said, by first choosing the Prime Minister, but more is needed. In addition to the Remkes report, we are also looking at the neighbouring countries to see how things have been resolved there, because it is not that complicated. Let's see how this is done in Germany. In Germany, government policy is governed by a number of principles. First of all, the Ressortprinzip, each minister has his own responsibility and the Kollegialprinzip, one works Collegially together. But German state law also knows the important Richlinienkompetenz or the Kanzlerprinzip, according to Article 65 of the Grundgesetz, whereby the chancellor can give instructions to individual ministers regarding the coalition's overarching policy. The chancellor may declare certain matters chiefsache and intervene. That's how you take control. That's how we can do it. What is also sometimes seen in Germany, but much more often in Britain, is a so-called cabinet reshuffle: well-functioning ministers are promoted by the Prime Minister to more important posts and poorly-functioning ministers are dismissed and replaced by better rulers. We believe that this possibility should also be introduced in the Netherlands. The composition of the ministerial team is now far too static. There should be more room for mid-term goodbye to non-performing ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u98	Mr. Otten, I'm going to interrupt you again. This is the second time I have asked you to deal with the Remkens report, or at least try to place your own ideas in the context of the Remkes report. If you do not, I will be forced to limit your speaking time to zero and to take the floor. I'm afraid there's nothing else I can do. So at least you're making an honest attempt to relate what you want to do to what's in the Remkes report. That is today's subject, and that is more than 80 proposals, which we are evaluating. You yourself have agreed to this arrangement, so the request is for you to deal with that report. Of course, you can add your own idea to that as an alternative. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u99	I would point out that we have just had an extensive discussion about the judiciary. I don't remember the Remkes report going into that in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u100	Mr. Otten, that discussion was about, among other things, the constitutional review. The Remkes report says quite a bit about that. That was the starting point for the speakers to come to that discussion about the place of the judge. I would therefore ask you, certainly on the basis of the example you yourself give, to take the Remkes report as a starting point. You now have five minutes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am focusing on another important issue from the Remkes report, the correct binding referendum. Mr Kox has just referred to this. GO is in favour of the introduction of the correct binding referendum and we are therefore following with great interest the initiative proposal of Mr Van Raak of the SP in the Lower House. We believe that the electorate should be able to put a brake on it if the elected representatives of the people make it too much of a burden and stray too far from the electorate. In addition, there is also a huge preventive effect of the presence sec of the correct binding referendum. This is part of the framework of the parliament, because the representatives of the people always have to bear it in mind: if we really make it crazy, then perhaps there will be a corrective referendum. This has an enormous preventive effect. In addition, we believe that it improves the mutual tolerance between groups of people who are sometimes tense. Mr. Chairman. Referring to the report of the Remkes Committee, I come to the question of whether a constitutional court in the Netherlands is necessary. GO is in favour of this. What good is a Constitution if judges can't test it? That's what I thought back in 1988 when I first saw this. Why can't we check it out? Then what good is the Constitution? The procedure for the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court should be organized very carefully with extensive hearings according to the American model, with the intended judges being carefully analysed by parliament on their views and ideas. We do see a practical problem of how this can be integrated into the current mixed monist system, in which international treaties in the Netherlands work directly into Dutch law. Perhaps we should consider switching to a dualist or mixed dualist system, such as in the United States, Germany and Italy. The international conventions must first be translated into national law. These national implementing legislation can therefore be assessed in the light of the Constitution by this new Constitutional Court. Mr. Chairman. I come to another aspect of the Remkes Committee, as you will see. I am sticking to the agenda, namely the higher threshold for voting. That's not what we're here for. We believe that there should be room for renewal. New, dynamic and democratic impulses are needed to keep democracy alive. Renewal must be possible here in The Hague. What we do want is fewer politicians and fewer levels of government. Less politicians, but we're gonna pay them better when it comes to GO. That way we can attract better people. On balance, we are cheaper than the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. As I said, there has been a gap between politics and the electorate. How can we narrow that gap? That is the question to which the Remkes Committee has also addressed itself. We believe that this can be reduced to a large extent by the way in which politics and government operate in the Netherlands. We must therefore focus on increasing the involvement of citizens, but also on why the administration is less involved with the same citizen. That is, in our view, the real problem. As far as we are concerned, it is a little under-exposed in the report of the Remkes Committee. How can we make the government more effective and effective? How can we provide the government with more accountability? We believe that the structural changes I have just outlined can give an important impetus to this in a broader context. As far as we are concerned, it is time for more realism and action, but above all for more direction. And you can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u102	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u103	Mr. Chairman. While the Rutte III cabinet is getting further away from our citizens by the day and this cabinet is leading the ship of state at full speed on the disappearance in the Bermuda Triangle, today we are discussing a report in the Senate that is ultimately nothing more than a distraction from the political failure and credibility of the self-reflected regents. The VVD joined the 2014 General Political Reviews with this state committee to distract attention from difficult political issues. The members of the State Committee were then appointed on the proposal of the political groups. The necessary former party politicians were therefore represented in it. For the PVV this was reason not to take part in this presentation. The report is therefore more political than academic. In any case, today's discussion in the First Chamber is an illogical step. As far as legislation is concerned, initiatives should normally be submitted to the House of Representatives, after which they will only be dealt with in this House once they have been approved. Now we are sitting as the First Chamber doing more or less double work with the House of Representatives. All the more reason to question the position of the Supreme Court. Nevertheless, now that it is on the agenda, I shall go into it further. Mr. Chairman. I quote the cabinet response to the report: "The cabinet endorses the analysis of the State Commission that the concept of representation is based on the confidence of citizens that their interests and ideals are served in a good and recognizable manner by elected representatives of the people. A good representation of all Dutch is the main legitimacy of the parliamentary system." Can the Minister explain what the cabinet has done on behalf of its popularly represented coalition parties so far for the confidence of citizens by serving their interests and ideals in a good and recognizable way? Is that abolishing the referendum, signing a Marrakech Pact, closing the nursing homes, raising VAT, crippling the country with unnecessary nitrogen measures, pushing farmers to the abyss, facilitating mass immigration with luxury asylum seekers' centres, recovering IS women and children, ruining the environment with wind farms, petty punishment for criminal scum, even more EU and an unaffordable European Green Deal et cetera et cetera? Is this in the interests of our citizens? Are these their ideals? Was this something in the electoral programmes of the parties to which they have given their confidence? What influence and involvement do citizens have on intransparent climate tables, on regional consultation tables asylum influx and on an external parliamentary energy agreement? How can a citizen recognize himself in this? How can the Minister maintain "a good representation of all Dutch people" if the judiciary consists almost unilaterally of D66 judges and the second largest party in the Lower House is not even included in the coalition negotiations and is not allowed to provide mayors or other prominent administrative positions? How can there be a good representation of all the Dutch who voted on it? How can the Minister justify this thesis of the cabinet to these voters or are PVV voters not part of "all Dutch" for this minister? I'd like a response. Where was this representation of all the Dutch when the Rutte cabinet ignored the results of the referendums? The Dutch voters voted against an association agreement with Ukraine. Rutte then drew it anyway. Or does the Minister seriously think that the citizen can recognize his ideals and interests in a meaningless insert? The same story applies to ignoring the outcome of the referendum on the new Intelligence and Security Services Act and ignoring local referenda on reclassifications, such as in the Groningen Haren. Citizens were not even allowed to vote in a referendum on the abolition of the referendum. For this cabinet only the interests and ideals of the snobbish government elite of Green Left activists, open border fetishists, self-destructive Islamophils and eurocrats count. One Commissioner Timmermans weighs more heavily for this cabinet than the majority of our citizens. Furthermore, the cabinet response states: "The cabinet recognizes that a substantial part of the population in our parliamentary democracy does not feel sufficiently heard, which has become increasingly visible since the beginning of this century." The Rutte cabinet recognizes it, so it is well aware that its policies and attitudes are not supported by a large part of the population, and continues to do so in the meantime. There will be no substantial changes, but transparent diversions by taking a few points from the Remkes report before the stage in order to keep up the appearance of democratisation. If the cabinet would seriously like the people to feel better heard, it is already possible to adopt a different attitude. There is no need for a report or a package of measures. In fact, by stating that this has become increasingly visible since the beginning of the century, the cabinet could have thought of this years earlier. Let that moment at the beginning of this century happen to have been the rise of Pim Fortuyn, who did take the interests and ideals of our citizens seriously and by whom citizens did feel heard. Instead of recognizing that, Fortuyn was demonized by the political elite. His views and the ideals of his constituents were not to be heard. Criticism of Islam, multiculturalism, mass immigration, insecurity and the self-righteous politics of purple were portrayed as inhuman, racist, extreme right-wing, fascist and dangerous. Eventually, bullets made sure he could never be heard again. The regentesque government elite has learned nothing from this and has since then continued for almost twenty years with more mass immigration, more Islamisation, more EU, more tax burden, less care and less security. And now, with a dry eye, the cabinet proclaims that there is "a lack of representation of part of the population within the system."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u104	Like all of us, Mr Van Hattem is also concerned with what he wants to say in his speaking time. I understand he thinks the State Commission is a diversion. Nevertheless, a number of interesting proposals are being made. I can imagine that the PVV group also has an opinion on this. Should there or should there not be a corrective referendum, because we need to make meters? Should there be a return right from this Chamber to the other Chamber? Or should the First Chamber perhaps be abolished even further? Those are all things the PVV has an opinion on, right? So far, Mr Van Hattem has said things that I didn't think at any time: what do I hear now? No, I already knew that. You may repeat that, but I would appreciate it if Mr Van Hattem, whether it is a diversion or not, would say whether they are for or against the collective referendum that is coming, whether they are for or against the return right, whether they are for or against having a law on political parties, including the possibility of a party ban, and whether they are for or against constitutional review. It seems relevant to me to hear something new in such a debate, besides what I already knew, and to hear the position of the PVV on these subjects. I do not think that is too much to ask of a party that is large in the Lower House and in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u105	First of all, I would like to say that my speaking time went on during Mr Kox's interruption. I will reward Mr Kox's impatience by going into all these points in detail in a moment. You can assume that. Mr. Chairman. Instead of taking the rise of Fortuyn and thus the unheard-of citizens seriously, in those two decades there has been nothing but a shift of the clock. Mark Rutte was only just sitting on the Hague plush when he indicated in an interview that he hoped that purple would be possible again in the future. And indeed, the purple debris have returned with Rutte from almost never gone. Then the cabinet comes with a second thread: the vulnerability of the democratic rule of law. This is said "that the dangers to the democratic rule of law from outside the political system come from terrorism and undermining by criminal activities, but also from within the system anti-democratic forces, such as Salafist extremism and left-wing and right-wing extremists." If we are talking about recognizability, when does the cabinet finally dare to face the truth that the greatest threat is Islam? Why hide this with the term "salafistic extremism"? Salafism is Islam, with one and the same extremist Qur'an and the same extremist prophet Muhammad, who in Islamic ideology are the highest and unchangeable authority and who are intrinsically antidemocratic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u106	I'm gonna stop you right now, Mr. Van Hattem. You are almost halfway through your time, just like Mr Otten just now. I have heard you make a few links, including the referendum. You have announced that you will also be taking part in the referendum in your speech. You have done so as a result of an interruption by Mr Kox. I kindly ask you to do so now, because that is the subject. You're running it too wide right now. I have also interrupted another speaker for you. I'm doing the same thing to you now. I would therefore ask you to focus now on the Remkes report or at least to make a little more links to it. I'm sure you'll be able to do that, because that's how I know you. Mr. Otten still wants to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u107	Perhaps the PVV is still taking note of its contribution, but I was particularly interested in the thoughts of the PVV on the accession of new parties to the political system, on which the Remkes Committee also extended it. The PVV itself started as a division of the VVD; a bit similar to other parties in this Chamber. What do you think of electoral thresholds and access to the system? Are you in favour of raising the barriers to admit new parties? I am very interested in that, but perhaps Mr Van Hattem will come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u108	I will also reward Mr Otten's impatience; you can assume that. However, I would like to comment on the President's point of order. I base my points on the cabinet response given on the report. It quotes certain terms and makes certain statements. This is how we look at the reaction of the cabinet. It was also discussed in committee that the report and the cabinet response would be discussed in broad terms. That's what I'm doing here. I hope you can settle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u109	Not quite yet, because you announced, in response to Mr Kox's question, that you would focus more on that report. The request is to do so, because Mr Kox and I do miss the relationship at the moment. It's getting too wide. I'm sure you'll be able to focus a little more on the Remkes report now, including, of course, the cabinet response. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u110	The point is that I am not engaged in a book review of the Remkes report, but in the cabinet response. I will come to the various proposals in a moment, but I would add that they are more or less in the last part of my speech. So first I give a reflection on the cabinet response. I would like to say once again that my speaking time went on while you made your point of order. I will continue my speech. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is therefore stuck in some obligatory concerns about vulnerability. In the meantime, Islamization can advance in full gallop. For example, there is no question of closing a terrorist breeding ground such as the Al-Fourqaan Mosque in Eindhoven. On the contrary, a critical letter from former mayor Van Gijzel was simply passed through the shredder under the Rutte cabinet. Instead of tackling such mosques and combating the real danger of Islamisation, the cabinet intends to tackle democratically elected political parties. The new law on political parties, which the cabinet proposes in the package of measures, seriously interferes with democracy. Thus, with this law, the Cabinet states "to strengthen the legal status of political parties and to ensure their independence and freedom of action, albeit within the limits of what is legally and morally permissible." Who decides what's morally permissible? Moral is subjective and variable. O tempora, o mores; so time, so customary, Cicero already pronounced in the Roman Senate in 63 BC, but the cabinet now wants to determine what kind of parties the morality is. Does this mean that a government thought police of morals for political parties has to decide what's right? Otherwise, a party may be prohibited, in view of the also proposed party ban. Instead of protecting the democratic rule of law, it undermines it through moral arbitrariness. That is not a democracy, it is a 'deugocracy'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u111	A very brief question. I understand that Mr Van Hattem would have no objection to the creation and representation in the parliament of, for example, an Islamic party?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u112	That party is already present, at least in the Lower House. There a number of gentlemen of DENK manifest themselves as such. But there is another, much more fundamental question. I remember Minister Donner saying at the time: if the majority wants it, we should introduce Sharia. The point is that we should never want to get to that point. That is why we must ensure that mass immigration is tackled and that there can be no Islamic majority in the parliament that can introduce Sharia. That must be the basis for it, not an overall ban that can be applied to all parties, on possibly totally wrong grounds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u113	If this is the reasoning, then Mr Van Hattem cries crocodile tears when it comes to the freedom of one, which he takes just as nicely from the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u114	This observation is made by GroenLinks, but it is also about safeguarding our freedom. We don't do that by letting Islam in. Mr. Chairman. Especially in conjunction with the proposed measures on digital campaigning, it will be a very slippery slope. These measures refer to the approach to the dissemination of so-called disinformation. Specific reference is made to the EU Action Plan against Disinformation. Instead of genuinely defending our democratic rule of law by firmly combating this Eurocratic interference and restricting freedom of expression and news, this becomes part of the policy. With the EU censorship, political parties that turn against the EU, against Islam, against population and against climate madness, for example, are no longer sure of their survival. Expressions that are morally not desirable or do not pass through the europhile filter can be dismissed as disinformation and may form a basis for banning them as a political party. And is this so-called "independent supervisor" on issues such as politically sensitive issues such as the regulation of digital election campaigns and micro-targeting, as the cabinet states, not primarily a council of guardians of moral virtues? Is that the strengthening of the democratic rule of law envisaged by the Minister? I'd like a response. The category of measures in the report which the cabinet intends to implement directly involves adjusting the electoral system in order to achieve greater regional cohesion. This too is a farce. While the Cabinet is now full of this regional commitment, the Regional Energy Strategies, the RESs, are now being enforced in these regions because of the Climate Agreement. All municipalities, with the provinces as a stick behind the door, must be forced to point out where massive wind farms and solar fields can be built. The same applies to the approach to the natural gas-free neighbourhoods. The same government pressure has already been seen in the case of imposing asylum seekers' centres on the regions, and again in the case of regional immigration schemes and even more azc's. And we see it in the housing of status holders. No matter how long a waiting list for tenants is in a region, the cabinet continues to impose targets. So how serious is this connection to the cabinet region? What good is it for voters to boast about electoral circles, when such measures, which really affect citizens, are imposed on them at higher levels? What good is it for voters to talk about the impact of deliberative participation processes if, after civil participation in wind farms and azc's, everything is finally pushed through with or without support? Another show for the stage. In doing so, if the parties really want to give regional candidates the room, they can already take this into account when drawing up electoral lists. But that choice must be for the parties themselves and for their electorate and not for the government. The same applies to the list combinations. It was only in 2017 that the government abolished them and now it wants to make them possible again. What's in it for voters? Which voters have asked for that? Or has this been the result of a typical back-room lobby of party political interests, which should be tackled with the more democratic aim of these measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u115	I wanted to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u116	Mr President, my speaking time is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u117	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u118	I would like to ask Mr Van Hattem if there are any recommendations in the Remkes report which the Party for Freedom finds attractive. I've been counting them, it's 83. I have now heard a lot of things that are not really liked at least, but are there any who could help us to restore some balance to the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u119	There will be quite interesting actions, only I want to stay consistent and put that ball in the Lower House instead of taking a shot here in the Upper House. Nevertheless, there are some good ones. For example, the referendum; involving citizens more in politics is always fine, and we should always focus on that. There will be another point that I will go into in a moment, but that will follow in my speech. I'll owe you one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u120	On the one hand, I understand that Mr Van Hattem says "I'm putting that ball in the Lower House," but the first debate on the Remkes report has already been held in the Lower House. We have decided that there will be a debate on this too. Then, I think, it is appropriate for the government that either the PVV network has been properly picked up in the Lower House or it should be done here, because this is the opportunity for the PVV to move the points that are considered important to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u121	Sliding in with the minister is taking initiative, and taking initiative, is now typically in the Lower House as a directly elected parliament. That's why I'm a little careful not to take up this role here too strongly. Of course, we can exchange suggestions and ideas here, as we can clearly always ask for a referendum, but it is precisely that that is where the ball lies. That is why we now have a cabinet response, and that is why I particularly reflect on this cabinet response rather than on every point in the report. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to continue my argument. Even more ridiculous is the creation of higher thresholds for new parties. Here comes the monkey from the sleeve. This cabinet does not want to increase the involvement of unheard of voters, but rather to combat this as much as possible with tricks. By increasing the number of declarations of support, a bureaucratic monster is used against political renewal. Citizens are therefore obliged, in a short period of time, to come personally to the town hall, with limited office hours as opening time. They must also disclose their privacy there, by publicly supporting a party. By further raising that threshold, it is not the so-called fragmentation that is being countered, but the incumbent parties of power have a head start and a more comfortable position. For renewal there is as little space as possible. Then do not come up with fake measures such as civil fora and give citizens, through political parties, which are basically civil fora, ample opportunity to make themselves heard. Much less decisive is the cabinet in increasing the number of locations for polling stations, which were remarkably reduced in many municipalities at the Ukraine referendum. The cabinet only remains stuck in drawing the attention of municipalities to the importance of this. Why does the Minister not take concrete measures to increase the number of polling stations to promote turnout? The cabinet is also poking around about civic education. In this context, the Committee recommended making compulsory final examinations of history and state institutions. The cabinet does not want to do this, but wants to make "promoting active citizenship and social cohesion" mandatory for schools. What are we supposed to do with that? Indoctrination of students with multicultural dogmas, climate catechism, mandatory visits to a mosque, sacrificing Black Piet, acclaiming Europhilia and Trump bashen? History may not become a compulsory subject, but if it is given in the context of social cohesion, will it, above all, receive a curriculum with cultural relativistic history and national self-sustainment about slavery history? Is that what the cabinet intends to do with "citizen education and social cohesion"? Will we not then look away from the much more fundamental problem of social cohesion: the Islamization of education? What do Islamic schools contribute to social cohesion in Dutch society, when they focus on Mecca and thus stand with their backs to the Netherlands, with headscarves and burqas in class, with uncontrolled Islamic weekend schools and boarding schools, and with Islamized schools where no more lessons can be given about the holocaust? Is that social cohesion? Mr. Chairman. Then there are the proposals on the First Chamber. Once this First Chamber was established to keep the Belgian nobility especially satisfied. Since we were separated from Belgium in 1830, excuses have always been sought to demonstrate the added value of this Chamber. After almost two centuries, that still hasn't worked. In the letter, the cabinet states, and I quote: 'The potential added value of the First Chamber for the system as a whole is not sufficiently clear'. The cabinet then comes up with all sorts of tricks to give the First Chamber a better position. I call it return law and another way of electing First Chamber members. Going back to the situation before 1983 means that the First Chamber will be given even further away from the electorate. Why would the cabinet want to create a counterproductive effect than what this state committee was intended to do? The cabinet states: "The longer term term of the First Chamber members, their indirect election and the delayed passage of changes in the political power relations in the First Chamber are better suited to the role and position of the First Chamber as a chambre de réflexion. It can therefore no longer be the case that the Upper House as a whole has a more recent political mandate of the electorate than the Lower Chamber." If having a more recent political mandate than the House of Representatives is a problem, then the voter apparently needs change. To correct that, there is a much simpler solution: to dissolve the House of Representatives and to issue new elections. However, as PVV we propose a better solution: abolish the Upper House. For example, Thorbecke, as an architect of our state system, also provided for it in principle, as was rightly mentioned earlier. Our second parliamentary group has recently announced that it will shortly submit an initiative legislative proposal on this matter. We are therefore also tabling a motion to support the idea of abolishing the First Chamber as a First Chamber, so that all the emergency measures proposed by the Cabinet can be avoided. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the measures that the cabinet will not simply take over, or extend for itself until after the Lower House elections, towards a subsequent cabinet. It is particularly striking not to take up directly the proposal of the State Committee on the binding corrective referendum. D66 Minister Ollongren took the citizens' consultative corrective referendum with this cabinet. And now it turns out that in the end, under this cabinet, nothing will come back. We were presented with'something better', but when it comes down to it, the citizen has only been deprived of democratic participation. This sham must be punished quickly with the red pencil. Another proposal that the cabinet does not take up directly is the Constitutional Court, and that is a good thing, because it would give even more influence to activist justice. Nevertheless, the cabinet is considering other variants, including variants in which the judge does not issue a binding judgment, but gives an opinion to the legislator. That makes the judge even more political. Rather leave the Constitutional Court completely out of it. Furthermore, the cabinet intends to consider lowering the electoral age from 18 to 16 years. Can the Minister indicate whether young people aged 16, who are given adult responsibilities with the right to vote, will henceforth no longer be subject to juvenile criminal law but to adult criminal law, as will all other legal obligations and responsibilities associated with adulthood? Finally. The State Commission strongly calls on the legislator to take seriously the nature and extent of the social divide and the dangers that threaten our democratic rule of law both inside and outside the political system. In particular, let us mention these dangers, such as ignoring referendum results, abolishing referendums, excluding parties despite great electoral support, shady agreements, prosecuting a politician for his views, political appointments within an administrative regent class and increasingly transferring powers to unelected bureaucrats in Brussels. What should be taken up quickly and effectively is the return of our power from Brussels, a nexit, and the giving of real influence to our citizens through referenda. The main causes of social division are Islamization, mass immigration and the ruler elite. This country does not need such cowardly fake people's representatives, but real people's representatives, who keep their word and thus their election promises. That can't be solved by a state committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u122	Mr Van Hattem, would you not like to use the word "fake people's representatives"? That's offensive. I would ask you to continue this debate and not use that word again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u123	I just indicated that we don't need it. That can't be solved by a state committee. This is not a system issue, but above all a mentality problem. And the voter can solve that by voting them out. So far in the first term. I shall now table the motion, as announced. The President shall: Mr Van Hattem, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Van Strien, Mr Ton van Kesteren and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in response to the State Committee on Parliamentary System, the Cabinet made various proposals on the position and manner of election of the First Chamber;]] [[Whereas:]] [[that instead of the measures proposed by the Cabinet, it can also be used to abolish the First Chamber within the parliamentary system;]] [[that the Cabinet or the House of Representatives may submit proposals aimed at abolishing the First Chamber;]] [[Speaks from the commitment to support the abolition of the First Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-344320-N]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u124	I've heard several names coming by today, but my real name is Otten. I have a question for Mr Van Hattem. He says that the PVV Group is not in favour of a constitutional court. I have also mentioned this in my contribution, in particular the aspect of the direct functioning of international treaties in Dutch law, the monist system to which we also owe the Urgenda speech. How does the PVV Group feel about that? That does not go away, even if you do not have a constitutional court. How do you see that? I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u125	International conventions are a very different discussion. They should be reconsidered or we should get out. We entered the Marrakesh Pact last year to make the situation even worse. We are being harassed with the ECHR on all sides from Strasbourg. That affects our national sovereignty. The International Refugee Convention of 1953 is heavily outdated. It has been said for 20 years that it needs to be adapted and nothing is going to happen to it. Actually, they just have to endure on the shovel. If necessary, we can get out. Then we do not need a constitutional court to take these matters into account. We just have to go over our own laws without over- committing to such internationalist tendencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u126	A practical question, however. Like the PVV Group, we want good, solid representatives of the people, who stand for what they are going for. But in practice these treaties work through in the Dutch system and everyone can rely on them. How are you going to solve that in concrete terms? 'Cause that's not supposed to happen. I'm very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u127	I would like to summarize Mr Otten's question. To appeal to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u128	Let me give you an example. You were just talking about polling stations. I happened to have a court case myself against a municipality at the time, I believe in Brabant, to open up more polling stations to the referendum on the EU Association Treaty, when there were indeed far too few polling stations. Then Mr Van der Grinten, the home attorney of the Forum, who was also so opposed to the Environment Act but that aside, he won that by appealing to the UN Disability Convention, in which it was agreed that disabled people should have access to the polling stations. This works directly through in Dutch law. You can rely on that in court. You can say that we are not testing the Constitution, but there are a lot of treaties in which the Netherlands is a party. We will not agree with all the treaties, but there are a lot of them and they work directly to the citizen. How are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u129	I do not see what problem Mr Otten intends to solve with this. He has already taken it to court, at least at the time attorney Van der Grinten, to address, as I recall, the municipality of Son and Breugel. The point is that this is already possible within the existing system. Why set up an extra constitutional court to test that, when the structure of the Dutch Constitution was designed precisely to regulate matters in lower legislation? The Dutch Constitution is a very general constitution, which contains provisions that further matters can be dealt with in legislation. There is no need for this constitutional court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u130	Mr. Otten. Third and final.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u131	One final comment. The point is that the Constitution cannot be reviewed, but that the Treaties are above the Constitution. That's what we have in the Netherlands now. We do not think that is a desirable situation. That is why we have indicated that you need to switch to a mixed dualist system, as other countries do. Then you implement those treaties in your own legislation and then you can also be tested against the Constitution. I would like to give this suggestion to the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u132	Then you can do two things. You can say that we are setting up a very constitutional court to settle all this. You can also say that we are amending the Constitution to change the provision that international treaties go beyond our own laws. That can also be a solution direction. And, of course, you can also say that certain international treaties, which have too much to do with our national sovereignty, must be completely abolished. These are all solutions that you can choose, and you do not necessarily need such a constitutional court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u133	I would like to ask a question about the motion that has been tabled. The reading went a little fast and I hadn't seen her in advance. Can I ask Mr Van Hattem whether I understand correctly that he is presenting this motion to the Chamber and not to the Minister, so that the Minister does not have to judge it either?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u134	We're indeed putting her in the Chamber. We ask the Chamber to consider its position as First Chamber, whether we consider it desirable to continue. In the end, it will be up to the cabinet to take initiatives, as is stated in the recitals. The cabinet can take an initiative to abolish the First Chamber or the Second Chamber can take the initiative. If such an initiative is being examined, which we do not have the opportunity to do, it can involve the opinion we give as the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u135	It might get a little complicated. I'm trying to point it out. I have heard in Mr Van Hattem's speech that he says that the First Chamber should not take any initiatives. But we are now taking the initiative to say to others that if they take an initiative, the government can take that up. Then you're still not asking the government at the moment. Perhaps we should then note that the government should not be taking this motion at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u136	I'll leave it to the Minister himself if he needs to go on the motion. I'd like to give him all the space he needs. You have to look at it this way: it's kind of a statement of no objection. If there is a discussion in the Lower House, where the right of initiative lies, or if the cabinet makes a proposal to abolish the First Chamber, we as the First Chamber say: fine, get on with it. But we're not gonna declare in advance that we don't want that. In fact, we are sending out the message ourselves that there is no obstacle in our view to entering into this discussion. That's actually what the motion says. We can also just choose that approach. We are not necessarily bound by our own survival as a chamber in this system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u137	I understand that Mr Van Hattem has developed a number of courses of thought. We have to get out of international treaties, because we want to be our own boss. We must abolish the First Chamber, not merge, but abolish it. A constitutional court is no use to us. Well, it's possible. That's three opinions. It's possible. In that situation, therefore, we only have the House of Representatives. Suppose it passes a law that says the PVV is banned. I assume that Mr Van Hattem will think: I really have to do something about that. He cannot then appeal to the ECHR, which would give his party the right to organise himself, because that is what we are out of. He cannot call upon a constitutional court, which says: you can do so, but the Constitution states the right to freedom of association and assembly. And he cannot even appeal to the First Chamber, which says everything: this law is still in conflict with the Constitution; we have the task of doing something. It's gonna be really hard. Would Mr Van Hattem not think that this is a poor situation? We are talking about a ban on PVV, but it could also be about any other party. Don't we make our democracy a little narrow?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u138	There are plenty of examples of countries, countries in the world and countries around us, which do not have a so-called bicameral system, but which simply work with one Chamber, and where they can also deal with certain legislation in multiple rounds. There are plenty of ways to rig that up. I would also like to leave it to the Lower House, given its right of initiative, to come forward with proposals for this, or to assess proposals from the Cabinet. I deliberately do not want to anticipate that with this motion. We are only concerned with the signal that we as the First Chamber are not sitting here just to preserve ourselves, but that, as far as we are concerned, within the debate on the parliamentary system, we are talking today about room for the possible abolition of the First Chamber and that it will not necessarily continue. That's exactly what Thorbecke would have wanted. You just quoted him in a very nice speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u139	Well, if Thorbecke had to choose, I think he would have said: I think Kox's reasoning goes a little deeper than Van Hattem's reasoning. But I'm biased. I'm biased. I'm looking at the king. Martin Bosma said he's coming up with an initiative bill. I have just read through his argument. It actually says: I don't like it; we abolish it. That's okay, but I don't think that's convincing. Mr Van Hattem says that other countries also have a unicameral system. That is true, but does Mr Van Hattem know that they always have a constitutional court? I do not know of a country that has only one Chamber and no other possibility of appealing to the judge or anything else. I believe that parties should be consistent here. Mr Van Hattem has spoken. He says: from the ECHR, not a constitutional court, vacate the First Chamber. That leaves a House of Representatives who can decide by a simple majority to ban a party, or do whatever. The consequence is that there's nothing left. That is possible, but I would ask Mr Van Hattem to think about it in this in-depth debate. Doesn't it get very thin for his party? The delusion of the day can make such a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u140	Two things. One. In the current system, too, parties can already be banned through civil law. That has also happened in the past, so even without us having a constitutional court, there is that possibility. That guarantee is therefore not necessarily present in the current system. Two. It is, of course, dependent on the proposal that comes into the House of Representatives. That could be a cabinet proposal or an initiative proposal that my colleagues are going to submit across the street. You say I couldn't find anything about it. That is true, because there has only been an announcement in the parallel debate on this state committee by my colleague Bosma. He announced he'd come forward with an initiative bill. At the moment, I cannot comment on what exactly this initiative law is going to contain, because it is precisely up to the House of Representatives to do so. It will, of course, consider the balance it will make in the legislative proposal in order to settle such matters. It's just waiting to see what's coming. I cannot anticipate that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u141	Mr. Kox, I'd like to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u142	You can't anticipate anything, but you can think about it. Mr Van Hattem just said that you can also ban a party through civil law, but that is not what I was talking about. I was talking about this. Does the PVV want a structure in which we still have one chamber that is omnipotent, can decide everything and cannot be controlled in any way, either by the ECHR or by a constitutional court or by something like a First Chamber? Does he really want to go to such a system? I've never actually read that in the statements of the PVV. I must say that they are always on the short side, but I have never read this. It can have far-reaching consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u143	Just a brief answer and then we will continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u144	Now, Mr Kox, the whole motion is a bit out of line. In essence, the motion states the following. Solution directions are presented from the cabinet. Think about the return right and so on. These can be directions that are chosen. You will then change the system in such a way that the First Chamber will work with another system for the duration of the years and will continue to work. That is a solution, but you can also say that we do not take that measure and we choose to abolish the First Chamber. How that's gonna happen is up to the House of Representatives, like I said. Whether the story of the international treaties or a constitutional constitution comes to the fore is a second. Of course, that remains to be fully discussed, but it is essentially the next question. Are we going to choose these measures and say: we are going to go to six years, we are going to return to law and we are going to give the First Chamber a whole new position within the constitutional system? Or we just say: we can do without the Upper Chamber; we can go on like that without causing any major accidents. That is actually the very simple question that lies under this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u145	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u146	Thank you, Mr President. I must say that I found the PVV's motion rather oikophobic, while we are speaking in Greek, but all of this aside. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group is proud of our democratic rule of law. It is a unique system of power and counterpower, control, hear and hear. It is also a system in which any group can reasonably easily get a place in the parliament. I almost never agree with the PVV, but I am glad that the PVV can also have a place in this order. That makes the Dutch system so strong. We are proud of our system in which a government sets ombudsmen to criticise. We are proud of our system that protects minorities and in which the majority is satisfied, at least according to the SCP. But if you want to keep a treasured possession, you will have to maintain it regularly. The paint leaves after several years. A rooftop chapel for a bit more light and extra space for the teenagers might help to improve the atmosphere in the house. The kitchen doesn't seem to be the cozy place it used to be. The children sit on the couch looking at their screens. Then you need to renovate. That is the call of the Remkes Commission: our democratic rule of law is well established, but it is necessary to renovate it in order to stand as a sturdy house in the 21st century. The PvdA Group would like to thank the Remkes Committee warmly for its thorough work, the way in which the committee has answered the question of examining the functioning of our parliamentary system, and the very accessible written opinion. The Committee's website shows the conclusions with animations, so that everyone can know the essence of the report. This is an important conclusion of the report: there is a danger that people with low incomes and practical training will drop out of our democracy. My group believes that this opinion should not go into the deep drawer like previous opinions on our parliamentary system. It is an answer to a question from both chambers, and it is in our tradition that we are critical of ourselves. The analysis of the state of the democratic rule of law, the parliamentary system and social developments have convinced my group that a number of things really need to be changed if we are to remain in this country where we live in freedom and prosperity. Mr. Chairman. If we put the analysis alongside the Social Democratic Adagio'spreading of knowledge, income and power', there are developments that worry our group. Keeping things together is another ulyan pronunciation, which means you have to maintain yourself permanently, because society is constantly changing. A specific development concerns the PvdA Group, namely the development of the risk of losing practically trained people, young people, people with migration backgrounds, people with insecure jobs and low incomes. This means that their voices are not properly represented, that they do not participate in our democracy and do not communicate sufficiently in power. That means they don't have a chance to fit in. It cannot be that only people like us, with good training and income security, find the parliamentary system as it is now, 'well okay'. Something has to change. Often the counter question is: what is the problem, it is going well? The same remark was heard when there was a fight for women's right to vote. At the time, politicians opposed women's right to vote: it's going well, isn't it? But according to the PvdA it is not good if certain groups do not participate, feel estranged and threaten to drop out. The spread of power does not go well if certain groups do not feel represented, and, let's be honest, they do not feel that their voice does not matter if they are not interested in democracy at all. Does the Minister recognise this development that people have dropped out and that more people are threatening to drop out? That's what worries him? What is he going to do about bringing these people back into democracy? Let me take a little trip to another area of research: the world of industrial relations. Agnes Akkerman is a professor at Radboud University. She investigates the consequences of precarious work for political engagement with a team. In short, people with insecure contracts dare to be less empowered to their employer, logically of course, and have less confidence in the usefulness of political participation. We didn't know that yet, but Akkerman and her fellow researchers say that based on really extensive research. If you're punished for being mouthy or ignored at work, it means that you're going to divide the world into good and bad people, and into a we and a she. This also applies to people who are already struggling with major differences of power in society. They are therefore also more susceptible to populism, which divides the world into a we and a she. This is also apparent from Akkerman's research. The PvdA finds this extremely worrying, so that confidence in our institutions is reduced and that people who live in uncertainty are more likely to find autocrats and populism more attractive. The democratic rule of law should give them the certainty that their situation can be improved, that they are being listened to and that they have access to power. If that is not the case, the system must be improved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u147	I have a point of order, Mr President. I hear the PvdA making a whole argument about industrial relations. Now I give you every right to allow it. I think it would be fine if you did, but I have just been called upon and Mr Otten has been addressed very sharply earlier on what we have said. That would not fit within the context of the report. Now there is an argument about industrial relations, but there is nothing about that in the report. Why do you allow it and have we just been addressed very sharply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u148	I did allow it in the first half of your speaking time. Mrs. Vos is far from getting there. From the point of view of legality, therefore, I am certainly not going to intervene. Secondly, I hear Mrs Vos talk about the state of the rule of law and the relationship with democracy. That is the subject of the Remkes Committee, so I see no reason to intervene now. I assume that, like you, she will soon be landing on the individual measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u149	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I would also like to give Mrs Vos every opportunity to talk about this, but I do not think that double standards should be applied. So I'd like to keep my focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u150	Yeah, that's why I'm giving her the chance, like I did to you. Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u151	I do not know whether the Remkes Committee's report is also about populism. I do not think that this is so explicit, but Mrs Vos said a few things about it. And by the way, I found it interesting to hear about that. I'd like to question her on her description of populism. She just basically said that was a division into us-they-thinking. Now we are discussing a report on the foundations of the democratic rule of law. I understand the resistance to us-they-thinking not so well. We democrats are against the anti-democrats, aren't we? And we, defenders of the rule of law, are against the opponents of the rule of law, aren't we? That we-they-thinking seems inherent to me in the whole exercise we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u152	You are actually asking me two questions, firstly: what is the definition of populism? It is populism in our definition when you say at some point that you speak on behalf of the people. The people do not exist; there are a lot of different people, also in the Netherlands. That's a big part of my contribution. Us-she? I don't quite understand your question. I did not say that we are defending the rule of law. I'm assuming we all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u153	What I mean by my somewhat critical remark about our thinking is that I think it is inherent in the principles of the democratic rule of law that you always have to defend them against groups that want to undermine the democratic rule of law. Those are the "they." So there are all kinds of very good forms of us-they-thinking. The general rejection of us-they-thinking seems to me to be inconvenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u154	That's right. The Remkes Committee also says that, in order to protect our democratic rule of law, we must look out for left extremism, right extremism and religious extremism. It is right that that is a "she." But in general, saying "we, the people versus them," without knowing those people, is, in my opinion, the essence of populism. This is not about what we are talking about here, namely the protection of our democratic rule of law from elements that want to break down the democratic rule of law. That's a "she" that I think we both need to be pretty scared of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u155	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u156	I was just going back on that trip, which I believe supports the argument of the State Committee on Remkes, the State Committee on Parliamentary System. That research in another area supports that. So I think it was quite relevant to my argument. In any case, my next sentence was: back to the opinion of the Committee on Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Hattem. The State Commission proposes a number of measures to improve the representativeness and control of all voters. Three of them are quite robust: the reform of the electoral system, the binding corrective referendum and the chosen reformer. One of them was given an A by the government: the reform of the electoral system. And an "A" in this jargon means she's gonna take over the proposal. However, the government adds a number of ideas, as we read in the letter. Now it is unclear what exactly the government is going to take over. Can the Minister clarify the thinking process and perhaps also the new ideas? The elected reformer doesn't think the government's a good idea. That proposal was given a C'tje. However, the government is considering other measures to give the electorate more influence. We are, of course, very curious about the ideas that she has with regard to the Remkes committee, so we are curious about the ideas that the government and this committee have not come up with. The PvdA Group is looking forward to the government's view on the means of binding corrective referendum. According to the State Committee, this is a good way to complement representative democracy, with the emphasis on "completion" and to address major shortcomings. One is that a group of citizens withdraw because they see their interests too little represented. Research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has shown structural support for the referendum for many years, including practical training and lower income groups. In these groups 67% support the referendum. Speaking of referenda, however, it is important to make the most of the difference: referenda as a means of the people or as a means of the government. The Brexirefementum was an example of a false referendum, an instrument in the hands of those in power, top-down rather than bottom-up. The right form of a referendum is always an instrument in the hands of the citizens. The State Committee is talking about a binding corrective referendum. So that is an initiative from the people to reverse an passed bill. It happens sometimes that legislative proposals are adopted which only a small minority really wants. The state committee has reminded us of a beautiful Russian word: the Ostrogorski paradox. This means that the voter's voice will be weakened in successive translations between election campaign and government agreement. That happens in every country, by the way. In the Dutch system of coalition governments that effect is reinforced. According to the State Committee, this effect can be mitigated by allowing people to reverse a decision. The government has given this advice a B'tje. She's gonna think about it. If we are to be able to think through the advantages and disadvantages and the risks of this type of referendum, it will help if the government gives its opinion on this. When will the government share its thoughts with Parliament? Another observation by the State Commission concerns the threats to our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u157	Let me get this straight. The government is still hesitant, but can I conclude that the Labour Party, provided the proper modalities are found, is in favour of a binding corrective referendum? If that is the case, at least in this Chamber there seems to be a large majority in favour of it. This is an important signal for our friends across the street, who are now working on a legislative proposal on this issue. If there were no majority here, none of that would have worked. The Labour Party, if the modalities are well defined, is going to have a binding corrective referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u158	I cannot say that yet, because I am also committed to the 2017 election programme. But I do see that a lot has changed since 2017 and that the opinion of the state committee is there. Also given the concerns we have about people's withdrawal, you can rest assured that we are going to deal with the proposal with a great deal of interest and attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u159	That is about what Mr Dittrich also said. I've been in politics long enough to think: that's not so bad; that's going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u160	I was at the other observation of the State Commission on the threats to our democratic rule of law. Some threats still seem far away, for example, that in Poland the judiciary is slowly being stripped and politicised, that the free press has been restricted in Hungary, and that the Brexit referendum has been influenced by advanced electoral manipulation using illegally obtained human data. The Committee also mentions right-, left- and religious extremism and undermining by criminals as a threat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u161	I have heard Mrs Vos of the PvdA screaming several times towards the Brexirefementum, which was ultimately the democratic choice of the British electorate. You are now questioning the Brexireferendum, because there would have been manipulation via Internet influence et cetera. But remember that after that there was also an election, just a normal parliamentary election, in which the party who voted for the Brexitementum, for the Brexit, won convincingly. Isn't that just a confirmation that the Brexirefementum has indeed been the will of the electorate? Or does Mrs Vos of the PvdA no longer see the elections in England as democratic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u162	I find it very interesting to talk about what happened in England. As I have just said, the brexi-reflection is a false referendum for us, because it was used by the incumbent power as an ID. That's one. When you talk about referenda, you really have to make a difference between the types of referenda. I also saw that a majority of the population there after three years of talking about the Brexit thought "get with it" and that the slogan "Get Brexit done" also made it. But that doesn't mean anything about the criticism you may have on the form of the referendum. You may have seen that documentary about how voters have been manipulated. I insist that that is very worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u163	Documentaries are perhaps also propaganda tools in themselves to question the Brexit. There is often another political goal behind this. I would therefore like to hear from Mrs Vos: are you seriously questioning the genuine mandate given by the British electorate to leave that terrible European Union? Are you questioning the genuine will of the British electorate? Who are you to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u164	No, I'm not. I don't doubt that for a second. I am only critical of the way in which that referendum was organised and of the way in which electoral data was manipulated. But that the British want to get out, I've seen it too. That's just a fact. Then it's just a question of how that's gonna happen in the next few days and whether they're gonna get what they wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u165	Your third question, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u166	Then we actually come back to the essence of what it was about. You are talking about a 'wrong referendum', but a referendum is something in which the people are expressing their opinion. Whether it's a referendum offered by the incumbent power... That is a possibility; there are several ways to organise a referendum. But look at it at a very local level in the Netherlands. If a local authority wants to reorganise a local authority and hold a referendum on whether or not a reclassification should take place and whether or not it should join a local authority, do you think it is by definition a wrong referendum?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u167	No, those are indeed decisions that are fairly simple and can therefore be made. But I'd like to ask you a counter-question. Suppose this government also wrote a referendum on Europe. I would not be in favour of that, but what if they were going to do so and that, as many studies have shown, a majority of Dutch people are for Europe and would like to stay in the European Union? What do you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u168	We have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u169	Very briefly, Mr Van Hattem, and I would like to ask Mrs Vos to continue her contribution. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u170	Of course, Mr. Chairman. For example, we had a referendum on the European Constitution. At that time, a majority clearly said 'no, we do not want a European constitution', and that was not expected in advance either. You are already speaking a little bit about 'Europe' rather than 'the EU'. For the EU institutions, a lot less people are really warm, perhaps Mr Timmermans, your party mate, but for the rest there are very few people who are really excited about it. It is just what question is being put to the Dutch people in such a referendum. Maybe they say 'yes, fine' about Europe as a continent, but when we really talk about European bureaucracy and the Eurocracy, there is much less enthusiasm. We saw this in 2005 in a referendum which unfortunately was ignored by the government at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u171	Mrs Vos continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u172	We cannot allow ourselves to drift away from Europe. It can't be. But for the EU too, I believe that there is still strong support among the Dutch population. We were talking about the threats. Other threats to the democratic rule of law may be developments in information technology. Anyone who has seen a number of episodes of the series Black Mirror gets a bit of a feel for those horror scenarios where technology is used to control and manipulate us. This seems far away, but the committee is concerned and believes that political parties should become transparent about the use of data and algorithms. The new law on political parties should be a guarantee against such threats. The PvdA Group would like to discuss this new law, and is therefore curious when the government will send it to the Chamber. Can the Minister give us a ruling on that? Mr. Chairman. In a discussion with the Committee on Home Affairs, Mr Remkes sighed at the question of whether he also found the government to be so slow to react, that Parliament itself was in a hurry and, as far as he was concerned, did not have to wait for a cabinet response. The House of Representatives may, using its right of initiative, draw up all proposals which require legislative changes. But we all know how intense such a trajectory is. Mr Van Raak knows all about this. We can expect a serious commitment from the government on such important advice. However, my group does not have the impression that the government has identified the drafting of the opinions as a top priority, but the government has to correct me if I am wrong. If we want to keep the momentum, the PvdA Group believes that even before the end of this cabinet period, let us start from March 2021, at least the seven main proposals of the committee should be worked out, so that both chambers can hold leading debates on this issue. Some proposals require a constitutional change in two readings. If these proposals were not dealt with by both Chambers before the next elections in March 2021, these proposals will be put very far behind schedule. What proposals the government wants to put forward require this constitutional change? And can these proposals be dealt with before the March 2021 elections? Is the government prepared to say that before this year's Mayece, 2020, it will work out the items in category B that have not yet been worked out and will send the proposals it will adopt in the form of a legislative proposal to the Chamber? The government has indicated that it is not taking over the opinion on the chosen formatter, but that it is looking at alternatives that give citizens more influence over the formation process. Of course, we're curious about that. We would like to debate these proposals. Finally, Mr President. Our democracy and our rule of law are the ground on which Dutch society is built. Let's cherish and maintain them. Doing nothing, 101 years after the introduction of the universal right to vote, and getting the whole thing printed off is not an option as far as the PvdA is concerned. The PvdA Group calls on the government to draw up the opinions of the State Commission in the year that it remains and, if a constitutional change is needed, to send the legislative proposals to the Chamber this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. At the request of the Minister, I shall suspend the debate for two minutes, i.e. until 4:56 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u174	I give the floor to Mr Schalk. No, Mr. Otten first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u175	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order, because I was just in contact with one of the clerks during the suspension on Rule 94 of the Rules of Procedure, which you mentioned to me. In my opinion, the possibility of taking the floor is only mentioned in paragraph 2: 'when a Member uses insulting expressions, or disturbs order'. That was out of the question. I would therefore ask that, provided, of course, there are no insults and disorderly measures, everyone should be able to use their constitutional right to say what they have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u176	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I read in Rule 94 (3) that if the speaker does not make use of the possibility and continues to act in a manner as described in the previous paragraphs, then paragraphs 1 or 2 may deprive the President of the floor. He does not have to do that, and I did not do that, but that goes back to both paragraph 1, which is different from the subject of the debate, and paragraph 2. Is that the answer to your question? Yeah? Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u177	Mr President, in the hope that you will not correct me in my first sentence: today we are talking about the climate. Not about the hot January month, so the daffodils in my hometown have been blooming for a few weeks, but about the chilling in the social climate. About the gnawing feeling of people that they no longer have control over their land, their lives and their future. Why is that and what is our answer? Those are the questions we're facing today. Because something is fundamentally changing. The Remkes State Commission has explained the trends: population growth, increased prosperity, greater ethnic heterogeneity, massive entry of women into the labour market, reduced significance of ideological differences and religion, farewell to the hidden society, increasing significance of identity, internationalisation and digitalisation. What a line! And there is more to that: all kinds of developments that do something to us. They all affect our society and therefore our parliamentary system. Depending on our preferences, we either rub our hands together or put our hands in the hair. What is for one progress means for the other loss of values and standards. My party, the SGP, already indicates in its naming the preferences: Politically and Reformed. Those are the key words for our party. Let me explain what is put into words from the principles. First of all, a confession: God the Lord reigns. And, God has given us a government for good. The government we see as a servant of God, given to prevent chaos and anarchy. In a democratic rule of law, this approach is crucial. Without the rule of law, no democracy, and without democracy, no rule of law. This means that we have to deal very carefully with the democratic rule of law. The State Committee also stresses this. The name of the report speaks volumes. Low thresholds, certainly, to let the salt water through, they write themselves. In other words, to allow the influences of time on the system to work. But also high dikes, in order to protect that same rule of law, a democratic rule of law originating in the Act of Liberation, well ahead of 1648, from 1581: a declaration of independence in response to the tyranny of the king of Hispanje. Unfortunately, our country has sighed more often under tyranny. It is not for nothing that there is a half empty shelf in this House's Chamber of Action, which reminds us that for five years there was no democratic rule of law, but domination. This year we celebrate 75 years of liberation. With this we also celebrate 75 years of continuous democracy in the Netherlands, something to be thankful for, something to preserve and guard. In this light, my group is looking at the report of the parliamentary system committee, and also at the first part of the cabinet response to it. Of course, we look forward to the second part. Can the Minister indicate when that second part is expected? And can he also indicate why it took so long? Mr. Chairman. The state committee has laid down a very complete story: the values of the democratic rule of law, the parliamentary system, the interpretation of social reality, living democracy through all possible forms of citizen and parliament participation. Compliments for that! It is not only a clear overview, but it also clearly shows how things work and where the shoe may wring. This leads to conclusions and recommendations. For us now it is the art to see what to do with it, but also what not to do, such as selective shopping. Many in this Chamber were at least uncomfortablely surprised when, just after the elections of the Provincial States and then of the First Chamber, a law was given in consultation that would bring the election of the First Chamber back to the last century, namely 1983. My group could not escape the impression that this had to be seen as some sort of anti-Forum Act: a sudden rise of a new party, which became the second largest in the First Chamber. Maybe it's symptomatic? I'll ask the Minister. Something's happening in society. The government is actually tackling this problem technocratically. My question to the Minister is: why does the government choose this route? Does the Minister agree with my group that it is actually half-snatching a powerful signal from the citizen? Mr. Chairman. In any event, the SGP was not in favour of filing and handling that bill before a thorough discussion of the Remkes report would have taken place. That is why the Schalk motion has been tabled, which is also under discussion today and which, of course, I should like to comment on. I know there is a lot to say about it under state law, but that motion was nevertheless supported by more than two thirds of the members of the First Chamber. How does the government indicate this powerful signal? I would like to thank the Minister and the Government for, at least in part, acting on the operative part of that motion, which called for the legislative process to be stopped until there was a debate on the report. Moreover, the motion left room for the suspension of the internet consultation and of the consultation that took place at the time among the Provincial States members. Can the Minister promise that the two consultations will also become clear to this Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The Schalk motion would not really have been necessary if the government had acted on its own words in the first part of the cabinet response, on a differentiated approach. I quote: "The cabinet's commitment is to take concrete steps in the current cabinet period on the path of this modernisation. At the same time, the cabinet also attaches great care to this process. In this context, the intention is to continue to engage in dialogue with society and directly involved on this agenda precisely when the proposals are further developed." Can the Minister indicate how a step back to 1983 is in line with modernisation? How does the government view the consequences for small parties? How does the Minister indicate the legislative process in the light of the commitment of care in the process and dialogue with society and stakeholders? In what way does the government, in general terms, intend to engage in dialogue with those concerned on issues addressed by the State Commission? Mr. Chairman. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that it is important to make choices from the revenues of the State Committee. In the summary of the report Low thresholds, high dikes, 36 recommendations for improving democracy, 23 recommendations to strengthen democratic rule of law and 24 recommendations to strengthen parliament, i.e. 83 recommendations. It's impossible to discuss them all in a short space of time. The state committee has formulated a top seven. Can the Minister indicate which parts of this top seven fit in with what the government intends to do? In what way does the government intend, in conjunction with both chambers, to arrive at targeted choices from these 83 recommendations in the future? Mr. Chairman. My group also wants to put its own hands into action today. An important element of the work of the First Chamber is the constitutional review and monitoring of the Constitution. The Constitution has more to do with high dikes than with low thresholds. However, practice teaches that party politics and/or the coalition agreement occasionally prevail over the constitutional requirements to uphold the Constitution. I can just mention a few examples where, despite all the warnings from the Council of State, the Constitution was pushed aside. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is directed at the Minister, but I would like to draw this lesson for the First Chamber: let us think explicitly about the task of the First Chamber in relation to constitutional review. I want to come back to that next week at the College of Seniors. If we go down that route of constitutional review or a constitutional court, then at least it will be years away, even if we all want to do so today. I would like to hear the views of other groups on this matter and I would suggest that a committee, perhaps temporary, should be set up to deal with this particular problem. A second option is to involve the House of Representatives because it is an issue for the entire Parliament, as the Remkes report has us. A third option would be to do something about how we deal with our Constitution, democracy and the rule of law in line with the agreements on integrity, i.e. regular alignment in the College of Seniors or in an annual debate on integrity. But this debate must go beyond mere reflection on the state committee, the action of the government and perhaps also reflection on our own actions. After all, the sore spot of the inadequate substantive representation has been put on the finger. The state committee strongly links this to the division in society. In this chambre de réflexion a deeper explanation fits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u178	I'm a little late with my interruption, because what you suggested about a committee had to go down. That committee would then look at the subject of constitutional review, I understand. Does Mr Schalk say that we as the Lower House and the Upper House should do our work better and that we should all discuss how we should do it, pending a constitutional court or any other way of constitutional review? Is that the committee's commitment you're proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u179	Thank you for this beautiful question, because I am indeed thinking about it. Of course, we can say to each other today: boys, we have to... No, sorry, we say, of course, honourable Members of the States General, we must ensure that we uphold the Constitution. I haven't had very long experience in this Chamber, almost five years, but I've noticed a number of times that for party political reasons or because there's something in a government agreement, there's an explicit opinion from the Council of State being pushed aside. Those are choices we seem to be carrying together. I'm looking for a way we could talk to each other about that. How can we ensure that we move that constitutional framework very easily when it suits us? After all, the Dutch citizen must be able to rely on us as the First Chamber, as the last gremium that looks at a law, to guard the Constitution. That could happen with a committee, but 'committee' sounds very heavy right away. It may also be a working group or a method. That's why I suggested it here. I'm looking for a way that we can regularly check if we're actually doing it right. That there may be a constitutional court or whatever in the future is up to that point; that will come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u180	In fact, you will find that there is a gap in the legal protection of the citizen, because it cannot allow the law to be judged by the Dutch judge on the basis of the Constitution. In your story, Parliament is not doing its job very well either, so to speak. Isn't that actually a plea to allow constitutional review?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u181	It is not only my conclusion that we are not fully doing our job in this respect. This is also an explicit conclusion which can be found in the report of the Remkes Committee. That means that constitutional review might help. I'd like to think about that in depth. But until we do, as the First Chamber, we must also guard our stability in the role, precisely at this point, because it is really about the constitutional anchoring of the rights of our citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u182	I can't tell you how happy I am with these words. It's really taken from my heart. At the same time, we must think: how concrete can we make this? Mr Schalk is right to say that there is a risk that we will do something different for party political or coalition reasons. Let me give you a concrete example. A few years ago, we had the bill here about a partial ban on facial clothing. In the meantime, that has become a law. The Council of State then gave an unmistakable opinion on constitutionality and constitutionality. Exactly at that point, all kinds of choices have been made and the law has been passed by a majority, despite that advice. My question to Mr Schalk is: what else is needed to make us do our job properly? How does he reflect on that looking back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u183	I thank Mr Ganzevoort for this example. I had two other examples in mind myself. The first example is the cooperation school. We even asked the Council of State for additional information at the time. The Council of State was devastating again, but this Chamber chose differently. The second example I had in mind was the appointment of mayors and Commissioners of the King. That was really not recommended, but this Chamber did something different on the basis of the coalition agreement. Then you come to the crucial question: what else should this Chamber do? Maybe we should start talking to each other about that. I understand that this is sometimes very complicated during a debate. We try to do it there, but apparently there are party political reasons why someone finally agrees with a bill. But is it done with that, or can we also have a mirror in front of us by examining with a committee how we should have dealt with it and see if it is true? What do we do with this for the citizen who is also looking at the Chamber and thinks: if it suits them, they do not care what is in the Constitution, but at other times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u184	I am also pleased with these examples. Mr Schalk knows that, as a group, we were in favour of the law on cooperation schools, but that we voted against it because of precisely this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u185	That's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u186	We did that precisely because we felt that the Constitution should be decisive. If you want to settle things differently and disagree with the Constitution on that point, you need to amend the Constitution. That's the line we wanted to follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u187	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u188	The tricky thing is that it listens most closely to the fundamental rights of citizens. There are things in the Constitution where, for once, perhaps, some water might come from, but that does not apply to the fundamental rights of citizens. So I do not know whether a general discussion on the need to do more will help. That is a kind of general guilt in the church where you say: we have all sinned, let's not do it anymore. These are concrete discussions and concrete proposals. Yes, I speak to Mr Schalk in a language he knows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u189	Yeah, that's not bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u190	It is therefore a question of concrete proposals, because it really must be done. If we don't listen, we won't get there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u191	I understand that. I recognize the example of cooperation schools. I know that's what GroenLinks said. My group said, precisely on the basis of the freedom of education in Article 23, that it did not fit, as the Council of State pointed out. Perhaps the three proposals I have just mentioned are still too small. A fourth proposal, which I hardly dared to do, but which I will mention now, is perhaps that we are addressing each other in a debate if there are real terms of constitutional review. During a debate, perhaps we should have the courage to say to each other that we are going to have it tested extra if it is such an important question. We don't come across that very often, but why shouldn't we? I do not know whether the Rules of Procedure allow this; I am, of course, looking immediately at the President and the Registrar, because they will undoubtedly be able to find out. Are there any options that might allow us to make a pass on the spot? Sometimes it happens on very different grounds. Today, for example, a vote has been postponed for a week on very different grounds. Should this not be possible on the basis of constitutional freedoms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u192	We shall adopt the Rules of Procedure ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u193	A very small question to Mr Schalk. I found Mr Ganzevoort's question about the ban on facial clothing very interesting. I know the SGP has a long tradition of religious thinking. So it's actually a matter on which you might have a judgment. My question is this. If something has been discussed in detail both in the Lower House and in the Upper House, how would a few members of the Council of State put you at a different level? I'm really asking myself that. I honestly cannot imagine that is the case. I myself am inclined to think of the following. If you've weighed all the arguments, isn't that typical of what the last word might sound like? You don't need an opinion from the Council of State anymore, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u194	That is a very interesting question from Mr Cliteur, but of course he did not experience that history a few years ago. And that's exactly the point. With regard to all the examples that Mr Ganzevoort and I have mentioned, the Council of State has made a clear assessment. Then there is a lot of things happening in the House of Representatives, no doubt in a very careful and good way. Some amendments are also added which sometimes have a significant impact on the final outcome of that legislative proposal. Then it is not wrong at all to ask the Council of State once again for an opinion. Suppose you find out during such a debate that something is very solid and solid. Well, then let's have the courage to say we're parking that law for a second, because we really want to hear it all again if we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u195	I think it is right for Mr Schalk to say that we should think about how we deal with these matters. To do so during a debate on a legislative proposal: I am also a pious person, but I do not believe in that, because that is not going to work. I think we should do that in advance. Certainly thanks to the proposals of the state committee and also because the government has nothing yet, I think that we as a parliament should consider what is the connection between a number of proposals. I have just said to Mr Van Hattem: you can say this, but then this and that are the consequences. Of course I did that a bit to tease, but also because I think it is. That goes for you here, too. We say here that we are the guardian of the Constitution, but that is not in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u196	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u197	And when we stand before the President, we pledge allegiance to the Constitution and the laws of the country. That Constitution states that we can make any law we want here, even if it is 100% contrary to the Constitution, and I also mention the prohibition of scrutiny. So if we're gonna talk about things like this, we're gonna have to try to see things in conjunction. When you introduce constitutional review, you know that there will always be that possibility. Whether you want to and whether you need the First Chamber or a Chamber with a right of veto or not, at least I would be very much in favour of it as a result of Mr Schalk's appeal to ask us why we are not going to form a committee, a group or whatever you call it, which will determine what the consequence will be, in the sense of: if you do one, do you have to do the other, or should you leave it? This is also in order to be able to react in a coherent manner when the Minister for the Interior comes up with an extremely coherent vision on the part of the cabinet and we therefore have an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u198	Not only did I pledge allegiance to the Constitution, I even swore an oath to it. I called on my good God to help me with that. So it weighs extremely heavy. So that review weighs heavily, too. One of the proposals is a committee. I would like to table a motion on it tonight, if we need to, but we can also agree to reschedule it next week in the conversation with the College of Seniors, to see if we think this is a serious point and then let a committee think about how we can do it. I can see that the word 'committee' brings Mr Kox right up; that must of course be a 'committee'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u199	True to the Constitution but also to the laws of the country. Parliament can make any law it thinks of, and you can't call on the Constitution. So we need to see that in that connection. The prohibition of scrutiny, constitutional review, the position of the First Chamber, as a chamber of reflection, may also be asked of us to think carefully about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u200	I couldn't agree more. That is what must be done in this context. During an intensive and interesting debate on any legislative proposal, it becomes very complicated, because the President will undoubtedly say: stick to the point. In fact, we have done this very badly in this debate. My self-reflection leads to a proposal, which I am now putting down at the Bureau, in order to consider how we can better anchor what, among other things, the Remkes State Commission points out to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u201	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about the division in society and that in this chambre the reflexion fits a deeper interpretation. It goes wrong with the sense of representation as long as the government rules, without listening to signals from society. It goes wrong with representation when parliament is dealing with itself; think of the integrity of us as MPs. It goes wrong when the empathic capacity of ministers or secretaries of state is smothered in bureaucracy; I am thinking of black-painted texts of citizens standing in the cold. It goes wrong when the cement crumbles in society. And without wanting to be nostalgic or impose a spiritual compulsion, but this state committee also puts the finger on the depilation and devertification. In doing so, apart from serving God dependently, the shared values also crumble. And anyone who's ever scribbled on an old wall knows that that's how the stones get loose from each other. This leads to individualisation, more serious, to bitter loneliness. What's our answer to that? In what way will the government, as well as the parliament, also this First Chamber, receive the signals and actually turn them into policies that have been adopted? Mr. Chairman. I started with the climate. Well, the earth may be warming up, the daffodils were blooming early, but the social climate is chilling. Hot heads, but cold hearts. The interlinkage is shriveling. Our democratic rule of law is under pressure when we, people, turn away from each other. It is fine if we take a number of measures from the State Committee on, for example, political parties, more careful handling of decentralisation, more critical approach to European decision-making, explicit attention to constitutional matters and so on, but let us bear in mind that the human dimension is not achieved by a different electoral system, by a modified Constitution or by a stronger parliament, but by the gifts mentioned in one of the unprecedented beautiful books Paul wrote. I'm sure you know them. It's about gifts like mercy, love, peace, longsuffering or patience, goodness. In other words, really have an eye for the other. In the debate with Mr Kox we talked about a cultural change. That's what it's about. If these gifts adorn us, it will warm society. This will create a real relationship, and it will serve our democratic rule of law the most! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u203	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u204	Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are taking ample time for this debate today. Some will perhaps say: very much the time. But that is good because the attention to the state committee's report has so far been somewhat fragmented. That is not so much because of the content of the report. Our appreciation for this, especially when you consider that the motion on which it is based in this Chamber is the first to be signed by the VVD Group. I would like to mention two points of appreciation, and I would like to make a comment. Appreciate a very thorough analysis of the changed demographic and social environment in which the parliamentary system operates. I think that relationship has been established in all the speeches so far. What I also like is that every recommendation takes a look at whether this is indeed the solution to the problem. Often we stay in the solutions, without doing that feedback. If I may express a word of criticism, or if I may make a small comment, that is the large number of recommendations. Those 83 have come through here on a regular basis. Even when you're working on it quite intensively, you lose the overview and the interlinkage is lost. The government does contribute somewhat to this by reacting somewhat fragmentedly in its initial response and, as has already been pointed out, bringing proposals to procedure different from the report, but it also devotes limited attention to solutions to problems that may have been identified, but which are outside the parliamentary system. I understand that different views of coalition parties are based on the fact that there is no second reaction from the cabinet. I agree with those who ask when there will be a next response, which was announced for December. Not taking an explicit position is also a response that will help us. More important than the timetable that the Minister may be giving, is the fact that the Minister is losing a bit of control over the whole. This also emerged in various contributions. This leads to an initiative proposal on the binding corrective referendum. I have just heard talk about the position of the First Chamber, but that too is happening fragmentedly and not in the context that the report is trying to indicate. I also noticed that the House of Representatives, as a VVD-group, we find that the Second Chamber has always been dealt with first and does not really take up the direction and actually in December gave itself little time for an AO on this subject. In any case, it gives us a chance to distinguish ourselves on this point. The Lower House didn't go much further than shopping. From these 83 recommendations I also have to shop selectively, but I do not think that the things I mention are fundamentally different from the lines of the Remkes Committee or the government. Mr Cliteur already pointed out that the title might require some thought: low thresholds, high dikes. I think the title is a good choice. Low thresholds: the substantive representation. High dikes: increase the resilience of the rule of law. I will walk past those pillars, but I would like to add a third dimension in a moment, namely the current political electoral image against which you have to consider proposals. First, the low thresholds. You get all gloomy when you hear all this. There is indeed enough to improve, but I myself always hold on to the plus points. I was pleased with the Democracy Index 2019 in The Economist, where among other things is scored on election and pluralism and political participation. That's where we scored a very nice position. Not everything is negative, but the analysis by the Remkes Committee highlights an important point, namely the persistent differences in our society which not only go through the socio-economic dimension, which may have been the case in the past, but also educational level, migration background and regional component are involved in these differences. It is important that people feel that they no longer have control over their own lives. Then they will also drop out of the democratic system. Perhaps we should look for a solution not in the democratic system, but rather at the points where we are failing. I liked the fact that the committee described the participatory paradox, because in trying to involve citizens better, you reach the citizens who are already active. I found the idea of the youth parliament that the cabinet is going through, such an example. In fact, you're projecting the solution, like how we communicate here with each other, to a new generation that communicates very differently with each other. The people who will be sitting here in 20 years' time may be involved. Maybe we should take a different look at that. I know I'm dealing with the chairman, but when you say that people need to be better involved in society, you're also outside the scope of the Remkes report. Then maybe you should think of other ways to get these people involved. Back to the report. I would like to take out two measures within this pillar that lie within the democratic system. The first is the reconnaissance that the cabinet is doing, such an A proposal as Mrs Vos indicated, the exploration to increase the possibilities for individual candidates to choose more on their own. The regional component also pays attention to this. My group is in principle open to this type of proposal, but I would like to specify a limit, because the function of MP is also a craftsman. Recognizability is one of the qualities, but not the only one. Such a preferred voice should not weigh too heavily. People not only vote for candidates, but also for a political party. Political parties tend to pay attention to skills and regional distribution in their recruitment lists. Then it is indeed a bit of a paradox that most political parties are decreasing in size at the moment, while they have a very important role to play in maintaining the democratic system. The Forum for Democracy rightly pointed out in the committee that since then it has also been extensive in the publicity that they are the exception. We will continue to monitor their development closely in the coming years. Before I come to a further proposal within this pillar, I would first like to explore the current political electoral image on behalf of my group. The polarization of the 1970s seems to be back. The volatility of the electorate has increased. Political fragmentation is also increasing. In a subsequent cabinet formation, perhaps five parties are needed for a majority. Several municipalities already have to deal with this. That means a lot of compromises. My group chairman has already mentioned in the General Political Affairs Committee the consequences for the feasibility of legislation if too many compromises have been built on each other. In addition to majority voting, democracy also means that there is attention and respect for minority positions. Individual freedoms and rights should be protected. Parliament should assess individual proposals not only on their merits, but also on the basis of wishes in other policy areas and on the implications for future generations. The latter is certainly important at this time, when we are faced with a number of long-term issues that will affect future generations in particular. I refer to climate change and demographic developments, which in turn have consequences for affordability and care, old age provision and the functioning of the labour market and the housing market. The renewal of our instruments in the parliamentary system must, above all, be mirrored against this reality, according to my group. In this context, our group is very reluctant to make proposals in which digital choices are 'digital' in the spirit of yes or no which, in our view, strengthen polarisation. With all due respect for the careful manner in which the State Commission has come to the recommendation to introduce a binding corrective referendum................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That won't be a surprise. This attitude can also be expected with regard to the Van Raak initiative proposal if it reaches this Chamber. Last week I read the very readingable opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State on this initiative proposal. There is a fine reflection on consensus and majority democracy. In my group's view, the first form is needed. This form is not in keeping with the instrument of referendum. Mr. Chairman. These were two proposals in the low-threshold block. I do not go through all the recommendations, but let me conclude by saying that if you establish a relationship between solution and problem, my group is particularly fond of structural solutions to involve citizens more than occasional interventions. With increasing involvement, not only at project level, but also structurally through e.g. digital citizen panels, municipalities already have a lot of experience. During the debate on the Environment Act last week, the theme of participation was extremely important. I think there are opportunities to improve it all. Then I'll get to the high dykes. In addition to the democratic pillar, the legal pillar also receives a great deal of attention in the report. I am not going to go into this in detail, because we are going to have a debate on the state of the rule of law in some time, and my group will perhaps discuss arguments that have been exchanged here today. The Committee rightly notes that tensions between democracy and the rule of law can arise if legalisation acts or if a judicial ruling removes issues from political considerations. The VVD therefore supports, for example, the proposal to amend the procedure for the appointment of members of the Supreme Court in such a way that party political considerations do not prevail. Among experts, both here and in society, there has recently been a lively discussion about the trias politician, the separation of powers. The support of the rule of law requires clear division of roles between the different powers. Should a court ruling surprise us, it seems to me appropriate, from our responsibility, to look in particular at the quality of the legislation on which the judge bases the judgment. We must pay particular attention to our own position. It is interesting in this context that a round table on this subject will soon be organised by the House of Representatives. We will follow that discussion with interest. In the context of today's debate, this theme is relevant to the proposals for the review of formal laws to the classical fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution by a new constitutional court. There are good arguments for improving the legal protection of citizens, a more central position of the Constitution, strengthening the national legal order vis-à-vis the European and international legal order. In its first reaction, the cabinet sets out precisely the reasons why my group is rather reluctant to carry out such a constitutional review, in whatever form: distortion of the balance between state powers, increasing the influence of the judge on the political process and the danger of politicisation of the judiciary. Mr Ganzevoort already indicated whether you would like to respond to the question as to why you wrote down these arguments. I have the impression he weighs them a little less than I do. I'd like to hear your response. When we reach a proposal in this form, we are very interested in the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State on this part, because it is going to be very crowded on the playing field. Mr Schalk said: if anything comes, it will take a while. Shouldn't we be looking at ourselves sooner? I think that the College of Seniors, which is going to talk about our functioning in any case next week, is a good platform for that. In our group, we can talk about it first next week. On my own behalf, I can say that it is always good to address each other on these matters. At the moment, I am rather reluctant to look at institutional solutions. Then I come to the last block, the First Chamber, our own position. We appreciate the fact that the government sees a valuable role for the Senate, particularly in protecting the democratic rule of law and its underlying values. It is useful to have the debate on how best to achieve this added value of the Senate. As far as we are concerned, this means, for example, depoliticisation of the Senate. In the exchange of views around the Schalk motion on the method of election of the First Chamber, terms such as "courtesy" were used to indicate that the Senate should be the first to discuss this before proceedings are initiated by others. We have voted against this motion, and you will not have missed it. This was partly for procedural reasons, because we do not think that we should tell others how to do their job. We can also say something about it in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u205	I very much appreciate that we hear clearly and clearly what the position of the VVD is on a number of points. That is important in this debate. Now I hear Mr Meijer say that he is in favour of the depoliticisation of the First Chamber. With my very limited knowledge of the Constitution, I wonder what that is based on. We are not here because we know something, or perhaps we are, but because we have been put here by a political party. What is the depoliticisation of the First Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u206	I think I have taken the floor from the report and/or the cabinet response. If this is not the case, I mean above all that we should not be doing the work of the House of Representatives about this. We're here to have added value. The political dimension should not prevail. As you pointed out just now in the interrupting debate, sometimes for political reasons, an opinion from the Council of State is being overruled here. That doesn't escape me either. You can do your best to have added value and not a repeat value. This can also be done next week during the discussion of the functioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u207	Not to be teased, but to be clear: I am now in this Chamber for about seventeen years and in the end it is always political decisions that are being made here. Everyone knows that, too. In there we can still do some useful work, I think. If the spokesperson for the largest group in this Chamber is now saying that we must ensure depoliticisation, I do not understand. I want to know what that means. Does that mean that we won't pass a law if we find that a law is raging, even though we do support the government? Do we then use the absolute right of veto of this Chamber? We could do that, but in the last 17 years we've never done that, unless it's really been a total mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u208	I repeat what I have already said. I would like to distance myself from the word 'depoliticisation'. I am trying to say that I know that we have a political background here, but let us above all have an input, as we did during the debate on the opinions of the Council of State. Let us consider this very seriously when we deviate from it. Let us appeal to each other that you not only let me put it this way, but also take the political angle, but also other points of view. That's what I meant to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u209	I welcome Mr Meijer's clarification in reply to Mr Kox's questions on whether or not to depoliticise. If you're not allowed to do politics here anymore, I wonder what our position would be. I would like to refer to another remark that you made. You said that we should leave the judgment on the survival and the survival of the First Chamber primarily to the House of Representatives. I spent a short time there, and it didn't make me so happy. That's why I'm glad I'm back here. It is, of course, very strange that we, as the First Chamber, as a political body, should leave the House of Representatives primarily to decide what our future should be like. We'll be playing in injury time when this comes back here, because then all we can do is reject it. Would you mind taking that up for a second? I think this is the exception to the rule. If we also place the survival and the survival of the First Chamber primarily in the Lower House, I think we are going a step too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u210	Maybe I expressed myself unclearly. To draw a parallel: I was mayor when the debate on the elected mayor took place. I didn't miss the fact that it happened here, too. I wasn't supposed to be part of that at the time, because it was said that the turkey wasn't talking about Christmas dinner. In this case we can talk, but as far as I am concerned it goes in order: a cabinet position, an opinion of the Council of State, Second Chamber and First Chamber. Somehow, in the debate on the Schalk motion, I had the idea that we should first find something here and then the others should find something. Because it's about yourself, I don't think you necessarily have to sit in another place in the parliamentary process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u211	I assume you think it is wise that we should take the opportunity here, and I shall come back to that later to talk about our own position. That's one. Two. You may have a specific answer to the remark that it was just made that it was striking that the cabinet came up with a reaction shortly after the Provincial State elections and said: perhaps we should let that other house across the street, the First Chamber, but split by changing half of it every few years. That's not very correct, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u212	I'm about to go into the content. I think the ruler will have to deal with the timing. You give an interpretation and conspiracies are often assumed where it is usually naivety or coincidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u213	I understand that you are looking primarily at the government, but you cannot escape the impression that it is quite a coincidence that shortly after the provincial state elections, the cabinet adds something to the judgment on the Remkes report, whereas it is not at all capable of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u214	I will listen with interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u215	You have one minute left, Mr. Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u216	This was a procedural remark. Now I come to the content. Some of that has already been interrupted. With regard to the Schalk motion, I have no objection to the proposal to go back to the old way of electing the Supreme Court. I mentioned the need for stability and continuity earlier in my speech. If any other way of election can contribute to this, then we are certainly open to it, but not as the means. We don't overestimate it. Until 1982, 1983 the First Chamber was also elected in this way. It was changed because a direct election was proposed. That disappeared from the Constitution. This is almost a coincidence. So the proposal is not that shocking. And yes, it may be detrimental to small parties, but we received a very nice report on electoral systems last week, which shows that you can offer compensation for this with electoral voters, the largest averages or whatever. We are therefore open to a proposal, if it ever reaches us, because I have read the report of the general consultation in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u217	That concludes your contribution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u218	No, I have two other First Chamber points, but Mr Schalk is so threatening at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u219	You are already past your speaking time and we must be fair to the other speakers as well. I'm asking you to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u220	Rounding up. The chairman of the group has already said that we are reluctant about another procedure in the proposed amendment to the revision procedure of the Constitution. We would like to have a joint meeting to buy time, but let us vote separately. As a group, we are not yet out of the right to return. We see advantages in this, but it can also lead to delays and abuse. We do not know whether we should vote in the final vote. We are also awaiting a proposal from the cabinet on this point. I await with interest the forthcoming contributions of colleagues, including a maiden speech, and the reaction of the ruler.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u221	I was pleased to hear Mr Meijer say that the vote against the motion had to do with the procedural. I said something about that myself. There is a great deal to be said about it under state law, but it was striking that more than two thirds of this Chamber agreed. I was hoping that Mr Meijer would immediately state that he could agree with the content. I agree with him that we could, of course, go back to 1983, but a few other things have also changed in the intervening period, for example the expiry of the list links, the choice of the largest average and so on. As a result, a sort of stacking has been created that may not easily maintain every party in this Chamber. I hope that a large party like the VVD will take that into account in its deliberations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u222	I think I have already said something about that report, which can be met. This is our position, but we await a proposal from the cabinet, with all the advantages and disadvantages and modalities. In the end, we will make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u223	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u224	Mr. Chairman. I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Doornhof on his maiden speech and wish him every success. I know it's pretty special. Mr. Chairman. As several speakers have said before me, this is quite a special debate. There is an initial reaction from the cabinet and there are already some legislative proposals for consultation. And it's only now that there's a debate in the First Chamber. All in all, a somewhat chaotic image. But chaos also offers opportunities. The chaos theory teaches us that chaos can lead to a higher order. This higher order only arises when a lot of energy is added to the system. Concretely, when many actors put their energy into maintaining and improving our rule of law. First of all, I would like to thank the Remkes Committee for the report. It has become an exciting report, a report with much constitutional wisdom, a report that calls for reflection and dialogue, a report that calls for agreement and contradiction. In short, all ingredients for a substantive debate. The Christian Union Group would like to congratulate the Minister on this report and thank him for the first reaction of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group appreciates the analysis. The Committee points out on page 25 on the broad basis of democracy. The Committee notes that the changing context demands the establishment of democracy. On page 86, for example, we read "that social reality makes it clear that parliamentary democracy is not working equally well for everyone at the moment and that citizens for whom democracy is working less well are at risk of turning away from democracy." The report indicates that there are two types of problems: cultural problems and structural problems. The report rightly states that these problems are connected. It is striking that the report places so much emphasis on cultural problems. The report speaks of feelings of orphanage. I quote on page 99: "The administrative tendency to act pragmatically or even technocraticly cannot remove that orphanage. Another political system is not the solution. What is needed is another democratic culture." It may well be that this is the committee's main message and that we need a different political culture. The committee focuses on two red wires. Our group believes that the report actually has four red threads: Broad basis of democracy Political-democratic culture Strengthening resilience Improving the substantive representation I deliberately reversed the third and fourth thread in relation to the report. The Remkes Committee stresses that the broad basis and political-democratic culture of the actors are essential for strengthening the resilience of the rule of law and improving the substantive representation. Does the Minister share the view of our group that the report has four red lines? Is the cabinet prepared to consider each of these four threads and ask itself what it should do for each thread? I'm getting to the broad base. At the beginning of the report, the Committee states that the broad basis of democracy lies in social democracy. The ROB report Democracy is more than just a political message. Tjeenk Willink also points out this in his booklet entitled Doing bigger thinking smaller. When we talk about the broad basis of democracy, it is primarily about the functioning of government in relation to the citizen. These are participatory processes, the visibility of the police and the functioning of the Tax Administration. Tjeenk Willink believes that this broad basis is neglected. He speaks on page 20 of concrete rot which slowly undermines the democratic rule of law. The movie I, Daniel Blake, reveals in a compelling way what it does to civilians. Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the committee does signal the broad basis of democracy but does not raise any problems. The same applies to the reaction of the cabinet. However, we are reading some proposals that can strengthen the broad basis. Does the Minister share that social democracy is the basis of our democracy? If so, could the Minister promise that the government will really work on this broad basis in its full response? And how she's gonna do that? In the view of the Christian Union, the government is one of the actors that shape social democracy. There are also many private initiatives. We then talk about civil society or civil society. They contribute to shaping social democracy. Our question is therefore how the Minister sees the role of civil society. Where could the government put this question and put it? How could the government facilitate this? I come to the second point, the second red line: the culture of the actors. The Committee stresses that the strengthening of the democratic rule of law requires not only democratic and constitutional institutions, but also a democratic and constitutional culture of the main actors within it. They must, according to the report, promote, defend and strengthen the democratic rule of law. Further on, we read that "the legitimacy of the system should be rediscovered in a new political-democratic culture, with a greater emphasis on political proximity." Our first question to the Minister is whether he shares this conclusion of the committee. I would like to go into a little more detail about two actors in this field. I'll start with the government. The key question is: how does the government come to a culture of proximity? A sad example of a distance culture is the premium affair. Someone said to me: we should have cried out a day of national mourning. We're running from incident to incident. Our question to the Minister is therefore how he can achieve a more structural approach. How is the government going to convert the exchange? Where would the government want to stand in a year? Can the Minister promise that the government will respond fully to these questions? The second set of actors I would like to discuss are the political parties and their representatives. The key question is: how do they stand with regard to the rule of law? I would like to make three points. First of all, language. What language do we use when we talk about the rule of law? Is our language characterized by the promotion, defence and strengthening of the rule of law? Or do we fall into the trap of easy judgments and three-letter characterisations? With regard to the latter and to avoid misunderstandings, I am thinking of three-letter words such as "fake." That word has already fallen today. By the way, I wrote this text yesterday. The following point is made: the Judges. How do we talk about judges? With respect for their independent function? With respect for their independent judgment? With respect for their counterpower, even if, for whatever reason, we question that? I am also thinking of the use of the ambivalent expression 'political process'. In principle, each process is political in the sense that each process functions within the principles of the separation of powers. But the other meaning is: a process inspired by politics and whose course and outcome is determined by politics. The use of such words, without explanation, also affects our political culture. I would also like to distance myself from Mr Cliteur, by calling for a poll or for our judges to be influenced by their political convictions. In addition, a survey is so weak methodologically that it is scientifically irresponsible. I come to the final point: how do our own political parties function? Can we say that our own party, from the perspective of structure and culture, is an example of democracy? Can we say that our parties are exemplary in promoting, defending and strengthening the rule of law, in its structure and in its culture? Are some members perhaps "more equal than others" within their own party? I refer to George Orwell's famous novel. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group welcomes the Commission's analysis of the resilience of the democratic rule of law. The Group also shares the view that there is an urgent problem. Our feeling is that the analysis and recommendations are in line with the main thrust. I would like to make two recommendations. The Christian Union Group supports the committee's conclusion that a constitutional review provides for a gap. Our group can imagine such a review being carried out by a constitutional court. But we are also open to other ways. Can the Minister provide an overview of possible forms? Could the Minister weigh the various variants and explore them in the Dutch context, at the same time as the appreciation of the cabinet? Can the Minister undertake to do this? The Christian Union supports the strengthening of the rule of law with a view to undermining the system under the influence of modern technology. The possibilities of modern ICT are unlimited, even in the worst sense. At the same time, fellow Vos referred to the series Black Mirror. Does the Minister share that modern ICT is a threat to our democracy, to external influence and to internal influence? What is the Minister going to do about this in concrete terms? Can the Minister undertake to respond to this in the cabinet response? Mr. Chairman. Our group cannot escape the impression that the link between the analysis and the recommendations on improving the representation of content are less convincing. Our main argument is that the persistent differences between groups in our society are highly socio-culturally determined; see pages 83 to 86. Our concern is that these differences cannot be reduced or can hardly be reduced by structural measures. Does the Minister share the committee's view that these differences are particularly socio-cultural? What measures does the Minister intend to take to reduce these persistent differences? Can the Minister promise that the full cabinet response will explicitly address this issue? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is proposing another election of the First Chamber. For our group, it is conceivable that this election should take place in a different way. But our group will oppose any change that leads to a disguised increase in the electoral threshold, precisely because of the weighty element of the substantive representation. Finally, Mr. Chairman, and I will finish. In the beginning I pointed out four red threads: the broad basis of democracy, the political-democratic culture, the strengthening of resilience and the improvement of substantive representation. In the view of the group of the Christian Union, each thread has its own character. The government bears its own responsibility for each thread. The different actors in politics and society also have their own responsibility. I'll come back to chaos theory. In nature you only get a higher order if you add a lot of energy to the system. If you don't, the second law of thermodynamics will strike and the chaos will only get bigger. It is also a wonderful metaphor for the rule of law. It calls for a great deal of effort to increase the dikes of the rule of law and to lower the thresholds. The Christian Union Group is committed to this. We look forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u225	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. To the second accurate, for which compliments. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u226	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I wish Mr Doornhof every success in his maiden speech, which he will be holding after me. Mr. Chairman. Today, 4 February, we said goodbye to former colleague Mrs Van Huffelen, because of her appointment as Secretary of State for Finance. I congratulated her this morning and wished her wisdom and strength. You will understand that I cannot fail to note that with this appointment she is the embodiment of the motion I tabled on 10 December last year to appoint a second Secretary of State for Finance. The motion was held by me on 16 December, one day later the then Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Snel, announced his resignation in the House of Representatives. It can happen quickly, Mr President, and now we have two. Mr. Chairman. A lot has been said. I will confine myself to those subjects that directly concern the Upper House itself. I just gave a small introduction to interrupting earlier. This opportunity does not occur often, if not rarely. The final report of the Parliamentary Committee offers an excellent opportunity. I agree with many of my colleagues who have expressed their appreciation for the report. The 50PLUS Group thinks that the opinion is complete, sound and I would like to say this here too: excellent in terms of language. It evokes the interest in a manner of speaking more and more while you are reading. That's what I like about this piece. The Committee describes three tasks for the First Chamber. Providing a counterweight to the actual monism in the House of Representatives. For this it is necessary that senators are not bound by the coalition agreement. Secondly, a better guarantee of the rule of law, the enforcement and the feasibility of legislative proposals, especially when they have not received sufficient attention in the previous stage of the legislative process. Thirdly, to strengthen the resilience of the democratic rule of law. I now come to the committee's speech on this matter. The political composition of the Chambers is increasingly different from each other and the committee recognizes the problematic side of it, but these factors do not outweigh the value of the First Chamber as a democratic correction mechanism at some distance from the government and the coalition agreement. The Committee states that the added value of the First Chamber is not sufficiently reflected as part of the entire system of checks-and-balances, power and counter-power. In order to make the added value more effective, the Committee considers that some distance from the government and the House of Representatives is desirable. Well, according to the committee, the First Chamber is a part-time parliament and is not involved in the cabinet formation. Senators of coalition parties should not be bound or bound to the coalition agreement. The role of the First Chamber as a correction mechanism is rarely reflected in the results of the votes. Each year, on average, one to two legislative proposals are rejected, out of the 200 to 300 proposals. The number of forced novelles is also small, especially in comparison with the number of amendments in the House of Representatives, and I speak from some experience when I say that. There are also more and more initiatives recently. Mr. Chairman. According to the Committee, the added value of the First Chamber could be better achieved if it had a less blunt instrument by giving it a return right. The Committee points out a previous report by the Temporary Committee of the First Chamber: the First Chamber is also a political body in which legislative proposals are determined in the light of party programmes and principles. Despite the focus on legislative quality, the review of legislative proposals is ultimately of a political nature. Between 2010 and 2017, the Committee notes, the Cabinets Rutte I and Rutte II ruled without a solid coalition majority in the First Chamber. This led to negotiations between cabinet and coalition and opposition groups in the Lower House, expecting a broadening of political support in the Lower House to lead to the adoption of a bill by the Upper Chamber, and otherwise not. The Committee points out that the First Chamber itself has only a limited role in this process. Old senator De Grave could formulate that nicely: it is the seats in the First Chamber, not the ideas used in the political negotiation process in the Second Chamber. The Committee states that this is an unintended effect of the two-chamber system. In fact, the composition of the Upper House thus leads to a higher majority for legislative proposals in the Lower House. The Committee also notes that the legislative production of Rutte I and Rutte II has in no way come to a standstill. If a subsequent cabinet reacts less agilely to "running opposition via the Senate," decision-making could come to a standstill, which is particularly important in exceptional circumstances in the country. The Committee also points out that the First Chamber itself played a greater role under Rutte I and II: more novelles, more rejected proposals, and the Cabinet also withdrew more proposals due to the lack of sufficient support in the First Chamber. The First Chamber thus acts a little more as a correction mechanism vis-à-vis government and coalition groups in the Lower Chamber, if the government does not have a fixed majority in the Upper Chamber, the Committee says. The Committee sees this as a positive side effect of increased electoral volatility. The Committee advocates that groups in the Lower House do not give the impression that they determine the voting behaviour of their party members in the Upper House. Conversely, senators should not give the impression that their attitude is a direct derivative of the voting behaviour of their party members in the other Chamber. If this impression arises, the Committee says, this undermines the added value and the role of the First Chamber in the state system. The Committee concludes that the First Chamber is a counterweight to the strong monistic relations, the increasingly narrower majorities and the more detailed government agreements that have been taken over by the House of Representatives over the past decades. I speak from some experience when I see here that under the present cabinet in the Lower House the engine block of 76 seats actually smothers every debate, but at least every question about the result in advance. Well, at least we still have a First Chamber. The Committee points out that more routes have been developed by the First Chamber to exert more influence besides the blunt weapon of rejection. The novelle, a new bill which amends the original bill, has been criticised from a state-owned point of view as a disguised right of amendment, but formally, according to the committee, it is a power of the government and not of the First Chamber. Nor has the Council of State declared the novelle instrument contrary to the Constitution, provided that it is used in a sparing manner. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet responds to the committee's opinion as follows. The potential added value of the First Chamber for the system as a whole is not sufficiently clear. The committee is putting forward the proposal for a return right. The committee also makes a second proposal to improve the coherence between the work of the two chambers: an adaptation of the procedure for revising the Constitution, the so-called second reading at a united meeting. And now he comes: the cabinet, they say, adds a third proposal, namely the proposal to elect the First Chamber in a different way, namely in the way before 1983. I go into more detail about the cabinet's proposal for a different way of electing the First Chamber, and I start with what the committee says about that. The Committee does not recommend changing the way in which the Upper Chamber is elected. The change in the term of office from six to four years was in fact originally intended. It has already been recalled here in conjunction with the transition to a direct election of the First Chamber. There was no majority before that election. The committee notes that there was no in-depth debate at the time on the length of the session. One of the arguments put forward was that the length of the term of office and the election in two halves meant that the composition would be a little further away from the term of office and then the voter's current preferences, which was considered undesirable. Moreover, there was no need for the greater stability of the First Chamber which could result from a term of six years. The Committee notes that it has not happened once since 1983 that a coalition lost its majority during the journey. I would point out to Mr Remkes that in December, too, Mr Remkes said to the committee that it is a coincidence that shortly after this opinion it was the first time that the cabinet lost the majority in this Chamber during the journey. The committee notes that the differences between the two systems are small. The First Chamber has been more active and self-conscious since the sixties, but this was not caused by the change in 1983. Well, it is, and that's where every four years there's speculation that the coalition loses the majority in the First Chamber. The delayed pass-through of voters' preferences in the First Chamber was one of the reasons for the state committees Van Schaik and Cals to move away from the election in two parts. The Committee considers that the delayed effect will undermine the right of the First Chamber to exist. Finally, the Committee notes that another side effect of a return to the system prior to 1983 is that it becomes more difficult for small parties to enter the Upper Chamber. I quote: there are only 37 or 38 seats to be allocated at each election, instead of 75, which actually leads to a doubling of the electoral threshold. The reaction of the cabinet to the phased election of the First Chamber is the following. I quote: 'The State Committee stresses the value of the First Chamber as a democratic correction mechanism at some distance from the government and the coalition agreement. The cabinet believes that it would be better to return to the system before 1983 in this light. The longer term of the senators, their indirect election and the delayed passage of change in the political power relations in the First Chamber fit better with the role and position of the First Chamber as a chambre de réflexion. It can therefore no longer be the case that the Upper House as a whole has a more recent political mandate than the Lower House." It's been noted. The final judgment of the cabinet is: with the method of election of the First Chamber thus to be modified, a better division of roles between the two Chambers is contributed. To this end, this reform is in line with the government's intention to introduce the return right and the change in the Constitutional revision procedure requested by the Cabinet. These three proposals therefore form a coherent whole. Those who still know that the Hoekstra motion has been adopted by a large majority here will understand why I am saying this so slowly and clearly. My group believes that the committee is putting forward convincing arguments not to proceed to the election of the First Chamber in two stages. It will be clear that, for this reason, my group is not in favour of the gradual election of the Supreme Court because of too great an impact on small parties. When I read and tell you this, I note that the cabinet's proposal is a transparent, fragile political game in the power struggle between government and control, between government and parliaments. I'd say, "First Chamber, keep an eye on your case." Finally, the return right. I shall come back to that because it also requires an amendment to the Constitution. The committee provides a thorough basis. It recommends that the First Chamber be given the power to amend a bill which has been accepted by the House of Representatives. If the First Chamber does so, then he must return the proposal to the House of Representatives. He then decides whether to accept the amendment of the First Chamber or to reverse it completely. The House of Representatives then decides whether the proposal as a whole is adopted or not. The First Chamber may therefore choose to adopt, reject or return the proposal. If the First Chamber chooses to return, the last word is and will remain for the House of Representatives, unless there are further rules, but I will not go into that. If the First Chamber does not use the right to return, he will retain the last word. The power of the Supreme Court to reject a proposal is thus maintained. In each proposal, he may decide separately whether he wishes to exchange his right of rejection for a one-off return right. The First Chamber will then be given the opportunity to give a concrete indication of how the proposal can be improved. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the committee's recommendation that, if necessary, a constitutional review should be carried out ex post on fundamental rights by means of a new constitutional court. We ask the Minister to make a note of the advantages and disadvantages of that recommendation, in which other variants can also be involved by the cabinet, as the cabinet itself suggests. I would like to endorse Mr Verkerk's question as to whether the Minister will undertake to return to it by weighing up the pros and cons and involving other variants. I look forward to the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u227	Thank you very much, Mr Van Rooijen. Then I give the floor to Mr Doornhof for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u228	Mr. Chairman. Parliamentary democracy functions fairly well in the Netherlands. That is an important conclusion of the State Committee, the report of which is at the heart of this Chamber today. The CDA Group would like to thank Mr Remkes and the other members of the committee for all their work. We very much appreciated the oral exchange of views here in committee with members of the committee. The fact that parliamentary democracy is working so well does not, in the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, make it clear to us that the parliamentary system must be made more future-proof. You know that for the first time I have spoken in this Chamber. I do not do that when dealing with a concrete legislative proposal, but when discussing a report that could lead to legislative proposals. That's a little weird. Normally, you would first have the judgment of the House of Representatives about ideas to change the law. Then it is not obvious that we are now discussing the report with ideas for new legislation. But if we are talking about a system that we ourselves as a Chamber are part of, we may be able to say something in reverse, apart from the ever-current control function. In the end, the initiative for the State Commission in this Chamber was taken. Now the subject has been discussed several times in our Committee on Home Affairs. I believe that the way in which this has been done shows how structured and careful it can be done in this Chamber. The approach has always been to keep ourselves well informed of what the report says and that we also know what the government thinks about it. Then we could have an exchange of views with each other and with the government. Then the cabinet could work on the recommendations, knowing what Parliament's views are. In the House of Representatives they have indeed already been working on the report. This order seems logical because of the role the First Chamber has in the state committee. The cabinet is looking at it differently. On parts, the cabinet has already started implementation. This is not least about an amendment to the Constitution. A new procedure for the appointment of members of the Supreme Court has been consulted. This also applies to the extension of the term of office of the members of this Chamber and to the change of course for a revision of the Constitution. The government has taken these initiatives to come to a first reading hearing before the Lower House elections, but it has not even finished a final assessment of the entire report. We received a response from the government in juno, but we are still waiting for the cabinet position on the main recommendations in the report. That second response was initially announced before December, but the cabinet has now announced that no commitment can be made on the deadlines for the follow-up. Maybe we'll hear more from the Minister about the deadlines. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to Mr Schalk's motion. It calls on the government to at least consider the draft law on the extension of the term of office of the First Chamber. Now, I think, it was not so difficult for this cabinet to respond to this motion, because we have just decided to have this debate now, although we do not yet have that second reaction. Mr Schalk said a few words about it himself. The motion was perhaps also intended to express some dissatisfaction with the way in which the cabinet elected it. This is called 'office policy', but perhaps we could have expected a little more political sensitivity. The Committee on the Interior has also written a letter on this subject. Anyway, let me go to the contents of the report. I repeat: parliamentary democracy is functioning fairly well in our country, and yet the State Committee notes that the system is not at present sufficiently capable of representing a significant group of Dutch people in terms of content. According to the State Committee, this group of voters, particularly those with lower education, cannot agree with the decisions taken in The Hague. For example, these are important issues such as Europe and immigration. This is also in line with what the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau said long after the ink of the state committee's report was dry. I quote: "More people than before are satisfied with democracy and government, but a significant and stable part of the population is cynical about politics and feels, for example, that they do not have an influence on what the government does, or that politicians are too keen on powerful groups rather than on the general interest. There are also social concerns: about living together, about immigration and integration, about the costs of health care and the quality of care for the elderly. And more and more also about climate and environment. Finally, more Dutch people generally see conflicts and contradictions between population groups than five years ago." It is quite right that the State Commission should highlight that it cannot offer solutions to social discontent, but it is proposing to address this issue of substantive representation. My group takes this problem very seriously. We also do not want to keep everything to the existing one. Our party stands for the democratic rule of law. We consider a political culture that upholds and strengthens its values, institutions and principles. Mr. Chairman. The fact that it is right that we are discussing the report today does not mean that I am going to say on behalf of my group of every recommendation whether or not we should accept it. In the end, many of these recommendations apply that they have to land in a bill. It is the case that the government and the House of Representatives are first and foremost involved. We want to be able to assess their possible legislative proposals on all their merits without any reservations. The fact that the cabinet's second reaction is not yet there makes us all the more reluctant, but we are happy to give a number of shots. The state committee sees in the chosen formatter a strengthening of our system. It has also been said that an amendment to the electoral system and a binding corrective referendum are to be recommended. The cabinet has already said in its first reaction that it does not accept the recommendation on the chosen formatter. The CDA Group agrees with that. The cabinet is now continuing its examination of the other two recommendations. For example, it sets out three options for the reform of the electoral system. In any case, my group agrees with the State Commission and the Cabinet that the regional component of the electoral system should be further increased. However, the report of the State Committee does not pay much attention to the disadvantages of the correct binding referendum. What exactly does it mean when a bill is voted down? You'd think there'd have to be a sequel. What exactly does that follow-up mean? I would like to draw attention to the opinion of the Council of State on the initiative proposal of the Member of Parliament, Mr Van Raak. The Council of State states that it is often not fully clear what electoral motives were for voting against it. In addition, we live in a country where major problems often have to be solved through the compromise. Although a binding corrective referendum is compatible with representative democracy, it would nevertheless undermine our polder model, no matter how you turn it or turn it. Another point. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities has said that citizens are disturbed by the division of existing groups, but that they are not making any further proposals. My group wonders whether this should not have happened. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the problem of the substantive representation that needs to be addressed, the State Commission believes that the resilience of our democratic rule of law deserves to be strengthened. Young people need to learn more about how our democracy works. Political parties should also provide insight into how they conduct digital campaigns. The cabinet has worked on these recommendations with great vigour. Furthermore, the State Committee recommends a constitutional court. In doing so, it also carefully points out the counter-arguments, including the argument that the legislator is democratically legitimised and should therefore continue to judge the constitutionality of laws itself. My group is not yet convinced that this argument is less strong than the additional legal protection provided for by constitutional review. In any case, we do not see the need to re-establish a constitutional court. You could also say: delete "just" Article 120 of the Constitution; then all judges can go and test the Constitution, as we now do with treaties. The recommendation to change the procedure by which the members of the Supreme Court are appointed has allowed the government to land in a draft proposal to change the Constitution. I've already said that. If such a proposal were to be accepted, it would mean that the House of Representatives would no longer be responsible for a nomination for a new member to be appointed, but that there would be a nomination committee. The cabinet will now be clear that the CDA would have found it carefully if we had had this proposal after today's debate. We've had the President and the Vice Presidents of the Supreme Court here. What is even more difficult is that the Supreme Court itself has not been consulted on this concept in advance. According to the CDA Group, this confirms the quirky snapshot approach chosen by the government in the state committee report. The two other concept ideas of the Cabinet to change the Constitution to an adjustment of the electoral procedure of this Chamber and a change in the way a Constitutional revision takes place at second reading. Of course, what has been said several times is striking: the state committee itself did not make that recommendation. However, it is now the government's intention to elect half of the members of the Upper Chamber every three years. This would ensure that the Upper House as a whole does not have a more recent mandate from the electorate than the Lower House. The State Committee acknowledges that this is conceptually better, but did not come up with that recommendation. You could ask whether the State Commission has not overlooked the advantage that the state elections are no longer overshadowed by the election of this Chamber. That also makes my group enthusiastic. However, we soon saw a report from the Dutch Political Parties Documentation Centre to prevent small parties from getting into too much trouble. That's good, because they could be underrepresented. Mr. Chairman. The last idea of the cabinet is to give our Chamber less power in constitutional reforms. The intention is to deal with the second reading of Constitutional reforms at a unified meeting of the two Chambers, in which this Chamber naturally brings 75 votes against the 150 on the other side. The CDA Group would not want to separate this intention from the recommendation of the State Committee to give our Chamber in general a return right. My group is experiencing the current system, which can be called black and white anyway, whether it accepts or does not accept a legislative proposal and votes away as not being effective enough. Of course, we are working with novelles, but as far as we are concerned, the Constitution now includes a nuanced correction mechanism. I have a specific question on this, which I would like to ask the Minister: is he now prepared to link the question on the role of the First Chamber in constitutional reform to a broader discussion on the powers of the First Chamber in the second reaction which we will be receiving? At that point, the First Chamber should also be involved in the front. Perhaps the Minister also has an idea of how that might happen, so how we can be involved in thinking about our future powers. I'm coming to the end of my contribution. The problem that a significant group of mainly lower educated people cannot agree with the decision-making process in The Hague can be addressed with new proposals. Perhaps it depends mainly on whether the present members of our Parliament see the analysis of the State Commission as a signal of their own functioning. Especially for a starting MP like me, the report can help to realize even better that we are not, in the end, party representatives representing only their own supporters. In the four years I have been elected here, my group will mainly assess legislative proposals on legality and quality. Across the street, they have the political primacy. That is also where the signal from the State Commission could be picked up. But even if we have less power in this Chamber and we have been chosen differently, we too are there for everyone. In the way in which I assess the quality of legislative proposals, therefore, I also include the interests and feelings of people who are socially alienated and politically abandoned. It is not for nothing that the State Committee points to Article 50 of the Constitution, albeit with a somewhat contemporary explanation. However, the literal text of this article may always be on our retina: the States-General represent the entire Dutch people. That's all I have to say, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u229	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. After your studies Legal Administrative Sciences and Civil Law at the University of Leiden, you started working as a lawyer in administrative law and environmental law at law firm Stibbe in 2002. Since 2013 you have been a partner at AKD Lawyers in Amsterdam. Here you are also active in the field of administrative and environmental law. You are also attached to the Academy of Public Lawyers where you teach lectures on government contracts. At the VNG Congress & Study Centre you will provide knowledge meetings on environmental and municipal law and public contract law. And since the beginning of the current academic year, you have given lectures at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam on environmental law within the course The municipal lawyer of the future. You will also regularly publish about municipal law in magazines such as De Gemestem, Bouwrecht and Jruidsrecht for municipalities. Already during your studies, you became active for the CDA. In 2000, you were elected as a member of the city council of Nijkerk. Sailing detail: both your mother and your grandfather had already preceded you as councilman in Nijkerk. Maybe your son will follow in your footsteps later. At your swearing-in on 11 June 2019 he was already there as a newborn! You see, we're well informed here. In 2002, you were the youngest municipal leader with 23 years. After fourteen years as a council member, of which eight years as group chairman, you left local politics in 2014 to return to national politics five years later as a senator. During last year's election campaign for Provincial States, you said about your candidacy as Prime Minister: "Politics is important and fun. Looking at proposals with a legal look is new to me. Good legislative proposals can make a country better. These must be laws that are understandable, logical and good for the inhabitants of the Netherlands." Today's debate on the report by the Parliamentary Committee on the Rules of Procedure has therefore been brought to your attention. We've seen that. Once again, welcome. We look forward to your further input. Before I suspend the sitting for a moment of congratulations and dinner break, do I ask if any of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I would ask Mr Doornhof to stand up for the rostrum so that all other colleagues can congratulate him. As President, I would like to congratulate you first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u230	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the final report of the Parliamentary System Committee. I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u231	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very nice that you have had this debate here today, that I was present as a listener and that I am now also in a position to respond to the introduction of Members of the Chamber. I can at least say in advance that, given the nature of the debate and the way in which it has been debated, you could almost conclude that there is still a place and a role for the First Chamber in the parliamentary system. I enjoyed the insertion of different sides. This does not automatically mean that I was always in agreement with the content of the speeches, but the fact that there has been a debate on this subject in this way, ahead of a whole legislative process, is very special. It has already been said by many speakers that the Remkes State Commission has taken some time to come forward with a proposal. It was a thorough piece with no less than 83 recommendations in the various categories, towards the legislator or specifically towards the parliament. Of course, you can always ask whether it is just some sort of "lock, stock, and barrel" report that needs to be taken over in its entirety. In my opinion, the debate has made it very clear that such a report must of course be judged on its merits, but that the choices you make on the basis of the recommendations of the report are always political choices, even here in the First Chamber. That is also the position of the cabinet. It is not something of marginal scrutiny; it is a substantive political choice whether you want it to be. There are always pros and cons. You can weigh them depending on where you stand and the political group you represent. I think today's debate is, in that sense, a kind of ex ante general debate, even before all these legislative processes begin. Of course, a number of smaller sections have already been set in motion, but in particular those sections I shall come back to them in a little more detail which deal with the amendment of the Constitution and which need to be dealt with in two readings by both Chambers will require more time. That is precisely the reason why I understand very well the call from some of your Members who say: 'Take a step forward and take the direction 'I have heard that too' to ensure that we do not get into trouble purely on the basis of time. Before I respond to the Chamber's input, I would also like to briefly look back at where we have now come from, how that route has gone and what elements in it deserve to be taken up as a matter of urgency as far as I am concerned. I shall, of course, consider the implementation of the Schalk motion, because the Schalk motion is obviously the reason why we are here at the moment, even before a legislative proposal of the category of constitutional change has been submitted to the Council of State. That was the operative part of the motion. The Cabinet has responded to that and we have also corresponded to your Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I would like to have this debate on the basis of a number of cubes. They're usually used to it across the street. The first is a look back and an analysis of the way in which the State Commission has come to its findings and what elements of it we want to take as a priority. I would then like to comment on the first and second categories of proposals put forward by the cabinet. In doing so, we believe that tranche one, the first category, contains proposals that should be taken up urgently, and that the second category contains proposals that we are working on. Then I come to the issues relating to structure and culture, which some of you have mentioned. As a fifth, I want to talk about the position of the First Chamber. This is, of course, a very important subject which all the groups have referred to, also in conjunction with the Schalk motion and the way in which it is implemented and the position of small parties. Finally, I would like to answer a number of other questions raised by the Chamber. It has already been recalled by a number of you that in 2016 the initiative was initiated in this Chamber for the establishment of the State Committee. That February 2016 motion that was adopted here led to the start of the entire journey. We've been four years. We have a report now. We have a first appreciation. We have the first cabinet responses. We also have a first exchange of views, both in the Second Chamber and in the Upper Chamber. What is important is that you always have to keep your democratic system under review and always see how things can be done better. I think that has led to the setting up of the State Committee. He has taken that very quickly, for which I would also like to thank them very much in this place. You don't do that as an end in itself, but you do so to maintain your own system in the spirit of Thorbecke. He said that at the time very nicely: "Every period has its own principle of movement. Let one sleep that, then in the next period there is confusion of movement. Stadium union is maintained not by unemployment but by continuous creation." It's a beautiful text, but that's essentially what it's all about. You'll see if it's still adequate. Remkes' analysis has in any case indicated that there are a number of points that need to be improved. Then you're on it. The previous cabinet set up the State Commission in February 2017. The formal mandate of the cabinet was to allow the committee to consider the functioning of the parliamentary system and parliamentary democracy, and to advise the government on the future stability of the parliamentary system. In doing so, she had to take into account the following things. The Dutch citizen wants to be more involved in policy and politics, as repeated investigations of the SCP also show. European decision-making is also increasingly important for the way in which legislation is discussed in the Chambers and for the space that remains there. Many tasks have also been decentralised in recent years. That also has consequences for Thorbecke's house, of course. The volatility in the electoral sense has increased exponentially, you could say, especially if you compare it with years like 1953 and 1983, which came along. And digitisation and social media have a huge impact on the work of parliamentarians. They are affected very quickly. You gotta take care of that in a good way. In the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, sustainability means that the parliamentary system must be designed in such a way that it continues to function adequately in an ever-changing social environment. That's easy to say, but it's not easy to do. So you have to make something that is sustainable on the one hand and at the same time resistant to the changing society. Many have said it: that change is moving faster and faster. The world is actually getting smaller and smaller. All this has implications for the way in which we relate to each other in a parliamentary system. Then, according to the State Commission, a number of democratic and constitutional values are being put under increasing pressure. I'll get back to you on that. In its analysis, the State Committee points to two major problems. The first is that the substantive representation in democracy is inadequate. The fact that not all citizens are heard about this, many of you have spoken about it, and this is a common thread in the committee's final report. The second is the resilience of the democratic rule of law. In its investigation, the State Committee has shown that the functioning of the parliamentary system must be placed within the broader framework of the democratic rule of law. It also points to a number of current developments that cause concern. That is why, after 100 years, it is time for adjustments to our democracy and our rule of law, according to the State Commission. This does not, of course, mean that simply changing structures or introducing measures is a solution to the problems. I have heard a number of you speak very explicitly and in detail about this. I agree with that. But the other way around, it doesn't mean you don't have to do anything. We are not in a very big crisis, but you need to adapt your system and make it resilient when that crisis has not yet occurred. Before Christmas, your Chamber discussed this with the chairman and a number of members of the State Commission, including Professor Tom van der Meer. They also emphasised this in that conversation. You have been able to take note of the reports. There is support for democracy in the Netherlands. There is also support for a parliamentary system. That's what all the tests show. But that doesn't mean it's going to stay that way. Hence the call for changes. This is, of course, not only an appeal to Parliament, but also an appeal to the cabinet. Following the presentation of the report by the Remkes State Committee, I noticed two issues in the reactions to the report. The first is that the analysis of Remkes is widely recognized. This has often been said so literally, not only in parliament and in political circles, but also in academic and administrative circles. That's the good news. The comments on a number of concrete proposals, on the other hand, are quite different. That's what we saw today. There is also scepticism in some people, or some of those measures, if you were to implement them, would actually lead to a solution to the problems. Mr Meijer mentioned this a moment ago. He asked: what about the relationship between the problem and the solution, and there is always a correlation between it? In any case, I would like to say to the cabinet that I take the analysis of the State Committee very seriously and agree with the urgency of not waiting for necessary interviews. So I can reassure all those who have asked today whether there is sufficient urgency and whether the Cabinet is sufficiently aware of the need to implement measures. Yeah, that's right. But when we talk about 'citizens', at the same time, we see that the differences between citizens are increasing, as is shown by various studies. In a sense, it is not possible to talk about "the citizen" who finds something, because it is just what citizen you are talking about. The differences in society are widening. This goes through the axes of education and income. This also affects the way in which citizens manifest themselves and whether or not they are satisfied with our democratic rule of law. I think that anyone who is regularly abroad can objectively establish that we have a country where life is good, if you look at how it is organized in the Netherlands within our democratic system. In general, the rule of law is well secured. There is also room for the weak in society; there are measures to help those people. At the same time, we all feel that we could do even better. I think it's a task for all of us. That is why I like this debate, and also the debate we have had in the House of Representatives. I feel, even this evening and this afternoon, that this involvement in the parliamentary system is very large, wherever your politics stand. There's something about: we don't want to lose it. We all cherish what it has achieved and where it has brought us as a country, also internationally. Of course, we are also internationally known for our rule of law. We are, in a way, a guide country. We should continue to cherish that ambition. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is some work to be done. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Vos wondered how the cabinet is looking at the fact that such large parts of the population feel that they are no longer part of it and that they are abandoning society, as the state committee describes. She asked me if I recognize or recognize that problem. The state committee has outlined this and has also said that this is a major problem. That has everything to do with whether or not you feel represented in parliament and whether you feel heard. That also has to do with the question of whether you feel like you belong to society and that your voice gets a place through that representative democracy. I say to Mr Kox: that does not mean that every one of you who sits here should merely express the views of others. You make your own assessment, on the basis of the political party for which you were elected, but you do so in the interest of groups you represent. That was also the first thread in the Remkes Committee's report. The measures we are discussing today, which you have just discussed in the first term, and also a number of concrete legislative proposals, on which I will say something about them, help me first to recognise that there is a problem and then to resolve it. But I have said before that it is not enough to think that if you only introduce and implement a number of measures through legislation, the link in society between the electorate and the elected is there again. More needs to be done for that. Mr Verkerk wondered whether the cabinet shared the view that the report of the State Committee actually contained four red threads. The Remkes Committee talks about two red threads and Mr Verkerk talks about four red threads. He mentioned the broad basis for democracy, the political-democratic culture, strengthening resilience and improving substantive representation. Now I've always learned that when a thread is loose, you shouldn't pull it, because then you get more threads, and maybe more than four. In itself there is nothing to argue with his position and that subdivision, because it definitely cuts wood. At the same time, I think it is good to hold on to those two threads on the basis of the thorough analysis made by Remkes. But that does not alter the analysis that is behind it at all, nor does it alter the views that you can have on the various measures that are then mentioned. Mr. Chairman. I come to the measures in the first tranche, as shared by the Cabinet in the previous cabinet response with your Chamber. The first theme in the Remkes Committee's report was representativeness, or lack thereof. That's what we see from all kinds of phenomena. That is what we see when we talk about young people or certain groups of people who feel totally unrepresented. We can see from the way the young people have manifested themselves around the climate marches. At the same time, we also know that the system means that majorities in the population do not automatically translate into majorities in parliament. That's a fact. In fact, people who voted for a particular party do not always agree with the views of the party after it has been elected. If there is a government agreement that makes agreements that are very good for the country's governance, but which means that parties are on a smaller playing field than they might want, then it will be even more difficult to establish that connection. Then the question is, what are you going to do about it? What are you gonna do to deal with that problem? We have announced the first tranche of measures. I shall now turn to a number of questions raised by Mr Vos, Mr Schalk and Mr Ganzevoort. The first is, of course, to see what you can do about representativeness, about the electoral system, where many have the feeling: who am I now as an individual voter to decide who is elected on my behalf? Can't you do more about that representativeness? Of course, different types of electoral system have been designed or imaginable, including internationally; you can make a whole comparison. In the end, however, the cabinet believes that the preferred vote should play an important role, in order to give the electorate more influence. That still does not mean that Mr Kox is going to say everything that anyone who votes for him may expect of him, but it will create a link between the electorate and the elected. Internationally it also turns out that this just works. The participation of young people is also very important. I will come to that in a moment when we are talking about the youth parliament. The new generation is going to play a very important role, because they are ultimately the heirs of those who are sitting here now and who are generally of a slightly older age. They will have to maintain and further shape democracy and the rule of law. Citizenship and the awareness of what country you live in, where you come from, what is your common history and what is a rule of law, are principles that cannot be exposed enough. That is precisely the reason why a bill on this matter has been submitted to the Lower House by the colleague for Education. We are also going to promote the whole phenomenon of internet consultation. Digital society has threats in it, as Mr Verkerk has just pointed out, but it also has a lot of opportunities in it. One of the opportunities that you also see on social media is, of course, that the distance between the voter and the elected can be much smaller, and also the distance between the voter and the board. We are working on programmes to communicate more clearly and to speak more easily with our citizens. We do not want to make the citizen feel like a number stuck in a machine, in the bureaucracy that we unfortunately simply need, but we want to be clear: what do we ask of citizens and what is our message? That's in very simple things sometimes, but not simple things. That's a small difference about how you speak and how you communicate. At the moment, this programme is also being closely followed by local authorities. We are working on the Democracy in Action programme, in which we want to use instruments around e-democracy that allow voters to participate. I also notice from the cabinet that in the whole mindset, with all kinds of things we do, there is more and more the idea: how can you use that digital element to involve citizens? The second theme of the Remkes Committee's report concerns the vulnerability of the democratic rule of law. I think that people who may have had it with The Hague, as it is said so easily, can lose faith not only in the Hague politics, but also in the whole system, in the phenomenon of democracy. That's really dangerous. Then we go on a path where what we have built is all taken for granted, and in which what is dear to us is no longer cherished. We need to work on that. We cannot be naive about foreign interference and digital vulnerabilities either. We will have to resist this, as we have had to do in previous times against other threats. What did the cabinet ultimately do with a number of proposals in this area? There is, among other things, the Political Parties Act, which is currently in preparation. This leads us to look at a number of points on how we can organise things better and make things better in time. How can we translate the threats that exist now, but not 20 years ago, into good legislation? So that is not interference in internal party matters, but accountability in the context of transparency in an open democracy and the appointment of a number of rules of the game. The Political Parties Act is currently in preparation. That bill will be put into action this year. We have also drawn up a strategy against disinformation. This was sent to the House of Representatives in October 2019. There will also be a follow-up to this when it comes to the desired regulation. That will have to be done in line with the developments that are taking place in Europe, because we are not on an island. We are also dealing with all kinds of movements between countries. The procedure for the appointment of members of the Supreme Court is also amended. That bill was brought into consultation on 24 December last. Another proposal involves a process of internet consultation. I was just talking about that. There is also a strong call for attention to be paid to aspects of a constitutional nature. That's actually some kind of constitutional review ex ante. This will be further developed this year. These are all examples that in themselves may not be very shocking or cause very big changes, but in combination they take care of that necessary maintenance. Mr Schalk wondered whether I could indicate which parts of the top seven of the state committee fit in with what the government intends to do. Many of these measures will be discussed shortly, but I can go over them briefly. First of all, the adjustment of the electoral system. That's what we're doing, and I'll be back to talk about it in a minute. As far as the binding corrective referendum is concerned, there is currently an initiative proposal. I thought Mr Meijer said just now that this is a lack of direction. Actually, I don't see it that way. I actually see it as the power of parliament when the Lower House uses the right of initiative and starts working on it itself. That is not to say how the cabinet will ultimately appreciate it, because we are not there yet, but the fact that the proposal is there is worth a compliment, especially if you know how much work it is to make an initiative proposal. The cabinet has said not to take over the recommendation on the chosen formatter, but we do want to study the cabinet formation together with the House of Representatives. The constitutional review by a court is currently subject to consultation in the bosom of the cabinet and within the coalition to see which variant could be workable or not. Transparency about the use of digital instruments by political parties is taken into account in the new Political Parties Act. As regards improving democratic knowledge and skills in education and beyond, there is a bill in the House of Representatives, as I said just now. The right of return, which many of you have already considered and which many of you have philosophized in terms of the possibilities that there would be, is currently also the subject of consultation on the second package and the question is how exactly we intend to shape it. I consider this debate to be an enrichment of the various positions. The palette of different positions is wide in this Chamber and an additional contribution to the preparation that we are about to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u232	I welcome the way in which the Minister of the Interior responds to this Chamber. He is clear and clear, but at the same time he makes it clear that a lot of things still have to be decided and that we are only at the beginning. He mentions two things that I think are already asking for a little more answer from the government. That is the constitutional review and the right to return. These are two proposals which have not just been put forward at the head of the committee. The proposal for the return duty was on the table at least in 2000, but I think it was there even in 1980. And constitutional review has been on the table since this Chamber agreed at first reading with the Halsema initiative legislative proposal. It's nice to hear from the Minister that this is being discussed in the bosom of the cabinet. However, the cabinet needs to know more about this, because the bill is in the Lower House waiting for a second reading and the return right is also on the table, because we still have to get the opinion of both the government and the Lower House. Can the Minister say a little more about that? He can also say that they haven't made it any further and that they have. Well, that's an honest answer. But I'd like to know about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u233	I would have expected that question in one form or another and somehow. I see this as a major debate. I am standing here on behalf of the cabinet and I am not personally philosophizing here, although of course I have views on it. The honest answer is: yes, this is still being discussed. Mr Kox is right to say that these are not new elements that have emerged from the committee or the cabinet on how to make improvements to the whole system. Some things sometimes need ripening. After a few years, you might come to the conclusion that it might be an option. In particular, as far as the right to return is concerned, I have heard very unison views, albeit in different shades of colour, but in itself I hear a great deal of support for this proposal. Of course, it's a little tricky because you never know exactly how it's gonna work out. That has just been the subject of a debate. As far as the initiative proposal is concerned, I understand that the House of Representatives has now withdrawn it and that this is no longer a matter for the House of Representatives. It has been lying still for too long and is now formally withdrawn and is therefore no longer there. That was just the subject of a debate between you and Mr Ganzevoort. The idea is still there, but the proposal is no longer there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u234	They only do it in that frantic sister's room, just to say it in the words of legal scholar Buijs about the Second Chamber. If it is, then it is, but I find it very sad. This Chamber has adopted a far-reaching bill and then it just disappears into the House of Representatives. With regard to the right of return, I am pleased that the Minister says that he has heard something about this in this Chamber. I especially listened to the CDA spokesperson. There was movement in it. In that respect, I think we should expect further steps from the cabinet in the not too long term. Look, a constitutional court is still open to discussion, but for the return law in essence there seems to be a majority here. At what time can we expect anything from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u235	We have indicated earlier that there is some coherence as far as we are concerned. That is also what Mr Doornhof pointed out in his speech. I've also indicated earlier in the direction of the Chamber that you have to watch out for cherrypicking, before you pull out a thingy. But in itself it is a very nice element to make the whole legislative process more orderly and, at the same time, de facto strengthen the position of the First Chamber, because that is what I think it is. But I am a little cautious because there is no proposal from the cabinet for this. This is as far as I'm going to go about it. But I have listened very carefully to the views expressed in this Chamber on this point. Mr Kox is entitled to an answer to the question when we will come up with something. I'd say as soon as possible. That's where a number of groups point out the need to speed things up. The PvdA and VVD groups, but also other groups, were slightly irritated if I may see it that way and as far as it is expressed in this Chamber, because it is all very civilized of course. Look, there's no point in coming up with proposals that can't be supported. So it's en-and and not or-or. Speed is important, but support is also important and I am working hard on it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u236	I have a question about role and expectation management. The minister just said he's speaking on behalf of the cabinet. You are also here as a governor of the Interior, or actually as an alternate governor, at least now as a minister. You say not to speak in a personal capacity, but to have certain thoughts. I have a question about what is going to be worked out now and come in our direction as an answer. Can we trust that the same course will be followed when Mrs Ollongren returns as Minister of the Interior? Or can we expect changes if, for example, she also has certain personal views or as a ruler wants to set another course? Is this really the steady line we're going to expect from the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u237	For most administrators, they are human and official at the same time. I'm not a deputy minister. I'm just Home Secretary right now. Yes, I am. Maybe not tomorrow, but it's still me now. I do this as well as I can in the time I have been given. If Mrs Ollongren is back, hopefully soon; I wish her well, she will do so in the same way. Your question is whether there is political light between my views and those of Mrs Ollongren. As I said, all the proposals I or she will make in the future will have to go through the cabinet. It just so happens that we're both in there and a bunch of other people. So it's always a cabinet proposal that's there. So you don't have to worry about that. It's gonna be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u238	That is clear and, by the way, very much better for Mrs Ollongren. In any case, it is important that if you commit to something here today or indicate a particular direction, it is and will remain the firm cabinet line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u239	Yes, but I may have to disappoint you a little, because I will not give you so many concrete commitments today. I would do well to do so, but I think that if I make a commitment, I have to keep it. That is why I find this debate so interesting. A number of things have been started and consulted, but we have also implemented the Schalk motion. Especially when it comes to the position of the First Chamber, that is a rather interesting political argument. It can also be disputed, but I have read it in such a way that I understand that the First Chamber is in that position as regards the point where the First Chamber itself is concerned. That is why we have this debate. It is a major debate. In this whole legislative process, it is the House of Representatives who, of course, will be the first to start with the input for the report and with a plenary debate, which will then involve you in your debate. That whole process is gonna come. So there are still a lot of times when something can be said about that. Apart from Van Raak's own initiative proposal, all proposals, I presume, will come from the cabinet. The cabinet is not out yet. As soon as it is, it will submit a proposal of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u240	Mr Van Hattem, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u241	A very short question. There has already been some insight into the proposals that would come forward. Will, for example, the proposals in the second tranche on the corrective referendum still go to parliament before the 2021 Lower Parliament elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u242	That's a good question. I have actually heard everyone here in the first term say that the work of the State Committee is so important and the analysis is so broad shared, apart from all the recommendations that have been made, that you cannot just put this in the drawer, as someone said. I wasn't going to. The Cabinet doesn't intend to do that either. At the same time, it is the political reality that it is not the case that the measures are unisono within the coalition or even wider in the Chamber can all count on support. So there are two realities. I am well aware that if, for example, you only come forward with proposals in six months' time, because of the length of this cabinet's term of office and the elections next year, you will virtually never make it to the first reading. Since there is an ambitious cabinet and an ambitious minister, who really wants to make some of these good recommendations in the legislative process, we are therefore in a hurry. Only, I can't force majorities with steam and boiling water. Theoretically, it could be that there are no majorities and that there is no such support and that it does not happen. But I think it would be a defeat if we, with the 83 recommendations of which more than 50 are directed at the cabinet, were not able to come up with proposals to properly maintain, improve and strengthen Thorbecke's statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u243	From a justice point of view, I thought the next reporter was Mr Cliteur. Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u244	I'll keep it brief. Now that we are discussing the constitutional review, I am still concerned that it remains above the market that you can talk about that constitutional review independently of the treaty review, so that you can talk about Article 120 of the Constitution and you can ignore Articles 93 and 94. Apart from my own group, the only two groups that have raised this point are the Otten Group and the PVV Group. They both did very well. It makes no sense to talk about a constitutional court if you don't talk about the whole system of diffuse treaty review. I understand that the Minister may not be able to say the last word on this at the moment, but I would ask him to at least indicate that he has heard this and that he will also discuss this point in this way in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u245	I think that Mr Cliteur and other groups have made it very clear in their contributions that speaking about constitutional review has a different connotation and a different point of reference for everyone. In other words, there are many possibilities, both at the constitutional level and at the level of lower legislation and international law treaties, where if you would like to do something about a review of the Constitution, which is now not there in a formal sense, there are several ways to regulate it, which is a political choice. So if there's a proposal that has elements of constitutional review in it -- there's several variants possible -- that's well weighted, alternatives are mapped out, and that's shared with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u246	For me, there is still some light between how the Minister interprets the Schalk motion and how I read it. Since I think I'm always right about such points, I'd like to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u247	Well, that's convenient, because I always think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u248	Well, well, well. How do they say that in a western? This town is too small for the both of us! But let's see how close we can get together tonight. The Minister said something in the vein of saying that it is strange that we want to have this debate before there are any proposals and that this could happen by chance because it is also about ourselves. For me, that's not the point at all. The point is that this Chamber has taken the initiative for a debate on the parliamentary system at all. In good cooperation with the House of Representatives and the government, a committee that has been facilitated by the government has been set up. As soon as the report is available, of course we are also waiting for what the government thinks, but then we are the first to discuss it with the government, and in parallel with the House of Representatives as far as I am concerned, before the government itself comes up with all kinds of initiatives that are precisely in the area of this committee. It is not because it is about us that we want to say something about it all of a sudden, but because it fits in with normal circumstances that if we get a report at our request, we can also say something about it before the government moves forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u249	In substance, I shall deal with the Schalk motion. I will devote a great deal of time to this, because I can imagine that there are several questions about it. This is about the process and the title that you would or would have to discuss earlier. That motion is a political reality. It says: we do not want you to submit the legislative proposals to the Council of State until after a debate has taken place here. If there has been a debate here, a debate must have taken place in the House of Representatives, according to logic. So I'm very glad that within such a short period of time, the First Chamber has been able to facilitate that. But the fact that the initiative comes to that state committee from the First Chamber does not give the First Chamber a position under state law to demand that it be discussed at the front. This also applies to the legislative law of the cabinet. We have very normal procedures, both for Constitutional proposals and for ordinary legislative proposals. We can also use these procedures here. Especially now that this debate is already taking place, I agree with the added value of having this debate first and then continuing the process, but it is not the case that a new precedent has been created here where, in all cases involving the First Chamber or where initiatives come from the First Chamber, the cabinet should wait until it comes up with proposals. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u250	State law is true, but in normal circumstances it is so neat. I think that the Schalk motion was primarily a process motion that asked for it. The Minister says he is not going to make a commitment, but I have asked for an explanation, which is about the coherence of the three proposals on the Upper Chamber. The government itself says that you have to look at it in conjunction, but then it does not present it in conjunction. I asked the Minister to explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u251	I'll get back to you in my fifth block. I thought Mr Schalk said that the motion had already been largely implemented. The only thing we could not do is send that second letter because it is not yet ready, but otherwise I have tried to give substance to the thought of that motion. Once again, I am pleased that this debate can take place today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u252	If I understand correctly, the Minister has just said that there is an initiative from the Lower House around the corrective referendum and that the Cabinet thinks that this should perhaps be done. Following on from the discussion we have just had: if you take the initiative, you keep the lead. This obviously applies to the Lower House but not to a lesser extent here, although it is not about a legislative proposal but about another initiative concerning the State Committee. Could it be that if it is a bit sensitive in the cabinet, while perhaps majorities are showing up, here and/or there, the cabinet says: let an initiative come forward and we'll give an opinion on it later? That judgment is almost always a mandatory contradiction to state law. The cabinet can say, after an initiative law has been passed by both Chambers, I have experienced this before when I was in the cabinet myself. That a contradiction in theory is a freedom of state law, but that is not political at all. Can the Minister explain what he meant by saying that an initiative legislative proposal has been tabled on this matter? Does this mean that the cabinet itself does not take any initiative, heard the discussion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u253	That conclusion cannot be drawn by Mr Van Rooijen at the moment. I only note that there is an initiative proposal from the House of Representatives. I see that as a powerful tool of the House of Representatives to take control of itself. The term "direction" was mentioned earlier, against a mirrored lack of direction that the cabinet was accused of. That is a separate matter from what the cabinet itself could do. I cannot say anything about the substance of this, but I do know that, as far as the initiative proposal is concerned, this is the normal course of action. This is indeed the subject of an opinion from the cabinet. That is exactly what Mr Van Rooijen says. There are limits to what you can do politically with that. I did not want to weigh in substance what I and the cabinet think of Van Raak's bill. I have only noted that the Court has at least taken an initiative to come up with an initiative on this point, on which more parties have a certain view. I can only appreciate this initiative as such, regardless of its content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u254	Should I conclude from this that perhaps the cabinet, also because it may be a bit controversial, is not taking an initiative on this important subject for the time being? I have seen in the House of Representatives that several heavy legislative proposals were tabled and were also adopted which were already taken over by the cabinet. I won't give you any examples, but the Minister knows them. The right of initiative of the Lower House, even as it is used more heavily and more intensively, brings the legislative proposals here, after which the cabinet can only give a countersign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u255	That's correct. I'm just trying to distill what the question and the political point is. It is a fact that there is an initiative proposal in the Lower House. It is also a fact that this is not a proposal from the cabinet. We have a major debate here. I have just mentioned a number of measures that have been put in motion by the cabinet. On some of the proposals it is accusing us of doing so too quickly and of some of the proposals that it may take too long. I've explained why that is, because you have to have support. This is an initiative proposal on an issue on which the State Committee has also spoken. That right is simply there and that trial will take place in the Lower House. Eventually, that could lead to treatment in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u256	That means that the cabinet sometimes lets those trials go through. Conversely, I wonder whether this is sometimes a reason for a cabinet to take the initiative and keep the initiative itself, heard the discussions in both chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u257	In general terms, the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u258	Mr. Chairman. Let me return to the debate on the Schalk motion. We are not going to go into that in a moment. I agree with the Minister that what we have asked for is almost what is happening at the moment. We will hear when the second reading is likely to come. That's what we're waiting for. A number of other legislative proposals have so far been mentioned in the Minister's speech. I said in the first term that I saw in the first appreciation of the cabinet that there was consultation with the various actors. There is now also a law on political parties in preparation. Is there consultation with political parties on this too? Or is that something the government itself is going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u259	This will have been discussed with the political parties. Alignment and consultation and the consultation phase that goes with it are to get information about what you are dealing with and what the views are. Eventually, as a cabinet, you decide what the proposal will look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u260	These legislative proposals do what seemed to have been omitted in the first legislative proposal and what is discussed in detail in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u261	Mr Schalk's question is, in fact, whether I think he was not right to table a motion for a resolution which gives us this debate. That's kind of the underlying thought, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u262	What Mr Ganzevoort said and what I indicated in the debate at the time is that there has been a certain process. Something was delivered in 2014, namely the State Commission. The government itself indicated: do so through the Lower House and then we will take over. The First Chamber followed the government in that. I think it is very nice that we are finally walking back through the same route, so that everyone is heard. In that sense, I understand the Minister's constitutional point, but speaking out of the courtesy of this Chamber, this is the nice way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u263	I can only agree with that, even in the direction of Mr Ganzevoort, who has just said so. There is a constitutional reality and a reality about how you relate to the different Chambers. I repeat with conviction that I think this debate is very good for that reason alone. That does not mean that the views here could not have come to us in any other way, but this is not a small proposal. It's about something. It also directly affects the procedure of the First Chamber. So I'm glad we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u264	My group is particularly curious when the government will respond to the other proposals. I hear the Minister say that these proposals will only come when there is a majority. Is he talking about a majority in the bosom of the cabinet? If there isn't, are we supposed to wait until the end of the day or something? Or did the Minister mean something else by that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u265	If you're gonna come up with proposals, you're gonna want there to be reasonable support for that. Of course, that starts within the coalition. It's a cabinet of four parties. You want to make good deals about that. That is the reality, and that is what I am dealing with. That is what I mean by the support that is needed to eventually move towards the Chambers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u266	I have to understand this remark in such a way that only when there is a majority in the coalition for a particular proposal can the Chambers look forward to the work of the cabinet. The assessment of the situation by majority in the Chambers also depends on the content of the proposal. For example, the law on political parties can be very different from what we now think on the basis of the opinion of the State Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u267	Exactly. I am referring specifically to the coalition in the House of Representatives, because a number of speakers have rightly argued that no one here is committed to what is agreed in the House of Representatives and in the coalition. A self-contained consideration is made here. Mrs Vos also heard the debate. I have also heard the debate in the Lower House. If you're trying to look at a common denominator on proposals from the Remkes committee, there's a lot to choose from. Some say too much. This also means that there is no automatic support for a number of proposals, in the sense that everyone agrees on them and that we can continue with them. It makes no sense to use such a trajectory if you already know that something doesn't even make it to the Lower House, or that it brings political trouble. That is the reality in which we sit. That is the path that I have now completed and which Mr Ollongren started earlier. I hope this leads to something soon. Then we can go into the process. Then we can also ensure that some of Remkes' recommendations can be dealt with at first reading, in so far as it affects the Constitution, during this period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u268	What's "quick"? I am very curious about the way in which the cabinet is speaking. I asked if we could see the other effects of category B for Mayreces. Is that what that Minister means by "quickly"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u269	As soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u270	I have a question about the law political parties. The Minister just said that there have been talks with political parties. Did he mean Mr Veling who had a number of talks a while ago? What does the Minister mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u271	Before you come up with such a bill, you will of course focus on the frameworks and the elements that should be in it. That is what happened in the context of that process. If you ask me with whom exactly, where and how, I must remain guilty of the answer. I will come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u272	I myself discussed this with Mr Veling at the time and stressed the importance of not creating too high barriers to entry for new parties, because these new parties can still have a very important influence on the maintenance of political dynamism. My question to the Minister is actually twofold. Does the Minister intend to raise the thresholds for the accession of new parties currently present in the new Political Parties Act? What is the timing of legislation that the Minister for the Political Parties Act currently has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u273	This legislative process is still under way. You're already asking questions about exactly what it looks like. I must remain guilty of the answer to that. I don't know about that and I'll get back to you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u274	Is that bill gonna include the restraining order of the party?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u275	Yes. There's gonna be an arrangement for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u276	Then I suggest we give the Minister a chance to make a few meters. We're still in the second block, if I'm right. Is that correct, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u277	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u278	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u279	Indeed, we are still at the first tranche. A number of questions have been asked by the various Members. Mrs Vos wondered whether the proposals in favour of the cabinet would be converted into legislative proposals. Not all the recommendations of the State Committee call for legislation. A number of legislative pathways have been launched. This also implements a number of recommendations of the State Committee. The legislative proposal Clarifying citizenship assignment education has been submitted. Political parties are currently working on the law and the consultation will start in mid-2020, in a formal sense. In anticipation of the Wpp, a proposal to amend the Financing Act has been put into action by political parties. Work is under way on an amendment to the Municipal Law on Challenge Law. This was the subject of a legislative proposal for consultation last December. We're updating the so-called ukaze-kok. For those who don't remember: it was about instructions from the Council of Ministers on external contacts of officials. It'll be ready in the spring. The measures in the second tranche can only be planned once the necessary decision-making has taken place, which we have just discussed. I can't put time on that either. Let me give you an example. The amendment of the Tickets Act should be implemented as a result of the amendments to the electoral system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u280	I have a brief explanatory question. If there is no agreement within the Cabinet on the measures in the second tranche, does that mean that you will not respond or will the Chamber receive a notification like "we did not get out of this; do you do it yourself"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u281	I assume that we will regularly inform the Chambers of the state of play. It will then become clear which proposals will be taken up. The conclusion can therefore be drawn which of Remkes' recommendations are not taken up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u282	So, let me get this straight, we are not getting any proposals that the cabinet itself doesn't get out of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u283	No. That doesn't make any sense either. When the cabinet is out and comes up with proposals, these proposals are automatically put into procedure. We are not going to make proposals on something that we are not proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u284	Mrs. Fox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u285	The question is whether we will be informed of the proposals that you are not going to come up with for any reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u286	There is an exhaustive list of 83 recommendations from the Remkes Committee. There is one additional proposal, which was discussed in the first period. At the moment when a proposal is presented by the cabinet, which the cabinet is going to take up in order to transpose into law, it is also automatically clear which proposals are not yet clear. not be transposed into concrete legislation or measure at that time. I can't be any clearer. Mrs Vos asked earlier about a number of proposals that call for constitutional changes. That means you're tied to time. When it comes to the first tranche, it concerns the proposal on the method of election of the First Chamber. The second tranche concerns the proposal for the second reading of the Constitution to be dealt with by the United Assembly. Those are therefore constitutional changes, which have been included in the proposal which has also been discussed today. A third proposal concerns the way in which the members of the Supreme Court are appointed. Now that's ahead of us for internet consultation. In order to complete that first reading before the next elections, we need speed. The Council of State also has to give its opinion, and that is not something we have entirely in control of. Time is running out in a way. This means that we must soon come up with proposals on this point. In the second tranche there are a number of issues that require constitutional changes, depending on the exact choices, and then you are talking about the right to return, the constitutional review and the age reduction in voting rights, if that were decided. They also call for constitutional changes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u287	Back to the previous point. I was just a little late. Can the Minister explain his comment on the amendments to the Political Parties Finance Act? What are the main changes he wants to make to the Financing Act political parties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u288	If Mr Otten appreciates that, I can do that. I'll do it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u289	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u290	I don't suppose we're doing any legal treatment here. But I would like to be of service to Mr Otten on the main lines of what we are talking about here. Then there is a question from Mrs Vos about the government's ideas on electoral matters. What is the government taking over from the State Commission? The Cabinet shares the opinion of the State Committee that the present electoral system is essentially satisfactory. It's not about to collapse, but the committee said it could be better. The link between the electorate and the elected can be made stronger. In concrete terms, it has been proposed to introduce the system proposed by the Civil Society Forum some time ago. This means that the electorate will be given a choice to vote between a list or an individual candidate on that list. Such a system could indeed be a possibility. We also want to look at other systems that have been mentioned. That's what we're doing right now. If that's clear, we'll come back with it. Mr Ganzevoort wondered whether regional cohesion was a solution to the problem which some of the voters felt and felt was not well represented on the basis of an analysis by Remkes. Why does the Cabinet consider this regional connection to be important? As I said earlier, we consider it important that the electoral system should be in line with the desire to create a more intimate link between the electorate and the elected. The voter's vote on an individual candidate must be increased. That's the idea, including Remkes. There may be several reasons why voters have confidence in certain candidates. It may be that someone has a particular background, knowledge that is important, represents a particular group or comes from a particular region. It is not just about region, but such a system as the Civil Society Forum has devised can strengthen that link. In the end, it is the parties themselves who draw up their lists and generally take them into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u291	My question was not so much why regions are being considered. My question is whether only regions are considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u292	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u293	In any case, I read the Cabinet letter on this point. He speaks explicitly about this and not about other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u294	Yeah, that's a good point. I would also like to say that it is a debate of this kind, because it is not just about regions. It's about the link between the voter and the elected one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u295	Did I read the letter completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u296	No. I didn't say that. I will answer the question you are asking me. I mention a number of reasons and region is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u297	Just to clear up the exegesis. Is my reading of the letter that it deals with proposals for regional cohesion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u298	Yes. Regional bonding is one of the points Remkes is talking about. But it can also apply to other criteria. Ultimately, it's about being able to make a choice as a voter or vote for an individual candidate, which increases the specific weight of that individual candidate compared to the list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u299	I'm closing up. I'm going back to my place with some bewilderment. I have read the letter in such a way that there are proposals to strengthen regional links and that there are no proposals to strengthen, for example, the link with younger voters, or with younger candidates, older people or candidates with a migration background and so on. So I read that there are only proposals for regional union. The Minister says that this is not the only thing that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u300	Mr Ganzevoort does not need to be bewildered. That won't be necessary at all. We do not yet have a concrete proposal. In response to the Remkes report, I have made it very clear that there are several reasons why this band should be strengthened. One of the factors involved is the region. But it can also be because people feel better represented by a particular person. Region is an important point, because many people in the region do not feel that they are well represented, but it is not the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u301	They're all interesting elements that you can think about when you have a lot of time. When I was still completely unknown, because of my first name, I was the first woman on the SP list to get a lot of preferred votes. When it turned out that in Brabant you can be just a man and Tiny can be called, that's gone. But I have always honored that if I was on a list in elections today I am no longer on the list with the First Chamber of the House of Representatives in Tilburg getting the most votes. These are important elements, but the Minister points out that it is going to be rush-up. We have a lot of things to do. Should we give priority to this or actually focus more on the parts of which in this Chamber, but also in the House of Representatives, the probability is relatively high? I call on the Minister to investigate everything and do the right thing. But don't get carried away with those elements that aren't so important right now. Let us focus on the more important and promising elements. Is that a reasonable proposition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u302	What is important and what is not important? That depends on the conviction with which you stand here. I have listened carefully to the various contributions and I have heard from the representatives of the various groups that they appreciate it differently. What Mr Kox calls less important is something that other groups consider to be very important. This also applies: if there is support for it, if there is agreement on it, then you should try to convert some of those recommendations into actions. I have heard that the analysis that there is really something to improve is widely shared. It's 83 recommendations, which you can all weigh differently. I agree with Mr Kox that it is too simple to think that taking one or two measures will solve the problem. That's way too simple. The other way around, doing nothing isn't right. We are talking about the link between the electorate and the elected one, which the committee points out is that something needs to be done about it. I deliberately put it very broadly, because it applies in a general sense. Young people, the elderly, groups feel underrepresented. Then you'll hit the core of Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u303	I hear the Minister talking about the link with the region that needs to be strengthened through the candidate's line. If the cabinet really chooses the link with the region, why is that line with the candidate? The composition of the electoral lists makes it possible to fill that out very well at the moment. At the same time, the cabinet has a rather managerial attitude towards the regions with, as I said in my term, Regional Energy Strategies and municipal reclassifications that were continued from above last year. The link with the region often runs much more through the content than through the candidate. How are we supposed to see this affair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u304	It is not of-or, but also the content and the candidate and the recognizability. I have cross-border cooperation in my portfolio. I get into a lot of what we call the region: everything outside the Randstad. I can tell you that's a big area where a lot of people live. Those people sometimes feel less represented. Objectively, you can also see that there are more representatives from the Randstad than from the region. It really matters whether you come from the region or from the Randstad for how you look at business. When you talk about representativeness, that's really a point. The committee has also noted this. Mr Van Hattem cites the example of the RES and the way in which we work together. That is a very good example in which, together with the region, we have a number of objectives that we all have to deal with. I know that you think differently at national level with provinces, with municipalities, with other participants. That is a very good example where this management attitude does not play at all, but where you come to solutions together. Think about the regional deals. They are essentially in the governance, in the governance, all in such a way that we are going to do things together as governments. I'd say we should do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u305	The problem with these regional deals, with the RESs, is precisely that there is a compelling factor behind it. It is simply said to municipalities: if you do not place those wind farms, then the province must enforce it. If the province doesn't do enough work, it will be forced through the Empire. It is a collaboration with the knife on the throat, let us say, rather than a completely voluntary cooperation. Suppose a MP from the village of Lith on the Meuse near Oss, where a large wind farm of 80 wind turbines arrives in the backyard, comes with preferred votes in the Chamber. What difference can he make if the cabinet takes or forces such far-reaching measures on the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u306	A number of things are getting mixed up. The cabinet is the cabinet. The Second and First Chambers are Parliament. There are people in there who come from the region. I've been a Member of Parliament myself. At that time, I was addressed to matters that played in my region. You put them in debates. That's the value. That's also the feeling that a lot of people have. They no longer feel represented, because certain views are dominant which are no longer recognized in certain areas, despite the fact that the Netherlands is so small. I think that is very important. I think it is essential for a vital democracy that people feel that they belong to it, that they know where they should be when they have questions, not the idea that if they call you, you're going to do what they say, but you're going to come and you're going to listen, that in short, you're going to be a representative of the people. We can't be scornful about that. It's really a factor of significance. I can see for myself. I am a member of the cabinet and live 200 kilometers away from The Hague and I am glad to be in a different world from the Hague world every now and then on weekends. It is very cozy here, it is very entertaining and very important, but there really is a different world than The Hague. I cherish them and those experiences from there I take with me to The Hague. That's what people's representatives do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u307	Mr Van Hattem, on this point for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u308	I come from the region and I share that feeling with the Minister. I also bring a lot of things I pick up there. But someone in the Lower House becomes a spokesperson on a particular portfolio, for example youth care. He may look at the problems with the wind turbines on the spot, but he's not the one who's going about that. He's got a certain discrepancy in those areas after all. The cabinet has supposedly a very strong sense of the region in this proposal, but with many other proposals we see that the region can also be overruled. That is the essence of my question. Why do we not see this same compassion with the region in, for example, those Regional Energy Strategies? The cabinet can also say: if a region really does not want wind turbines, then there will be no wind turbines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u309	I'd like to make something right. There's no proposal yet. We are in the middle of a major debate here, and I am indicating directions. There's no proposal yet. That's one. Two: climate and nitrogen problems are problems that you have to solve with different governments. I speak from experience. This is sometimes difficult, because it is a balance of interests that must be worked together in a good way. Sometimes things have to happen that are necessary, but which makes no one very happy. Then you're gonna see how you can do that together. I see in the house of Thorbecke, in the traffic between the government, the provinces, the municipalities, the waterboards that a shift of tasks has taken place. I have just mentioned decentralisation where more responsibilities lie with the municipalities. This is about regional housing strategies, which are about the nitrogen approach, which can be about the energy strategies, where you really need to work together. Legislation is being adopted in The Hague, but it is not the case that the Empire decrees what needs to be done. That is really not the experience I have in many areas from the practical point of view. It's about housing. Katwijk just passed by: 5,000 homes have to be built there. Then we sit together with the provinces and municipalities to see how we can achieve that common goal. Frankly, I do not see the problem you are trying to raise in relation to the change of a electoral system in a particular direction. And again, there is no concrete proposal, but Remkes recommends to strengthen that bond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u310	I suggest that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u311	Mr Ganzevoort asked me to reflect on the youth parliament. It is not the case that the state committee has talked about a youth parliament. She mentioned a civil forum for young people. Because the name "youth parliament" has become known, all kinds of images have emerged of what such a parliament should do. Back to Remkes: what was important is that you look into the analysis to see how to increase the involvement of young people. I believe that Mr Meijer was talking about this, and that is what you are doing with people who have always been out there on their own. So that has something to do with volunteering, representativeness and how young people see it themselves. Over the last few weeks, I have been invited by both the National Youth Council and representatives of political youth organisations, and they were almost all talking about how they see this now. How do you see the future? How do you see we can do that, bearing in mind the state committee's report? Next week, we're gonna be back together and we're gonna think about a form in which that could happen. That does not have to be a parliament at all, although that image has now emerged. The point is that we think of a common divider that makes everyone happy and adds something to what is already there. 'Cause, of course, there's already a lot of things. There are all kinds of youth organisations, not necessarily political but also of other signature. How can you give young people a position where the Remkes Committee finds that there really is a gap there and that there is some sort of water separation between those who, because of their age, are not allowed to talk to them. That's what we're doing right now. What exactly that's gonna lead to? I'm very relaxed in it. I think it is particularly important that we take Remkes' analysis as a starting point. That was also shared by the young people I spoke to. The same debate that is taking place here is, of course, also taking place with young people on the question of how to shape it. Are we turning it into some kind of youth parliament? How's that going? Who will be chosen for that? How is that representative? Or should we not do that at all and should we think of another form that fits in with it? As soon as I have more information, I will, of course, inform you about it. But that is the situation at the moment. A number of questions have been asked about the law on political parties by Mr Van Hattem, Mr Dittrich and Mrs Vos. In the preparation of the law, political parties are required by the organisation and organisation. Tell me about the way you organize it and answer for what's happening. So not politically-contentual, but about the organisation as such. For a large part, these are rules that are already in place in the Financing Act for political parties, as well as demands that are already in the Election Act for the registration of the designation of the party name, for example. With regard to the requirements that the law may impose on the political parties of the internal organisation, the legislator is in a position to do so. If that bill is on the agenda, I would be happy to come to the debate with you on it. In order to ensure its independent review, the law establishes a new independent supervisory authority. The request for a possible ban on parties requested will also be made to an independent body. The option put forward by Mr Dittrich to allow that to be the Attorney General of the Supreme Court could be an option. The intention is to bring the proposal for a law on political parties into proceedings in the course of this year and to offer it to the Lower House before the Lower House elections. In anticipation of this, a proposal to amend the Financing Act is expected to be presented to the House of Representatives this spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u312	The Minister mentions a number of elements that may be contained in that law. I can imagine anything. But the motion for a ban on political parties is a little bit out of the question. We also have an idea about how we're going to invest that. But that seems to me to be a step too fast. We've never had that in our legislation. Parties can do whatever they want. This makes our party system different from that in Germany, where political parties are state politics Vereine. Now the government is going to come up with a bill stating that under circumstances a party can be banned. And it'll be invested somewhere. I think this is a step which I think should be taken: does the Minister perhaps also have time to talk to us about this? Because it will change the character of the Dutch party democracy, I will not say "infectiously" or "infectiously."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u313	The context of the whole: the legislative proposal is still in consultation so it is not yet in consultation and comes through here. If you look at what we were talking about, the resilience, the rule of law and the protection of the rule of law, it may happen if we are going to do this overnight, but of course that is not the case. There will be all kinds of safeguards, but it is something you should be able to do at the end of the day, under conditions, in order to protect the rule of law. That is something that Mr Kox is not happy about either, and I am not happy about it, but we need to talk about it. So that will also be part of the legal process. If people are asking how that goes and what the conditions are, then I am not going to answer them. I refer to it on request because it will be an element of it, but I cannot rule out the possibility that it will be changed on the left or right. You will see that in due course when the proposal is submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u314	It is good that the Minister says that it is still to be consulted, but I actually think that there is still a stage before the consultation, namely the stage that we are thinking about here. I think that's what you're doing with Parliament. As I said, we've never had this before. We are different from a country like Germany. That's what we deliberately chose to do. Political parties are not state-political associations here, but associations which organize themselves in the State and which are even allowed to speak against the State. That is an essential element of our political system. Once we consult it, we are going to take a very far-reaching step. In my speech, I said that the Dutch law and the Dutch judge, in my opinion, are competent to prohibit political parties, which are going to display characteristics of a criminal organisation. Who in the bosom of the cabinet has invented such a provision, which we have never had before and which I do not recall having talked much about in the past, to bring into the law? 'Cause I think it looks a little panicky. In my view, the resilience of our system is, at least, large enough not to have to lay down this element in a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u315	Mr Kox's direction, however. We are not going to legislate here at the moment; this is a major debate. I'm answering questions that I'm being asked. If this is the reaction, then I become a little more reluctant to speak freely about it. Why do I say that? This is one element of a very big law. We shouldn't take out that one element, as if that's why the law would work. It's one of the elements in it. There are many elements of existing laws that are merged into the new law. That should be an orderly legislative process: consultation, Council of State, Second Chamber... There are so many things that can happen in that. There's one thing you have to assume: there's been no light thinking about it. It's not like we'd be dealing with it tomorrow. But we cannot deny that the world has changed and also become more international. That is also one of the elements of the Remkes Committee: how can you increase resilience? That is also in the way you deal with political parties, where there is room and where the boundaries lie. Because that's actually the debate you should be having. Everything we say about that now seems to me to be inadequate in balancing it. So I would really like to say to Mr Kox: wait and see what comes to that point. I think it is good that I do not go into any more substantive legislative proposals. I get it, I might have done it, but I do not think that we are going to have a debate here prior to a legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u316	I didn't want to do anything disorderly. I also understand the Minister's saying this. But in addition to a lot of elements, which I can imagine will come into law, he adds an element that is completely new. I should also like to look in the direction of our honourable colleague, Mr Koole. But I think it is completely new that we would introduce into our Dutch law as a special part: how can we ban political parties? My only appeal to the Minister is to reconsider what we should and should not consult if it is still in consultation. You don't have to ask for everything, some things you just can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u317	Mr. Schalk, do you think it's okay for Mrs. Vos to go first, because I think she'd like to clarify something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u318	Let me give you an enlightening explanation. I have here "the Bible" in front of me. The Remkes Committee said in an opinion that there is now such a ban, but that the grounds are too vague. The Remkes Committee therefore recommends that there should be specific grounds for political parties. So it's not that it's not there yet, it's just too vague. This is just to shed some light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u319	Then I will go to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u320	Also on this point. I understand that the Minister does not want to go into the substance, but I think Mr Dittrich raised the question a while ago as to whether there would be a ban in that law. The answer was yes. That seems to me to be the point. Then I thought to myself for a moment: how about if that ban is put in place in a way that perhaps now means that there are parties in the Chambers that could no longer get there on the basis of such a ban? Will they then be sent away with retroactive effect at that time? How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u321	I do not think there is any reason to anticipate that now, in any way. That is legislation that is not yet in place. This legislation is being prepared. I believe that all the legal finesses must weigh up what is and what is not necessary to shape this reinforcement. Again, there are many elements of importance in that law. The Second and First Chambers can also differ on how far you can go. The opinion of the Council of State is important in this respect. I haven't seen the legal texts, like I said. To clarify what we are talking about: there are some chapters and it is not something that is already ready. That is why I realise that answering that question, with all its good intentions, may create something that will make you ask what it will mean. We're all gonna see that and we're all gonna put it in a proper and orderly legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u322	The Minister doesn't want to go into exactly what's going to come into that law. Understandably, if he still has to go to Lower House. However, the Cabinet letter makes it very clear that it falls within the limits of what is legally and morally permissible. Then I suppose the Minister of the Interior, as guardian of his department, has an idea of what should be legally and morally permissible? How does the Minister see this definition of the context in which a legislative proposal is now being drafted, apart from the exact content of the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u323	I'm sure you can assume that. You can expect the Minister of the Interior to operate in line with the Constitution and basic rights. So do I. In that sense I would like to say: relax, because here go no... The image that is now being generated is as if we are in a legislative debate and everything is coming up. No, there's no proposal yet. Of course, that has to pass the test of criticism. That's how you know us. We do not come up with proposals that are counter-emptive. We're not gonna do that. That whole stretch is gonna end nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u324	The concern is not so much that it would be counter empty. It's more about this to me. If it says here "something morally permissible," then the government will test what is morally permissible. How are we supposed to understand that concept, which is now literally in the cabinet letter? How are you going to determine what is morally permissible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u325	I think we should keep that question for a while before we deal with the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u326	Van Hattem, last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u327	So the Minister has no established concept framework or idea of what is morally permissible or who should decide what morally acceptable should be allowed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u328	Mr Van Hattem can ask a lot of questions on this point, but I am not going to say anything more about this. The reason is that it is about legislation and we should not take it off like a quickie. I understand the questions, I also understand the curiosity, but we have to do that seriously. Let's just let the whole process set up for that run its course. Then all these questions will come back on their own or they will be answered when you see the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u329	I'm gonna take a look at the timing. We have been working for almost an hour and a half and we have at least completed one sixth of the debate, the first block. We're somewhere in the second block now, if I've followed you closely. This means that this debate, if we continue with the interruptions at this rate, you will have all the freedom to do so until tomorrow morning. Let us at least now agree that this is the result. Then comes the second term of the Chamber and then the second term of the government. It is therefore perhaps an idea to have the Minister make a few meters, at least in block two, and to have him indicate when he has finished a block. So we can see where we stand. Is everyone okay with that? That's the case. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u330	Mr Van Hattem wondered whether EU disinformation policy would censor EU critical noises. For the Cabinet, it is important that the guarantee of fundamental rights should prevail, including in this section. They have repeatedly indicated that freedom of expression is the starting point. The same applies, of course, in the European context. A common effort by Member States and the EU institutions is needed to tackle disinformation, as this does not stop at borders. That is, of course, the hallmark of it. The EU Action Plan therefore rightly puts freedom of expression and open and free debate first and we continue to do so. So the answer is no, the action plan should not be used by national governments or EU institutions to contradict EU critical noises. Then I'm at chapter three. In addition to the cases initiated in the first tranche, we also want to introduce a second tranche of measures. As far as I am concerned, I indicated earlier that the direction is clear, but we still have to determine what this electoral system should look like. In response to the Lintmeijer motion, a vision of new forms of direct democracy in addition to and strengthening the present Dutch representative system is being prepared. It also looks at the possibilities of ex post constitutional review, i.e. judicial review of laws to the Constitution, which I have just discussed with Mr Cliteur. In that tranche, the cabinet also looks at the possible reduction in the electoral age to 16 years. This also involves the recent opinion of the Public Administration Board. We are looking at the introduction of a return right for the First Chamber. Before the summer of 2020, the existing legal framework for relations with the local authorities will be reviewed and the Lower House will be informed about the results. An evaluation of the various national bodies remote from ministries, i.e. ZBOs and agencies, is also being launched. The results will be known by the end of next year. You have seen and, hopefully, you have heard that the cabinet intends to work on the future stability of our parliamentary system. I am also convinced that this is necessary. The first measure that we have now launched is a good start, but I am not yet satisfied. If this were the result of the state committee, I would find that disappointing, because there were so many common views. At the same time, we are not going to transpose all this into legislation at once. This debate plays an important role in this and also the debate in the Lower House. These legislative pathways are going to run, both constitutional and normal legislation. This also means that the good news is that we are going to talk about a number of these proposals not only now but also in the near future. Some proposals will really need to be looked at in conjunction with each other. Others will have to be looked at much more on their own. They will all have to be looked at from the idea that if you add some of those elements, which at least in terms of structure should be able to make some improvements. Those tempi used to do so are partly dependent on acceptance. I don't make a secret of that either. I personally find the way in which both Chambers deal with this very positive, although the common denominators are sometimes difficult to find in the different views that emerge. But the trajectory is about something. It's been a long time. Two years have been done on the analysis and the recommendations, and we must now be swift and careful, and we are still in a time squeeze with everything that affects the Constitution. That's just a lot to ask. I understand Mrs Vos' question, which says: "Would you please tell me when you will come to the doctor with your water?" I'll say as soon as I can, and that's not meant to be silly. If we can do it tomorrow, we'll start tomorrow. But, of course, we do have the fact that, if this does not happen before the summer, we should actually conclude that, in the case of constitutional proposals, it is simply not feasible anymore. So there's a lot of pressure on that, and I'm experiencing it, too. I hope others will do the same, because I hope that will lead us to come up with these proposals in the near future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u331	Mrs. Vos, don't you want to yell from the benches? Walk to the interrupting microphone, please. That's fine. Mrs. Vos has an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u332	Thank you for this interruption. Do I understand that you want to do the second tranche with effects for the summer and that the legislation requiring a change to the Constitution will also come to the Chamber before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u333	The latter is the case anyway. You can do it afterwards, but then you know that the first reading will no longer take place in this parliamentary term of office, before the elections of the House of Representatives. So we're going to have to do that in time. Of course, the letter that is to be sent also applies, in response to Mr Schalk, to the fact that we need to see this in conjunction with the agreements that we are about to make and the measures that we will be able to take. If we have that clear, we will come up with a letter as soon as possible, regardless of the formal legislative process, to keep both Chambers informed of how far we are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u334	Is it realistic that the development of the second tranche, Category B proposals, should come before May and that the legislative proposals, which are also all in B, should come before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u335	In the case of normal legislative proposals, I say: as soon as possible and where there is support for it. I don't want to link that to the summer. That summer is very important because you have to come quickly with everything that has to do with the Constitution. Otherwise, you won't make it in time. For the rest, we're not gonna do anything and it's gonna be over. There are 83 recommendations from Remkes. We are not going to transpose them all into legislation at once, either because there is no capacity or priority for this or because there is no political support or a combination of both. So you're gonna prioritize. You've got tranche A and you're gonna do it. Then you go to tranche B. We also have tranche C, which this cabinet is not going to do anything about anyway. I indicated earlier that I would like to come up with as many good proposals as possible as soon as possible. It's not just about time, it has to be done carefully. It seems practical to me that we do so in the form of a letter. That really doesn't have to wait till the summer. Sometime in March, and if that's possible earlier, we'll give you a stand-by on the state of affairs, so that the Chambers are informed and you know from the dashboard what the state of affairs of the various proposals is and what stage they are at. I do not feel that this will be the last debate on this issue. This is so touching on the existential side of the parliamentary system that I think it is right that we should not leave it at that. Anyway, that's what the Chamber itself is about in the end. Mrs Vos wondered what the government's view was on the correct binding referendum. We have just had a debate on Mr Van Raak's initiative in the House of Representatives. At the moment, the cabinet does not take a final position on this. There are very different views on this referendum. The cabinet has to operate carefully in that. However, we would like to explore further the forms of direct democracy, such as the correct binding referendum. In this way we want to give substance to the Lintmeijer motion, which was adopted earlier in the Chamber. This motion calls on the government to come up with an initiative for a vision of new forms of direct democracy to complement and strengthen the current Dutch representative system. This further consideration of the cabinet also takes into account the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State on the Van Raak initiative proposal to amend the Constitution with a view to the introduction of the remedially binding referendum and the questions raised in the report. The cabinet is still considering its position on this specific legislative proposal and will make it known as usual when the proposal is discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u336	These components are also announced in the second tranche. Does this mean that these items will be brought forward by the Cabinet at least before the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u337	No, I just said that in reply to Mrs Vos. There are also proposals that still need to be weighed up. A proposal will only become a proposal if it is presented by the Cabinet as a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u338	We cannot therefore assume with certainty that the Cabinet will come forward with proposals before the summer that will ensure more direct democracy and also the remedially binding referendum, which is now an initiative proposal, but which is also part of the recommendations of the Remkes report and which are also mentioned in the second tranche.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u339	You can't assume that. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u340	Obviously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u341	Mr Ganzevoort asked if I could give a tip of the veil on how the government intends to increase the degree of direct democracy in the Netherlands, in line with the answer just now. In the motion in which the First Chamber requests that this view be presented in addition to the current system, the cabinet is very keenly considering the discussion on the referendum. We are also looking at our position with regard to the initiative proposal and what is in line with it, even if you could model it differently than you yourself come up with a proposal or perhaps as Remkes intended it. We want to operate on that very carefully. However, we are in the process of coming up with proposals in the Lintmeijer motion to see how to promote a civil forum, a citizen's amendment and e-democracy. We aim to include that reaction in the progress note that is still to come. You can still see that letter. I assume that letter will reach you before the summer. I think that's a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u342	That was my question. For the summer sounds like "June" to me. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u343	Since Mr Schalk's daffodils have been growing, I don't remember either. It could be sooner. Mr Van Hattem asked: if the cabinet would come up with proposals to reduce the electoral age to 16, what does that mean for juvenile justice and for other legislation we know where the age limit of 18 now applies? I cannot anticipate the cabinet's position at the moment. If that were to happen in a general sense, then I can say that there are a lot of age limits in different types of legislation. Think about alcohol and driver's license. We do not all link them to the right to vote. The fact that you are moving in one direction does not automatically mean that this also has consequences for other legislation in which age is a criterion. Mr Cliteur and others considered the question of constitutional review in detail. I found Mr Cliteur's contribution extremely interesting. He raised the question: what about the balance between democracy and the rule of law? His conclusion was that there was an imbalance. I would say: it is a question of whether it was completely balanced. Otherwise, that report wouldn't have been necessary. Now to say that it is totally unbalanced, that is just the question. The essence of the issue he raises is something that is interesting to discuss within the areas of this debate. It is essentially about how you weigh and how the relationship between democracy and the rule of law should change. It is true that, if you give more space to protect the citizens, this will have consequences for democracy. I do not think there is a fundamental imbalance, but it is not for nothing that the Remkes Committee has made a number of recommendations on this issue too. You asked how it all works and what variants might be there. I think this, having heard the views here in the Chamber and knowing how the views in the House of Representatives are about this, is one of the subjects that everyone should find something about, because it is an important element. But I do not immediately see a great deal of consensus on how this should be done. Let me put it this way in a procedural sense: if there were any proposals on this question, that question was asked earlier by Mr Verkerk, it is important, if you are to make a choice for some variant, to include other variants that can also play, from Article 120 of the Constitution to other ways in which that could be done, and to justify why you are putting forward such a proposal. But again, it's not that far. This is one of the topics that is currently being discussed. Moreover, like the Halsema initiative proposal, there is another proposal from then Member Taverne. This was about the relationship between national treaties and international treaties. This has been withdrawn by the House of Representatives. I believe that there has been an agreement on how long such a proposal can remain on the shelf. If that's too long, they'll be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u344	When I listen to the Minister's answer, I get the impression that the Minister will deal very seriously with the questions surrounding the Constitutional Court, and at least with the review, but that it might best come in the very long term. In my opinion, strengthening the rule of law is one of the fundamental things. I understand that the Minister can't say exactly when, but can he still promise to speed that up? I would like to invite him to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u345	In any case, I can promise to do so, because it is not just up to me or the cabinet, as I have just said. Mr Cliteur's interruption just now also made it clear that you can come up with a proposal, but that this is so much tied up, especially when you refer to Articles 93, 94 and 120 and the international treaties, that there are different forms conceivable. Mr Doornhof referred to an option where the ordinary judge should also be able to do so by repealing Article 120 of the Constitution. That was some kind of suggestion from him. That would also be possible, which would result in this review being carried out. I think you have to work out such an important subject that legally really has different consequences. There is no political brake to slow that down or anything. There is no political intention to do so. Can you make something that can count on support and workable? That question is important to me. The most fundamental discussion, not only now, but also in the past, is perhaps how to see this in relation to the Second Chamber, the First Chamber and possible constitutional review. Perhaps we should not put any pressure on such a subject in the sense that it would have to be done very quickly. But if there is support for it and if there is a workable model, then we just have to work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u346	In any case, I share your view that it is important that the choice made is of good quality. If that takes a little more time, we are fine with it, but we would like to make a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u347	I can only agree with the latter. I was also under the impression that we are going to talk about this more often. That wouldn't be wrong, by the way. This debate will undoubtedly be followed again on the other side, on the other side. The discussion that took place here tonight also sharpens the insights about the advantages and disadvantages of the different variants and how you weigh them. So this really seems to me to be a subject that is going to come back, perhaps not to the proposals of this cabinet, on which a debate is also taking place in this House. I can just imagine. Following that, Mr Dittrich, Mr Verkerk and Mr Van Rooijen asked how the constitutional review would proceed. If there are proposals for this and there are several variants for that, we will of course inform your Chamber about it, and also about the consideration of why a variant would have been chosen. I have just promised that, but that is not yet on the agenda. We're not there yet. If that is the case, I shall, of course, inform your Chamber about it. I had already discussed Halsema, at least the initiative proposal. Then I come to point 4. That is actually the point made by a number of Members, namely that it is not just about simply implementing recommendations, but also about attitudes and culture. We have just talked about this. In fact, this evening's debate is already an example of this. I have heard different parties reflect on the position of the Upper House, because of course there are also the spotlights on it. It all came into being here. The idea came into being here. There were sometimes political intentions behind this. Well, there were political intentions behind that, but from different orders and directions. It is precisely the way in which this evening has been discussed, where several of you have reflected on their own methods, that I think is proof that it is also a matter of attitude and that you do not just do it with structures, electoral systems and so on. Now we all know that culture is something that is sometimes elusive. It's about people and about attitude, but it also means that sometimes you have to step over your own shadow to listen to the arguments of others and think "that sharpens my own insights" and "that's something." I've already felt that a little bit tonight. I believe that's what Remkes talked about in the conversation with your Chamber. That's the way we should talk about it. That is different from just entering the arena here with biased views and no longer deviate from your point of view. I think that is also the heart of a debate. The core of democracy is not only speaking and sending, but also listening. That's what this is all about. I therefore endorse Mr Verkerk's view that it is also about that democratic, constitutional culture and not just about how you regulate it. Let us bear that in mind when new debates are held on this issue. Then the position of the First Chamber. I shall then come back to speak on the Schalk motion. There is, of course, a natural division of roles between the two chambers, which has grown organically over the course of the two centuries. It looks at policy-making and the legislative process, including the whole process of ground law. It's not entirely unwritten. The Constitution does indeed provide points of reference. For example, the First Chamber does not have the right of initiative or the right of amendment. In this context, Mr Kox has often been referred to me as Minister Donker Curtius. He opposed Thorbecke's idea of abolishing the First Chamber, because it would have no added value. He replied already in 1848: "that in general the utility of the First Chamber, however composed, lies more in preventing evil than in founding good." In practice today, this role is mainly reflected in the great attention paid to the legality, feasibility and enforcement of legislative proposals, but at the same time, of course, the First Chamber is also simply a political body. That's what came up tonight. It's just a political organ. When people say "it's too political," you might say that you may not be doing other things right, but it's just wrong to deny that there's political practice here. That is not the reality. It is true that the reflective role of the Chamber stands in a kind of balance relationship to political profiling. So you could say that one doesn't always relate to the other. That explains the reluctance that we often see in the Chamber's attitude, even this evening, I must say. If you don't spend so much time in the Upper House, then it's special to really encounter a different way of debating than in the Lower House. It is also interesting to show again the value of the two-chamber system. Of course, we often say that the First Chamber is becoming more and more political. I think that is also true in part, but fortunately the Upper House is not yet a derivative or copy of the Lower House. Not at all, I'd say. I don't think we should want that either. Then the term of office of the First Chamber. The often cited Curtius was responsible as minister for the introduction of the stepped election of the First Chamber, at that time already, in 1848. It was also considered appropriate at the time that a Chamber of reflection, a Chamber of review, was not a derivative of the political, dominant representation in the Lower House. It was then found that this extended term of office was also appropriate. That was nine years ago. In 1922 it was shortened to six years. It is true that the present method was adopted in 1983. It's just a direct link to the election of the Provincial States, whether you like it or not. Due to the dependence in the sense of political support of the First Chamber and the increasing weight of the First Chamber, you can see that this has made the Provincial State elections a kind of vehicle for the First Chamber elections. This has made things much more political. The cabinet's proposal to extend the term of office of members of the First Chamber and thus to achieve the decoupling of the Provincial State elections is therefore also part of this proposal, because it does justice to both bodies. In fact, the State Committee did not recommend returning to the system before 1983. They have noted, however, that the differences in the political composition of the Chambers are increasing and that support for government coalitions in the Upper Chamber is decreasing. The committee does not expect that a return to 1983 would really matter. The proposal that we have made as a cabinet is therefore not motivated by the desire to act against the development that the State Commission signals. With the current electoral method, we see that the Provincial State elections are becoming more and more the character of First Chamber elections, because they are one-on-one linked in terms of results. And yes, the consequence is that the First Chamber sometimes has a more recent electoral mandate than the Second Chamber. The difference in constitutional status between the Second and First Chambers is largely determined by the method of election. The developments I have just outlined lead to an increase in the political character of the First Chamber in the imagery. Think also of all the top-level debates that take place at First Chamber elections with Provincial State elections. There is less attention to provincial themes. It is more about themes that also play a role in the Lower House elections. In the end, when it comes to the First Chamber elections, you must go to a system in which that self-employed position also comes fully into its own. The question is whether this happens thanks to the current way of choosing. That is why we have made this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u348	Mr. Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u349	The Minister does throw a few things at a lot. It's good to pull it apart a little bit. On the one hand, he talks about burdening the provincial state elections with a national aspect. I understand that point. That's quite a point to consider. At the same time, I hear from provinces that the advantage of this is that people are at least interested in those elections. That may not be the case otherwise. There's one layer we could be talking about. This is in fact separate from the entire Remkes report, which states that it is only about the parliamentary system and not about the other layers of government. There is another type of argument, namely that the position of the First Chamber changes. That's what the Minister's basic point of view is. I would actually suggest to the Minister that in this debate they should be better distinguished, because they are different types of arguments. One fits in with the question of what the position of the First Chamber is, while the other, namely the national politicisation of the Provincial State elections, does not really fit in with this argument. So I find it confusing that now it's just a mix-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u350	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u351	The last thing I want to accomplish is a confused Mr. Ganzevoort. No, it is unmistakable that these Provincial State elections, and immediately following the First Chamber elections, have become much more rural, as a kind of test case, measure, which makes these national subjects very prominent on the agenda. And actually, those national list-leaders debates are the best example of that. It's about provincial state elections, but we're going to have national list-leading debates. I would like to say almost the opposite of Mr Ganzevoort, namely that it is precisely because of the massive attention given to these rural themes, which are always much more appealing to the imagination, that it is very difficult to bring these provincial themes to the fore. In the Provincial State elections, of course, the turnout rates have always been a problem. They can be improved. You can walk around that, although I am not saying that you do, but the link between the electorate and the elected party is also under pressure. This does not help by making that station so nationally dominant after the Provincial State elections, namely the election of the First Chamber, that those Provincial State elections are not actually anymore a Provincial State elections, with the exception of a few regions where a provincial profile is still being built, but much more a kind of shadow-Second Chamber elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u352	My confusion is not so much in the content. I can imagine these arguments, and I did not say that I am for one or for the other. I did say that it is simply about the sensuality of the debate in the sense that the discussion about what this way of choosing with the Provincial States is a very different type of argument when it comes to the position of the First Chamber. The only thing I ask of the Minister is that these two arguments, on the one hand what it does with the Provincial States and on the other hand what it does with the First Chamber, should not be put together seamlessly. All I'm asking for is cleanliness of argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u353	I would almost say that sensuality of argument is at the heart of the debate here. That's another way to weigh it. You have provincial state elections and those provincial states elect the First Chamber. Those Provincial State elections are at the same time throughout the Netherlands, and therefore also the election of the Upper House. This therefore means that the First Parliamentary Elections, as secondary elections of the Provincial State elections, are defined as national elections. They are taking place at the same time and it is about the election of the First Chamber and the support for the coalition. That is the political point, of course. This means that the independent position that the First Chamber should have as a chambre de réflexion vis-à-vis the Second Chamber, where the political primate lies, is actually overtaken. That one election at that one moment makes sure that you actually get some kind of derived Lower House elections. That is never meant to be, but that is the effect of how things have been going lately. Mr Ganzevoort cannot deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u354	I'm getting more and more curious about those conversations that take place in the bosom of the cabinet. Apparently, we've had animated conversations about this. You can tell it all that way, but all elections are politics. If you vote for the city council, Mark Rutte will come along and Lilian Marijnissen will. That is what happens in the European elections. That's how we do it. So I think this is a sought-after argument, especially for what I have just said: the cabinet still has so much to do and we still have so little time to do. If we're gonna make meters, we're gonna have to be chosen. Why does the cabinet choose something we have not talked about here? We are, after all, more or less direct objects in this discussion. Then you're gonna think, "What was it?" The Minister began by saying: of course this Chamber is political, that is the essence of it. Why are all those rulers in that bosom so concerned about this and not about the elements which, according to the state committee and probably according to a large part of the Second and First Chamber, should now be a priority? My proposal would be: talk about this again later, this is really not relevant and interesting at the moment; it only takes time and we do not have that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u355	I think this is an extremely relevant subject. The Remkes Committee did not make a recommendation on this in this form, but pointed out that there was something there. That's no reason for the cabinet not to... I just heard views about directing and taking initiative. The world does not end with the Remkes report, of course, and neither does the thinking. In the past, however, the proposal for this system has already been seen very well by state lawyers. You can, of course, differ and you can weigh differently how you see it. That may be "insane," "untimely" and that kind of wording really does not seem to apply here. You cannot deny that there is, of course, discussion about the relationship between the First and Second Chambers and the role. That was also the debate here. I have actually heard all the parties say that in reflection. In my opinion, I have even heard Mr Kox say that it should not be the case that parties here in the First Chamber are bound by coalition agreements, stressing that the First Chamber really has an independent position. The strange thing is, of course, that in this whole event around the elections and the way we organized them, it really matters whether Mark Rutte is in a national television debate as leader of a political party or visiting Lutjebroek. The impact of this is really different. It is also seen as a kind of test case or gauge for a sitting cabinet, including the coalition in the Chamber that supports that cabinet. This is indeed the way to establish a link. Once again, you can weigh that differently, but Mr Kox cannot deny that this has really been subject to change over the years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u356	Then I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u357	If I'm being addressed with "Mr. Kox can't deny" and "fact is," I always think I'm arguing with Americans. Of course I can deny that! I've been in this room for almost 20 years. Then I think: this point has never been raised. So it's nice that the cabinet has been practicing this. If the cabinet has time, I am fine with that, but we have not asked for it and the House of Representatives has not asked for it. Nor have I heard the people ask for this. At most Halbe Zijlstra will have thought it was a good idea, because he had another plan with this Chamber. Those periods are over. We've got a grown-up Duthler motion. So my comment in the direction of the government remains: focus on the things that are relevant at the moment and do not come up with things that have not been asked for. I don't dispute that there's a reasoning behind it, but sometimes you just don't have to do things because they're not covered yet. You have to do the things Parliament and society are asking for. So one more time, you don't have to come up with this kind of bill. It's still in the consultation phase, I thought. Well, think about it again and say, we've consulted and figured we have more important things to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u358	Once again, I respect the different views expressed by Mr Kox. It is true that he has been around for a long time and it is possible that this has never been discussed in this way. "Don't come up with proposals we didn't ask for." That's not the state-law relationship. I mean, we regularly come forward with proposals you didn't ask for. Then you will find some of that and you will be able to give an opinion on it. That's fine. That's the way it's supposed to be, otherwise I'm gonna be very calm right now. So we're just gonna keep running. We've come up with some good proposals. We'll think about that. It's really not like one person came up with that. This has also worked well in the Netherlands for years. So it's not that crazy to think about that at all. This is not a radical change either; it is something you have experienced in the past. Again, you can think differently. I am also very interested in your views, as far as I have not heard them in the first term. But this has been considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u359	That last sentence worries me completely: 'it has been thought about'. I would have liked to downplay it, in Dutch, by not denying you the right to make a proposal that was not recommended by the Remkes Committee. I notice that, unlike most of the discussions we had today, you are almost a fervent supporter here, from the bosom of the cabinet, of the idea of going back to 1983. I note that we have been silently in a new system for almost 40 years now. This is not fundamentally different from the previous system; I would like to admit that. I have a question for you about the following. You have the right to make proposals, even if they were not recommended by the Remkes Committee. But this afternoon in one sentence, which I read very slowly, I also included the Hoekstra motion. I am concerned that a proposal not made by the Remkes Committee is linked to a proposal made by the Remkes Committee, possibly a unified second reading meeting. That is what you are going to do with a proposal on the return right, which the committee has done but has not yet taken over the cabinet, put in one basket. That's very strange, because you'll make two proposals. You don't know what the third is yet, but it's in a basket of three. Does that mean that the first two will have to wait for that proposal on the return right that has not yet been made? If this is the case, I would ask you to inform the cabinet that a motion for a resolution by Mr Hoekstra has been adopted on this point to make individual proposals. So you can imagine everything, but you shouldn't throw them in baskets and pair them up, because that might be a boomerang. I'm giving that warning because it was a broad-based motion. If we are in favour of one thing and we are not in favour of the other, then you should not come up with a combined proposal, because that does not contribute to bringing forward a proposal that we agree on together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u360	It is interesting that this motion, especially in a chambre de réflexion, where especially not by a straw but in integrality is still as polite as if it should not be possible to come up with baskets. But I heard you right, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u361	That is a short answer to a somewhat longer question. I don't understand why the cabinet... When I read that, I also thought: God, they're very... Excuse me. I thought, "They're really hard learners." They come up with something that nobody's talked about for a long time. Mr Kox said so, and I fully agree with that. It is only after the elections of the Provincial States that the cabinet thinks: well, we have to look ahead. We're taking back something from 40 years ago. That's a way of looking ahead for this cabinet, and we're just gonna do this. And what do we do? We put that in a basket with two other proposals, because all three are about the Constitution. Don't do that. Why do you do that? Would you like to do something with that because there's something else in that same basket that we do want? Then perhaps nothing will happen at all, and that is not at the heart of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u362	No. I think that is also a good point from Mr Van Rooijen. I got that right. This is a major debate. We are putting forward a number of proposals that come into procedure. You'll listen to me if the cabinet is handling this properly, but I heard you right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u363	Thanks for that move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u364	Mr. Van Rooijen, may I ask you to be brief?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u365	Yes, Mr. Chairman. If I may ask one more question: are you prepared to take back to the cabinet whether, in view of the Hoekstra motion, it would not be wiser not to establish that link and not to put that proposal back to 1983 in a basket, but perhaps at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u366	I'm gonna weigh everything that's been discussed here today, of course, I'd almost like to say, but then I'm gonna cut everyone short. I want this element to be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u367	When there are force words in my home, I always say, less fine. But luckily, an apology was already made. I have a question. It actually goes back a bit to the reflection we should have here. 'Cause I haven't actually seen a bill yet. We've heard things. Tonight, the Minister has paired it quite firmly with the Political Chamber, I shall say, as if it had been less political in the past. But the first thesis I would like to place is the following. When two parties had 45 to 50 seats, so to speak, there was very often simply voting according to the party lines. We didn't call that "political." And now it's all a little tighter, we call it "political." I'm really wondering if that's a real difference. That's the first thing. Another aspect of this political weighting is this. We've only heard it, but imagine we'd go back to a situation where half of the Chamber is elected every three years. After the Provincial States have been elected and they have or have had to choose half of the Chamber, we already know what will then be elected by them in three years' time. Wouldn't that be hugely political? Wouldn't that set a huge political threshold?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u368	I shall begin with Mr Schalk's first point. He said, "We haven't seen a bill yet." Yes, that was exactly the implementation of the Schalk motion, that we are here now, while that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u369	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u370	Good. I take that as a compliment instead of a reproach. On the other point: I do not have much enthusiasm here, at least those who stand up and speak are quite critical of the fact that we are now proposing something that has worked well for a number of years, and also the argument that goes with it. In the end, it comes down to which form you choose. I should also like to comment briefly on the substance of your points. But this is a major debate. This is the main direction. We will really have to see what that means in the elaboration. You also made comments on this in the first period. I'd like to put that outside the box now. But the fact is that as a cabinet we come up with proposals and think about them. We are almost pretending that the Remkes Committee is not here, but that is precisely why we are standing here. Something's going on. You can disagree on which proposals are more priority than others. What the most important proposals are depends on the group you represent, I have heard this evening. I have also heard groups which think this is a good proposal. But that has to be weighed when it is on the agenda. I believe that I am in the direction of Mr Van Rooijen where is he now? Oh, he is now standing behind that in the Chamber, and he has just spoken of clear texts about his warning regarding that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u371	Then I'm going to see Mr. Otten. No, Mr Schalk has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u372	Very briefly. I heard one party this afternoon that might have been there for it. Maybe I didn't listen very well. Anyway, aside from that, I have a question. Does the Minister not agree, or does he agree, with me that if you choose half of the Chamber now and already know what will be elected by the same Provincial States in three years' time, it will be far more political than what we have at present? This will allow a forthcoming cabinet to wait a while with all kinds of legislative proposals, because we know what will happen in three years' time. You might as well make it a lot more political.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u373	I don't think so. Every proposal has advantages and disadvantages, of course, but I do not think you are making it any more political than it is now. I would also like to say that 'political' is not a dirty word in this regard. It's politics here. But it is mainly about the relationship between the First and Second Chambers and the relationship between the Provincial States and the Upper Chambers. That is the reason for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u374	I was triggered when the minister said that these were actually provincial state elections that became First Chamber elections. As far as I'm concerned, that's true. Now I've been looking. The Minister is four years younger than myself. I've been following politics for a long time. Can the Minister tell me where he felt there was provincial elections in which national politics did not play a role and everyone was enthusiastic about all kinds of provincial themes and provincial list leaders and decided on that basis? Because I can't remember that, with my slightly older age than the minister. I am very interested in what the minister was referring to: when would it not be that the national leaders played an important role in the provincial elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u375	No, but I think that has always played a role in recent years. It's only become more prominent. This also has to do with narrow majorities in the Lower House and the majorities needed in the First and Second Chamber for legislation. I think it is partly the spirit of the time, where the central, national debates are much more prominent than they were a few years ago. Visits by national politicians are of all times. But comparing the situation now with ten years ago doesn't give us these big differences. That is precisely why we are proposing a different system in this area. That's from before 1983. At that time I was not aware of the effects on that system, and I do not think Mr Otten was either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u376	Well, as long as I'm following politics, somewhere in the mid-1970s, I've always had the idea that the nation-state leaders are deciding the provincial state elections, maybe with a few exceptions in the south. That's not from yesterday. But what exactly is the problem of the cabinet, which means that people want to throw everything away? We have a lot of new people in this room now. There is also a group of new people; I myself have had some involvement in this. What's the problem? I see a parallel with your predecessor, Ollongren. She sees two referendums that are not entirely in line with the D66 agenda and is abolishing the consultative referendum; I hope I did not just say something wrong for the SGP. Now there's some new people coming into the Upper House. Well, what's the problem? Why is there such a panic reflex from the cabinet to throw everything on the shovel right away? Why? Where's that defensive attitude coming from? I would like a little more clarification from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u377	I would rather call it an offensive attitude, certainly not a defensive one, in which everything that the Remkes Committee has advised leads to change. They didn't advise on this. That's right; I've recognised that before. But let me say again: they have spotted it. They didn't recommend proposing this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u378	Wouldn't you like to comment from the audience, Mr. Kox? Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u379	On the left, I'm a little hearing impaired, so I just heard a little noise. I just argued that the influence of the Provincial State elections by the fact that they have increased in importance... You could say that they have increased in importance to determine whether or not a cabinet can count on support in both chambers. That's the central theme every time. So it's a test for the incumbent coalition. The development of national debates on national issues, as was the last time, when it really was about the Provincial State elections, is proof of my view that it was not so much about the state elections and that it was also difficult for many voters to understand the links between the themes in their province and the members of state they were going to choose. Then there is the stepped form that, of course because of the system, hides behind it, which makes the members of the States choose the First Chamber members. This means that the relationship between First and Second Chambers in relation to the state elections has really changed. Despite the fact that the system remains the same, you can see that society is changing. It's not a panic reaction at all. It's just one of the proposals we're making, like 83 made by Remkes. We are trying to get some of that through the Chambers with support, so that they lead to legislation. As I said at the beginning, we want to strengthen and improve the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u380	My question to the Minister is: do you have the app Seat Distributor?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u381	No, I don't have the app Seat Distributor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u382	The app Seat Distributor uses everyone here. From the Seat Distributor you can see that this proposal will end in the Upper House. You have just said in a small debate with me that you are only going to send proposals to the Chamber that are going to make it. You already know this isn't gonna make it. I can save you the trouble. You don't have to send it in because it's not gonna make it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u383	I did not say that we are only going to come up with proposals to get them in the First Chamber. Then I would also wrong the First Chamber, because of its own position. The Chamber may have its own opinion on that. We'll weigh it down, but it can change, too. It starts with a proposal. You're looking at support. You're looking at support in the Lower House. If it is to lead to legislation, then of course you are trying to work towards acceptance in the First Chamber, but I did not say it as Mrs Vos just put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u384	The Minister also said that there is a great deal to be done. We also have a lot to do. I would nevertheless like you to consider working only on those legislative proposals and only on those proposals that you know are going to make. It saves you and your official staff a lot of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u385	Exactly on this same point. In an earlier stage of the debate, the Minister said that we are looking at acceptance and we will come up with proposals if there is support. Here is a proposal that we can see that there is not enough support for legislative and constitutional change. Then why develop this with such urgency, when we have to wait for these other things all the time? Isn't that an inner contradiction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u386	No, there's no contradiction in that. One: there is a whole palette of proposals in the making of which it is never 100% clear in advance what the positions will be like. We come up with proposals. I have already indicated that this debate, too, has proved its worth as a measure of how Remkes' various proposals are being looked at, but also at the proposals of the cabinet. Again, on the main lines, because much still needs to be transposed into legislation, or is in preparation, or is in process and is still coming to this Chamber. Let's not jump to conclusions right now. I'm listening very carefully. That is part of the debate. I am also defending what I believe should be defended. But in the end a law is only a law when he has passed both chambers; I know that too. Either you have to work on support, or you conclude that there is no support, but I'm not going to draw that conclusion here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u387	The difference is that the Remkes Committee specifically said here, with the strength of arguments: do not return to 1983. The cabinet departs from that, while we also note that there will never be a two-thirds majority for it. So then the question is: why develop this proposal further and why is it taking a little longer for other proposals, for which there is much more support? That doesn't make any sense, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u388	This is a false contradiction, because there are proposals that have been made by the cabinet, or that have been announced, and I would say better, of which there is not even 100% certainty that there is support for it. It is already extremely complicated to find in that whole set of 83 proposals that are supported by unisono or by a large majority. I have the ambition to come up with proposals. That's what everyone here tonight actually says: come and propose. But the representatives of various groups all mean something else, namely: come forward with proposals that I am in favour of and not with others. That is, of course, something we are dealing with. That's just reality. I cannot do magic, either on the left or on the right, so when we come up with proposals, we are indeed coming up with proposals which we hope will be supported by them. If, in the end, it turns out that there is no basis for support, then there are several ways to pursue the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u389	I believe that Mr Kox was the first to see it, if I have seen it correctly. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u390	You were right, Mr. Chairman, I shouldn't be yelling from my place. I apologize for that. No excuses. On page 312 it says on this subject: "In view of all this, the State Committee does not recommend that the method of election of the Supreme Court be adapted." The minister said, "They'll leave that blue." No, they're not gonna leave that blue, so I wanted to solve that misunderstanding. The state committee doesn't think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u391	As far as I'm concerned, that's no misunderstanding. I knew that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u392	The Minister's argument raises the question again: if coalitions of five or six parties in particular make it even more difficult to reach a majority here too, it is, of course, very easy to agree in the coalition agreement of those five or six that this staged election will come. It may well be that the government, as well as the House of Representatives, actually has little message about what lives here and says: at least we are doing it and we will see where the ship is stranded. However, I would like to give the message that this Chamber has difficulty with a freedom that a six party coalition wants to have in consultation with the House of Representatives, which is then only lame, and which as a engine block is in it, also with a two-thirds majority, perhaps you can arrange that with six parties, we already have the two-thirds majority in it, and then we are going to push it a lot here to get it so that you have a constructed majority in the First Chamber, which... yes, anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u393	I have heard this very well from Mr Van Rooijen. He even said it was a warning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u394	Mr. Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u395	I agree with those colleagues who say: do not come forward with proposals that do not make it here. I am therefore concerned about the fact that a new coalition can be set up in a new House of Representatives, which will leave little room for the orderly functioning of the Upper Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u396	The proposal is now being caricatured, because Mr Van Rooijen is now talking about the right of existence of the First Chamber. I haven't heard anyone here say that the First Chamber should be abolished. Someone has said that once, but let's stick to the facts, otherwise it's going to be very big. I understand the warning about a next cabinet, but that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u397	I call Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u398	I'm gonna have to correct the minister. He says: I don't hear anyone saying that the First Chamber should be abolished. But I just filed a motion calling for that. Let me get this straight. I would like to come back to one point. I have heard several times say that the First Chamber elections overshadow the Provincial State elections. I am also a member of the State and have seen a lot of provincial state elections myself. Each time, the message of all the emerging campaigns is: vote mainly, because with that you also choose the Upper House. At the same time, in the municipal elections, we also see national debates being organised. If the cabinet is consistent, it should come up with an approach not to organise national campaigns around municipal elections. A third point is that the waterboard elections take place at the same time as the Provincial State elections. So you can also say that the Provincial State elections overshadow the watership elections, or maybe the other way around. I'm missing the consequence in the cabinet. Why do they say it's a problem that the First Chamber elections overshadow the Provincial State elections and don't they say that in all the other situations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u399	Mr Van Hattem is right that in municipal elections there are also national themes. This is not the case in waterboard elections. However, there are many municipalities and there is no direct connection as there is between the Provincial State elections and the First Chamber elections. There goes the equation. That national attention is there and of course the results of the municipal elections look at what that means nationwide, but this is increasingly difficult because of the large size of local parties and parties not represented in The Hague. In the provincial state elections, that's different. Regional or local parties are also involved, but this share is smaller than in municipal elections. In this sense, there is another connection between Provincial State elections and First Chamber elections and the elections mentioned by Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u400	Mr Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u401	Even so, it remains that the emerging campaigns have always been deployed in this way, including from the government in my opinion. If the problem outlined in the cabinet letter, namely that the First Chamber would have a more recent mandate than the Second Chamber, is really a problem, why doesn't the Cabinet simply take away the usual political authority, if it can't rely on it, to dissolve the Second Chamber and hold new Lower Parliament elections? Then the voter is up again. Then the voter obviously needs a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u402	The Minister. I ask him, after his reaction, to continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u403	We're talking about a system here. The decision whether or not to dissolve the Chamber is a political decision. It's independent of the system. This will lead to new elections, but that is a great deal different from talking about the system, as we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u404	Please continue your speech, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u405	I think we've discussed the First Chamber enough. If it isn't, I'd like to come back another time. I would like to say a few words about the right to return, because a number of Members have made a point about this. Mr Dittrich asked about the difference between the return right and a novelle. There's a clear difference. The return right would really be a jurisdiction of this Chamber. In doing so, conditions can also be laid down for the way in which the Lower House should work with this. There was a debate about what that means for relations. I was very much in agreement with the way that debate was conducted. The irresponsible or careless handling of that return right by, for example, the Lower House will undoubtedly have political repercussions, if I may say so, in the consideration of subsequent legislative proposals in the Upper Chamber. Where now the government and the House of Representatives are shaping the adaptation, although this has sometimes been discussed in very detail in the First Chamber in the form of a novelle, it would really be a return right of the First Chamber. I think it would be a reinforcement for the position of the First Chamber. Then I'll get to the Schalk motion. I think that is the most frequently mentioned name this afternoon and tonight, at least linked to a motion. We've agreed on that. Thank you again for the opportunity to have that debate now. We have not yet sent the draft Constitution to the Council of State, as requested by the motion. It'll take care of two things. Firstly, the term of office, which we have just discussed. Secondly, the proposal to deal with the amendment of the Constitution at second reading in the United Assembly. The cabinet has taken a position on this and it has also been sent to the Chambers. On this basis, a first draft legislative proposal was submitted for consultation. It's been completed by now. Indeed, I have not yet submitted it to the Council of State. That as a general point. Mr Schalk's question as to why the government has already given a constitutional change in consultation, when the Chambers had not yet had a debate on the final report, relates to the interruption with the question of how we deal with each other. Normally, we do that with an internet consultation before they're treated in the Council of Ministers to check it out. I think this debate proves that it has added value, so I am glad that we have had that. We will discuss the proceeds of this Internet consultation with both Chambers. You asked the question whether I could promise that the results of the consultation would be clear to the Chamber. That's the case. That will be when the bill is submitted. Then, of course, all the information that is part of it will also be part of the legislative process and it will be completely insightful. That will be done in the explanatory memorandum. It will be discussed in detail. In general, Mr Schalk asked how the cabinet would engage in dialogue with those concerned on the issues presented by the State Commission. I can see that in the broadest sense. Of course, this will be discussed with your Chamber and with the House of Representatives. As far as legislation is concerned, this dialogue has been secured, because there are a number of rules on what legislative proposals need to go through. In general, it is important to involve groups in initiatives. This applies not only to this debate, but also to other proposals that I have just outlined concerning increased civic participation. This is also true of my initiatives to speak with representatives of youth organisations to see how we can shape them more. That's an example of that. At the risk of reopening the whole discussion, I would like to mention the proposal for the electoral procedure of the First Chamber. We have sent you calculations of variations in the effects of residual seats and of what that means for the threshold issue that Mr Schalk spoke about. I trust that will also be taken into account and taken into account. The point made by Mr Schalk is, of course, an important one. The report we have sent also makes it clear that there is a choice in what you can do and what its effects are for smaller parties. All that still has to be worked out in the Election Act. However, the one-to-one conclusion that a change as proposed would lead to a deterioration in the position of small parties cannot be drawn on the basis of the reporting. That room is still there. In doing so, I hope that Mr Schalk's concern on this point will have been removed, regardless of the other discussion. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the block and ask you other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u406	Thank you for the detailed reply from the Minister. I've also taken note of the report of the scholar... Oh, oh, oh,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u407	Oh, okay, okay,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u408	But that is not part of the debate tonight either, because otherwise we will be discussing it very much in terms of content. I have also noted that when variants are applied again, it can work out positively for small parties, which will then perhaps have more difficulty with large parties. I think that even Mr Otjes does not assume more than 75 Members in the end. So every change in that of course has its own dynamics. That's the first thing. Then the second. Do I understand from the Minister that if the cabinet were to consider that this bill would have to be submitted, it would also be a choice made by the cabinet from that Otjes report?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u409	That may be a little too direct, but what I would like to point out, also by sending the report, is that the concern that Mr Schalk also linked to that other system, that it would always have negative consequences for small parties, has at least been removed. Options are therefore possible, with their own consequences of course. I have heard in such a way that there are wider concerns than just Mr Schalk that there would be unintentional negative effects on small parties, and that some parties might not be represented here anymore. I can take that care away, because there are options. Anyway, that will then be taken into account in the elaboration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u410	There is another question that has been left behind from my first term, otherwise I will have to ask it later. If the cabinet were to table the proposal, it would seem to my group a bit like an anti-Forum Act. They would have come into this room by now with twelve, and in the new form there might be six. We also talked today about a cultural change. In what way do we bring confidence to the citizen? Isn't that halving what the citizen says in an election?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u411	If you weigh such a proposal, you have to give all those elements a role in it. You are now presenting it as a dancing scenario. There won't be any more seats in the First Chamber. So that's where it goes. You have to look very clearly in advance at the final impact of different election outcomes and what the volatility of such a system is. All this must be weighed in the context of legislation. This applies not only to this aspect of the political parties which are somewhat smaller, which can also increase, which can also happen to you, but also to the aspect of new entrants and what this does to the results. You have to take all that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u412	Precisely this point, the delayed pass-through of voters' preferences, was an explicit argument in 1983 to move away from that stepped-up election. It is interesting that it is now coming back on the other side and that it is apparently weighed differently by the government, but we will come back to the proposal itself. The other question I would like to put concerns the second reading of constitutional reforms and the proposal to do so in the United Assembly. I had put a very business question to the government, but I have not yet received an answer. What other examples are there, in addition to the most recent Night of Wiegel for which there is another one mentioned in the report "Where a small majority here could have stopped it according to the new model?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u413	In the 1950s, this was done, in which a number of senators prevented the Chambers from being enlarged. The Night of Wiegel has already been mentioned. In both cases, the amendment had been adopted by both chambers at first reading. So that's exactly the example you were referring to. So it's not common, but it's also a point of principle. You don't want the Chambers to face each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u414	So far, we seem to want it to be the main issue. So that is an interesting discussion that we are going to have, but I note that the urgency is not very great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u415	Then I will turn to a number of other questions, at least that is how we described them, but they are no less important. Mr Dittrich has asked a question about right to challenge and right to cooperate. In the Lower House I cannot say this anymore, because that is where they want the Dutch terms to be used: the challenge law and the right to cooperate. It's also in the coalition agreement. It is an important point, where actually the idea is to give space to people who want to take care of things in a different way, for example in their own environment. Mr Dittrich mentioned the example of Groningen. This is in line with Remkes' analysis, which just literally says that you need to give citizens more influence on their immediate environment where that can be done. That is the first thread of Remkes in which the voice of not all citizens is heard. In the letter of 17 October, we explained that we intend to amend the Municipal Law in such a way that the city council can lay down rules on how residents and local associations can submit an alternative proposal for the implementation of collective provisions. This can be with associations or in a direct living environment. This proposal forms part of the modernisation of Article 150 of the Community law. It broadens the participation regulation to include a participation regulation. It went into consultation in December and will be submitted to the House of Representatives by mid 2020. By the way, we work well together with municipalities on this issue. Mr Verkerk asked whether I share the view that social democracy is the basis of our democracy, how I see the role of civil society and whether I can promise that the full cabinet response that is to come will really work on this broad basis of democracy. Civil society is something I very much support, not only in words but also in deeds. I think that is really the strength of our society and, unfortunately, you can see great differences where it is and where it is lacking. You can see the effects right away. You yourself stressed this in your speech. They also asked where the priorities lie. I have heard from several Members that they are otherwise appreciated and appreciated. The categories A and B are the categories we are working with and not category C, which does not mean that it is not important, but there is no support or we think that A and B are more important. That doesn't change the point you're making, because I think this is something that's going on everywhere and you should be able to do it anywhere. I think that idea of right to challenge fits into that, because you are based on the power of society and you do not believe that the government has all the wisdom and can best manage things. So I think that is being properly implemented. Mr Dittrich asked whether we could make voting for Dutch citizens abroad easier and even make it possible to vote for voters on the Internet in the long term. We also believe that it is easy for Dutch people abroad to vote for the House of Representatives and the European Parliament. Several measures have already been taken to make this as easy as possible. For example, the Election Act was amended in 2017, so that the voter no longer has to register for each election. Registering once is enough. For voters abroad there is another ballot that they can get by mail, so that the ballot can arrive in time to vote, because often things went wrong. An amendment to the Tickets Act is under way. The Council of State's opinion was received last Friday. It provides, among other things, that voters in the country can receive a replacement letter vote by e-mail if something goes wrong. If the voter has lost his vote certificate or has not arrived, a new one can be sent by e-mail. That's how digitalization works again. Moreover, we continue to look at possibilities for improvement in the digital field. I dare not say whether we will ever be able to take the step towards voting on the Internet. I would almost say that we could, but we had to deal with those voting machines in 2007. Then we thought everything could be digital, but there were serious doubts as to whether that was sufficiently safe. When it comes to voting, there must be no doubt about the reliability of the result. So I'm not expecting that to happen in the very short term. I hope so, because I also think that this may be possible in a society that is increasingly digitalising. Then there is a question from Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u416	I heard the minister say he hopes that voices on the Internet will eventually become possible. The reliability must be paramount, but in voting in the voting booth we still have the secret of voting and the certainty that someone will enter the voting booth alone. That person can freely, without burden and without pressure from others, cast his vote. This cannot be guaranteed in the case of voting over the Internet. Is that also a trade-off that the Minister is taking on board?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u417	Yes, I mean the authentication: are you the one you say you are? There can be no doubt about that. I mentioned the example of the voting machine. That was still relatively simple because the doubt was in the machine itself. There was not so much the problem that Mr Van Hattem is now raising. That's true. In any case, digital communication with the government must be able to secure the entire authentication, logging in and the levels of reliability associated with it. This happens to be the subject of tomorrow's debate in the House of Representatives in the framework of the Digital Government Act, in which we deal with this kind of thing, including the sharing of healthcare data. You can do a lot with digitalization. It offers a lot of opportunities, but we've also been dealing with outside attacks. We cannot afford to damage citizens' data, for example the integrity of electoral processes, because there is doubt that it is not sufficiently secured. Here really is safety first. You have to make sure it's possible. It's got to be double-secure before you take that step. From my optimism that the technique is evolving, I think it is going to happen, but that is not something that leads to proposals or anything like that during this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u418	The Minister may be missing the port of my point. I believe that it can all be arranged in terms of authentication and security, but you still have the problem that if someone is going to vote in the domestic sphere, or perhaps at another location with all the mobile resources of today, for example a candidate or someone else who has other interests in it, there is also a presence and a co-checking if the person does vote. The question is whether the elections can still take place freely. Is this aspect sufficiently taken into account when plans are made in this direction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u419	Then we have a discussion about: what is digital voting? If I sit at home on the couch and I can vote with my cell phone from home, then what Mr Van Hattem says is true. Then that's a reason to say that you can't, because you can't guarantee it's free. 'Cause you can put someone in there. Digital voices can also mean that you can see that you can only vote digitally in a voting booth in a particular place where the same procedure applies. You can't do that there with the pencil anymore. If the results can also be produced more efficiently, then we have another issue. It's just the question of what kind of digital voices you're talking about. Both are unfortunately not yet possible at the moment. Mr Dittrich wondered whether this cabinet was going to settle early voting, or rather early voting. I notice that many English-language terms have been stuck with Mr Dittrich. In the Election Agenda, which Minister Ollongren sent to the Lower House in 2018, she indicated that there is a intention to enable experiments to be carried out with forms of early voting. These experiments are only possible if a legal basis is created for this. On the basis of the current Kieswet, early voting is not yet possible. The implementation consequences of this early vote are currently being worked out. I expect more clarity on this in the coming months, so that Parliament can be informed about it. Then there is Mr Verkerk's question, which follows on from the question we have just raised. It's about ICT technology. His statement is that because of its unlimited potential it could pose a threat to our democracy, both from the outside and from the inside. What are we going to do about this in concrete terms? Can I promise that we will respond to this in a cabinet response? I have just said that technology and digitisation offer enormous opportunities and opportunities. We must continue to look at this in particular. At the same time, we should not be naive on the shadow side. It has to be one step at a time. Don't take any chances on that point. Only to continue with the digitisation if you are sure that it can be done. Finally, Mr Van Hattem's question as to why the cabinet is not taking measures to prevent municipalities from setting up less polling stations. The number of voting rooms varies between 9,000 and 9,500 per election. In the municipal elections and the consultative referendum on the Wiv in March 2018, there were 9,596 voting rooms. In the European Parliament elections, there were 9.278. It is up to the College of B and W to determine the number of voting rooms. That college is also quite capable of determining, depending on the turnout and the type of election, how many voting rooms are needed in which places, taking into account the distribution across the different villages and neighbourhoods. I have no indications that there are too few voting rooms. I see no reason to take action on this point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u420	I see the Minister has finished his speech. Mr Kox's turn is then, because he came forward first. If you will allow me, Mr Otten, I shall first give Mr Kox the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u421	When the Minister has finished his reply, I wonder if he can say anything about perhaps one of the most prominent proposals of the state committee, namely the chosen reformer. I have also said something about it in my contribution. I have also said that it may not be my preference, but for the state committee, the chosen formatter is one of the most prominent proposals. It is also one of the proposals that is in fact the longest on the political table. Is that an omission, or does the Minister think: it's okay, I'm not going to start again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u422	That's a bit of Mr. Kox's domestic summary. By the way, this is not something that concerns only the cabinet. The House of Representatives also has a say in this. It's been evaluated before. The cabinet isn't excited about it, but that doesn't mean we're gonna stop thinking. This specific proposal is not on the list of priorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u423	This too has apparently been discussed in the bosom of the cabinet. Let me take a look at my colleague Dittrich. In those circles, a chosen formatter was quite popular for a long time. Does this mean that the cabinet agrees that it is not going that way? Or does it mean that the majority of the cabinet doesn't want to go that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u424	I think I said what I wanted to say about it. It is not high on the list and there is little enthusiasm for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u425	Mr. Chairman. I apologize to Mr. Kox for jumping to the microphone. I'd missed him, which usually doesn't happen that often. I referred to the Minister's remark that the number of polling stations is determined by the local authority in relation to how it sees the turnout. That is an interesting error in a causal connection of the Minister. I mentioned earlier during this debate that I had a trial a few years ago on the shortage of polling stations in the 2016 referendum on the Association Treaty. At that time, this argument was also used by local authorities. They indicated: we expect less turnout, so that's why we place fewer polling stations. That's kind of the reverse world. If you place fewer polling stations, you'll get less turnout. I studied that extensively back then. It turns out that in a number of other countries certain ratios are used: you have to have a polling station for every person. That could solve this problem very effectively with a simple measure, because I think we all agree that the higher the turnout, the better it is. Will the Minister consider whether a certain ratio can be incorporated into the legislation, in the sense of: a polling station per so many voters? That is how they do it in many other countries, and that prevents this kind of tiring discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u426	I do not know how Mr Otten experiences it, but I do not find the discussion exhausting. I think it's a good discussion. We're talking about up to a difference of 500 polling stations. That bandwidth is the difference between 9,000 and 9,500 polling stations. The maximum variation is 500 polling stations higher than the minimum variation. In my view, the question would be much more appropriate: how can we ensure that this is also the responsibility of the B and W College that elections can take place in an orderly manner and that people live at a reasonable distance from a polling station? But that is also different from one polling station to another. In a very dense population, you don't have to go as far in front of a polling station as in the countryside. There's a difference. If you were to use distance ratios, you would come to very different outcomes than when you look at: how busy is it at a polling station? That can also be a factor, the capacity, because you don't want people standing in those long lines that you see in some countries, which takes hours for them to vote. So you want it within reasonable distance, so it's not a threshold to vote. I always say: if you vote every four years, well, we have more elections, then it's about something. So whether you have to go 500 meters or not, that's not the biggest thing. Whether you can vote quickly is. "Can I vote quickly? I don't want to stand in line for an hour, because I don't have time for that." I think it is too easy to limit it to one ratio, the number of inhabitants. Municipalities could best indicate where the polling stations should be set up. If there are complaints about them, including at local level, for example, if there are too long queues or the accessibility would not be good, the college should do something with them. I understand Mr Otten's point, but I wonder what I can do about it from my responsibilities, other than that reports are being made by the Election Council on how the elections have been conducted. Sometimes these reports indicate at which polling station it did not go well, the items were not present in time or people had to wait a long time. These are relevant issues. How can we ensure that people can vote as simply as possible? How can we ensure that we do not set up dikes, just to speak in Remkes terms, when it comes to voting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u427	Finally, Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u428	I do not find the discussion with the Minister exhausting, I did not mean it, far from it. I find it exhausting that these debates keep coming back at elections. That can be repaired very well by not making changes by election. There have been elections, including with that referendum, where in some municipalities half fewer polling stations were placed according to the argument "Ah, it's just a referendum. We'll do half of it." There's graphs of that, too. Then you do get long rows and people say, "There's a long line. I have something else to do and I'm not going to vote." Then it becomes a selffulfilling prophecy. That's why I'm saying there's got to be some kind of consistency in it. It shouldn't be different from one election to another. While I am standing here, I have a second question for the Minister. Mr Kox was just talking about the chosen formatter. I have indicated to the elected Prime Minister as a possible option to get a little more direction in the current political volatile situation, which is urgently needed. I think this idea was originally still in the D66 founding document, if I am not mistaken, Mr. Dittrich. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u429	You didn't just talk about the elected Prime Minister, you also talked about the faster replacement of rulers. I'm just getting started, so I hope you don't want me gone again. We are not in favour of putting it together briefly and forcefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u430	I want to close this, because this is not part of the Remkes report. You know, Mr. Otten, that's what we discussed this morning. Then the floor is for Mr Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u431	Just to get back to the polling stations. The Minister actually makes a point that it doesn't really matter whether people should walk 500 metres further. If there has always been a polling station in a nursing home, as far as is still present, and a municipality suddenly says "in such a referendum we think we have enough polling stations, so we close them in the nursing home," then it really matters. For the people who live there, 500 meters is far. It's a long way for them to go outside the house anyway. If they go downstairs for coffee and can also cast their vote, that makes a lot of difference. In the cabinet letter I read that the cabinet can draw the attention of the municipalities. While we are working on this exercise, wouldn't it be much better to ensure that we make very clear and sharp agreements on this, so that municipalities can't just deduct polling stations? It certainly has an impact on local democracy, also knowing that many mistakes have been made at polling stations in the Netherlands. During the last state elections, there were polling stations where thousands of votes were not counted, although in the end without any effective difference for the election results. Mistakes are being made and we have to deal with our polling stations very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u432	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u433	I fully agree with the latter. Only, a number of arguments are mentioned. However, only locally the example of the nursing home. I know of municipalities that just maintain the polling station in a nursing home and perhaps not set up another because they know that 500 meters for those people is far away. You can solve that in a very practical way. I don't think it's gonna get any better if we do that here from The Hague. That is my sincere conviction. The problems of counting are separate from the polling stations. We agree that the process must go well. It will have to be left to the municipalities. If they are not sure, they can take a margin that they are not too tight, but rather too large. That's a signal you can send out. The findings of the Election Board could be the subject of an ordinary discussion when discussing the Reports of the Election Board in the Lower House. Also as a signal of where things went wrong, because as a municipality you don't want to be in a list of municipalities where a tap is handed out because it didn't go quite well. It started with accessibility, then you talked about the quality of counting. Those are really two different things, but both of them have in common an important role to play in the integrity and accessibility of the process, because people need to be able to exercise their right to vote. We agree on that. It helps to talk about this every time after the elections on the basis of reports from the Election Council. If there is any reason, I am always willing to take that up with municipalities, but I am always prepared to do so on the basis that municipalities have a primary responsibility in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u434	Mr. Van Hattem, brief closing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u435	Yes, the municipality has the primary responsibility, but as with a lot of things, agreements are made with VNG and local authorities. A lot is agreed and arranged towards municipalities. Let me take another example. Many complaints are made by municipalities about the fluctuations in the Municipal Fund and that they are therefore too short of money. Suppose municipalities are going to say: in order to be able to finance the problems we face, we are going to set up fewer polling stations. It's all connected. So if we take care of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u436	What's your question? Then we're really gonna wrap this up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u437	Sorry, Chairman. I wanted to come to my question exactly. If we want to ensure stable democracy, how can such incentives be avoided for municipalities, so that they can at least always keep that basic level in order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u438	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u439	I will not deny that things have not gone quite well in some places, but I do not have the impression that there are systematic problems here on a large scale. Once again, if elections have taken place and it is mentioned that problems are being raised as Mr Van Hattem outlines them, that is what comes into those reports and that is what is being discussed. I really have faith in municipalities that they're doing this in a good way. The fact that we're talking about it here also helps. I would like to raise it on other occasions, including in the preparation of elections to be organised, but not in the sense of 'we tell you how to do it', but in the sense of 'note this, you have an important task to do'. I think I understand your message in such a way that you say that you think it's important. I agree, so I'd like to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u440	Thank you. We now come to the second term of office. We have 12 speakers. Afterwards, whether or not a suspension, so that the government can prepare the response, followed by the second term on the part of the government. For the second time on the part of the Chamber, I shall give the floor as the first speaker to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u441	Mr. Chairman. Just a few dots, briefly, a few minutes. I have the impression that my first point, the corrective legislative referendum, has been very well received. My group would like to present a motion on this. The President shall: Mr Cliteur, Mr Van der Linden, Mr Dessing, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Bezaan proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a compromise by a majority of the parties represented in the Parliament may lead to (parts of) legislation which clearly does not correspond to the views of a majority of voters;]] [[whereas the voter currently has no options or options. has tools to reverse (parts of) that legislation;]] [[Whereas the binding corrective referendum instrument provides for a solution to this problem;]] [[noting that the Council of State does not see any constitutional obstacles to the introduction of a binding corrective referendum;]] [[noting that there is a positive opinion from the State Committee on the parliamentary system "Low thresholds, high dikes" on this section, while the State Committee also notes that a binding corrective referendum does not affect the primacy of representative democracy;]] [[welcomes the proposal for an own-initiative law on the binding corrective referendum which is currently being prepared,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34430-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u442	Mr President, my second point. I started this morning by explaining the concept of "dikastocracy," as introduced by Erik Jurgens, former senator. I have also noted that there are concerns among the supporters of the VVD, 72% in the polls of De Dog, and of the CDA: 69%. I'm presenting a motion on the dikasocracy. The President shall: Mr Cliteur, Mr Nanninga, Mr Van Pareren, Mr Van der Linden and Mr Dessing proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands consists of a legislative power, an executive power and a judicial power, which are separated from each other;]] [[noting that, in a democracy, the centre of gravity of power must be the legislative power, because it alone has a democratic mandate;]] [[points out that a shift from the centre of gravity of the power of legislative power to the judicial power undermines democracy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34430-P]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u443	Those were my points, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u444	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. Then I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister. I wonder if it hurts, that arm. The Minister makes quite a few hours and I do not know what is going on, but I congratulate him on the determination to finish the debate. I hope it doesn't bother him too much. Compliments also to Mr Doornhof, who delivered a special maiden speech, in which, if I have heard correctly, the assessment of what was now in store: a quirky, snap-snap approach of the cabinet. Well, I liked that one. So this Chamber takes some distance from the cabinet, even if you're across the street in the coalition. I recognized myself in that. I have found that the whole Chamber is slightly problematic about this quirky bite-snap approach of the cabinet. Finally, on this first point, we should also like to thank the Chamber. The Minister himself said it on a regular basis: this is a good debate on the main lines, in which, with all the differences we have shown, this is also the intention of such a debate, where perhaps the compromises, the agreement, can be found. I hope the Minister will take this to the cabinet in particular. I very much agree with him that there is little point in coming forward with legislative proposals that you already feel at 10 kilometers that will not work. We shouldn't do that. I will go into it a little more precisely, but I think this has been the intention of this debate. I congratulate ourselves on that. It was good. Both for the return right and the correct binding referendum, I believe that at least a majority would be possible here. Let me say it carefully. That could be the case here. It's two major proposals from the state committee. It would be a great deal if we could be able to deal with legislative proposals together with the government at first reading on these two points. Then the state committee has had a sense of life, I would say. On other points, it is a bit more complicated, for example the Constitutional Court and the constitutional review. It's not clear yet. To my shame, I must confess that I was completely wrong. The Halsema Bill has already been repealed in 2018. At that time it was no longer called the Halsema proposal or the Buitenweg proposal, but the Van Tongeren proposal. That's why I lost my touch. Fortunately, the website of the Upper House was clear about it. A big apology for overlooking that for a moment. Nevertheless, it is still a shame that we are going through a constitutional process in two chambers and that at some point we will say: let us stop. Then we'll have to start over. It's still a matter of which there are a lot of questions. I don't see that happening so soon either. The same is true of the Political Parties Act, which I am concerned about. I welcome the fact that in the Political Parties Act there is nothing wrong with everything and everything that is regulated, but when we talk about banning political parties... There must be a fundamental debate on this in Parliament. It's so un-Dutch. It is not insufferable in other countries, the country's first wise, but in the Netherlands it does not fit at all. The report by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure refers to the Venice Committee of the Council of Europe, close to my heart, but it also says: it is really the last resort. The State Commission links it to the existence of a constitutional court. Well, we don't have that for the time being, so I'd like to give the government some thought as to whether it's really necessary to take such a step. It is a signal that can be used and abused in any way possible, just because the proposal is on the table: the government wants to ban political parties, to summarize it briefly. I wouldn't want to do that to us. I have already said it in the case of interruption, but it struck me that it is remarkable that so little is said about the chosen formatter and nothing at all about my alternative to working in Denmark with political block formation before elections. Then you know which parties work together in a block. Other parties work together in another block. If necessary, there's a third block. Those who come out of the elections as the biggest may take the initiative. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. In that case, it is not the person who is dominant, but the political choices that have been made. I hope that, as a result of this debate, the Minister will at least take it with him and go to the cabinet with the feeling: let's not go back to 1983; those guests in the First Chamber really do not like that. So that's pulling a dead horse. Don't do that. Please read the report of the State Committee: it is really not necessary. If it ain't broken, don't fix it. The Minister himself is also constantly speaking to us in English, mainly in reference to what Mr Dittrich has said. If there's no problem, don't fix it! Finally, Mr President. I think we should start measuring now. With all due respect that I have for the way in which the Minister has responded, I think that the government has taken a very long time. The report was put on the table by Remkes before the end of 2018 and we are now in 2020, while we still have to wait for the first serious overall assessment on the part of the cabinet. That's not really possible. I remember when we talked about the state committee, we said that we needed to speed things up a bit, otherwise we would be over the next election. I hope the Minister will speed it up. I have signed a motion which will shortly be tabled by Mrs Vos, the Labour Party colleague, calling on the government to adopt a position before the summer. Otherwise we will be after summer and, of course, we are never finished talking about the political momentum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u446	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u447	Mr President, thank you. Congratulations indeed to Mr Doornhof and thanks to the Minister. We have received interesting motions from the Forum for Democracy. On the second, let me say this: the balance between democracy and the rule of law is not improving in our view by shifting more power to parliament and by putting democracy above the rule of law. I don't think that's the right route. The relationship between problem and solution is still somewhat unclear in a number of areas, as we have said before, but I would suggest that we look again at the specific proposals in detail at the problem for which it is a solution. There was a call for consistency between the three proposals relating to the EC. It's not smart to put that in one law. I would like to support what Mr Van Rooijen said about this in connection with the Hoekstra motion. But the coherence between the proposals must be made clear. For the election of the First Chamber and the proposals on that point, the argument remains a bit diffuse. The adaptation does not change the position of the European Championships, nor does it prevent the provincial state elections from being coloured by national politics. In fact, on page 312 of the report it says that the delayed transmission of electoral preferences was precisely a reason for adjustment in 1983. So this isn't gonna solve much. Moreover, it has already been said, fairly pragmatic: there is little chance of a majority. If the government is so keen to prey on this point, I would like to say to the Minister: be my guest. I like to make jigsaw puzzles myself and I put them back in the box afterwards. To make it even more practical: nowadays I do my jigsaw puzzles digitally on the internet, because that saves a lot of mess. But keep playing! Then there is the issue of regional reinforcement. I have one comment to make on that point. I believe that the Minister has created real confusion about this which was not necessary. It is literally written in the Cabinet's letter: in addition, the Cabinet wants to explore the possibilities to further increase the so-called regional component in the electoral system. In doing so, the cabinet has in mind the example of the Danish electoral system, i.e. a multi-district system with compensatory seats to ensure proportionality at national level. There is therefore a preference for a regional link over other aspects of difference that exist in society and which may not be sufficiently visible in representation. So I do not think it is convenient for the Minister to say: no, it is regional and-and-and-and-so. It is indeed a one-sided choice for the regional. I have also said that I regret the fact that the government itself in its letter uses suggestive expressions of constitutional review and thus wrongly discredits the judge. Let me close with a positive note. I have heard two commitments which I would like to highlight, including in relation to our reporting. The first was the information that will come about about the progress of the development of a youth forum, a youth parliament, or whatever it is called, with regard to the tasks and powers and the representativeness of the form chosen. It would be nice if we could hear about that progress before the summer. I would like to hear that clarification from the Minister in a moment. Finally, the vision of a broader form of social democracy that we had already been promised before the summer. Of this, I have noted as a commitment to myself that for the summer it could also mean 'June'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u448	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. I call Mr Dittrich.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u449	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Doornhof on his beautiful maiden speech. As the Minister said, it is a major debate. To many of the things that we have brought forward here, the Minister had to answer that he could not anticipate a position in the cabinet. Or: it comes soon, as soon as possible, perhaps tomorrow, perhaps before the summer, but perhaps also after the summer. I understand it all, but the impatience of many here in the Chamber is quite considerable. My request to the government is therefore to act as urgently as possible. I have noted a number of issues for which I see that there is a sort of majority going on. The corrective binding legislative reference is such an example. Many speakers said that was interesting. In 2018 there was a debate on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. It has already been said by the government that it would soon come forward with proposals on the corrective legislative reference. We are now a year and a half away, so it would be nice if we really could get here in the short term. The other subject is the right of return, which I have also noted that several groups are interested in. It would be nice if that too would come this way soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u450	I have also been here with your predecessor, Mr Engels van D66, in the debate on the withdrawal of the consultative referendum. Then we clearly talked about what had to happen. Mr Engels was pleased that the consultative referendum was withdrawn. This state committee was then put forward as a perspective. Now I hear Mr Dittrich say that he hopes that the correct binding referendum will be there as soon as possible. But we have just heard the Minister of the Cabinet, of which his party is also a member, say that he is not going to come forward with anything in this area before the summer. Nothing with direct democracy, nothing with corrective binding referenda. How can you call for it to come as soon as possible, now in line with the reaction we have just had from the cabinet that nothing is going to happen at all for the time being? Are you satisfied with that little? Doesn't D66, as a coalition party, come with a little more pepper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u451	Pepper in the sense of pepper and not in the sense of the English word "paper"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u452	A very razor-sharp, flaming pepper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u453	Okay, then we understand each other well. I'm not in the cabinet. I note that this cabinet has already said in 2018 that it is coming forward with proposals on a corrective legislative referendum. No position has yet been adopted on the occasion of the Remkes State Commission. That's the infamous B list. We're waiting for that. I can't do much more here as a Member of Parliament than call for urgent procedure. But I do count here in the Chamber several groups which are in favour of introducing a binding corrective legislative referendum. We always have been. That's also in several election programs. But I also see that this is a cabinet of four parties who may think differently about it. If you have listened carefully to the Minister, there is, of course, also a lot of debate in the cabinet. My position as D66 is to come, as soon as possible, with a proposal to the Lower House and the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u454	Mr. Van Hattem, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u455	Will Mr Dittrich of D66 be satisfied with the fact that the Minister says that he has nothing to do with it before the summer and that he has nothing to do with it? Can he just settle for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u456	I listened very carefully to the Minister. The Minister is here, in this main debate, listening to what is living in the Chamber. He has clearly heard that, on behalf of the D66 Group, I am asking for urgency, as well as other groups. Mrs Vos even has a motion on that. I have made it quite clear that we want to proceed with this. I've also heard the Minister takes that back to the cabinet. I understand that there will also be a progress note. So I hope it all goes quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u457	I'm really gonna keep it a little shorter right now. We're in the second term now, so I'm going to see Mr. Otten now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u458	I'll be brief. I have a question for Mr Dittrich. D66 was founded in 1966 and, I think, had in its programme the elected Prime Minister and the referendum. The referendum they have now expertly destroyed themselves, so in that respect we are again full circle where we were in 1965. How does Mr Dittrich stand on behalf of D66 in relation to the elected Prime Minister, the old crown jewel of D66? At the present time, this could be a very good solution to tackle more direction and reduce the gap with the electorate, as was already the case in 1966. I haven't heard much about that from D66 today. I'm interested in the way D66 looks at that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u459	Mr. Otten, you're doing it again. I will give Mr Dittrich a very brief opportunity to respond to that, but that is not the issue today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u460	I wanted to give two answers. First of all, throw the different types of referenda into a pile. You have an advisory non-binding referendum on the front. And afterward, if the First Chamber and the Second Chamber have accepted a bill, you have a referendum that can be corrective and attract citizens to the emergency brake. That's a different kind of referendum. We are very much in favour of this. I have just said, in a small debate with Mr Van Hattem, that I hope that this will be speeded up. The second part was not recommended by the Remkes Committee. If you had been to the committee meetings of the Committee on the Interior, you would have known that we are discussing the report of the Remkes Committee and not all kinds of other proposals. It is true that in the past, D66 thought the elected reformer, the elected Prime Minister, was a very good proposal. I would like to discuss this with you once, but not in the context of the report by the Remkes Committee, because that report is not about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u461	The Committee on the Interior, which you yourself have been very competently chairing...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u462	Ah! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u463	... I looked back on the excellent video report yesterday, I say to Mr Dittrich through the President. However, I do think that we are now imposing too much self-limitation and perhaps sometimes being imposed by the President. The report by the Remkes Committee, I think, should be placed in a broader context. In my opinion, the Biesheuvel Committee already presented the proposal for a corrective referendum in 1982 or 1983. We are now almost 40 years further. Why should we chain ourselves to the Remkes Committee, a committee of someone not elected at all in this Chamber? We have a constitutional right to place this in a broader context, don't we? Or do you disagree with me, Mr. Dittrich, I ask through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u464	Short reaction, given the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u465	Thank you for your question, Mr. Otten. We started this debate at 2:30 this afternoon, I believe. It is now eleven o'clock in the evening and in the second term you will bring it up, in my second term. I would like to discuss this with you once, but then we really must fully fledged, I would almost say, but you can't say that in this house because it's English. Then we must have a thorough debate on this. I'd love to, but not now. I don't think it's the time or the time. I was ready for a conclusion, Mr. Chairman. There has been an interesting debate on the constitutional review. At this point too, we are eager to see what might emerge from it. With regard to the law on political parties, I asked the cabinet whether it would include the ban on the parties as part of it. I did not want to suggest that we enthusiastically advocate a party ban, but we would like to discuss this with the government. Mr Kox is right in saying that this would be a very fundamental debate, because what the Remkes Committee is proposing is quite a lot, given the threats that could jeopardise the democratic rule of law. There must therefore be an in-depth debate on this, as far as we are concerned, or perhaps highlighted, but it would be nice if this were to be presented in a broader context of a law on political parties. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u466	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u467	Mr. Chairman. Six years is a long time in politics, I paraphrase Harold Macmillan, who said: a week is a long time in politics. Today it is: an hour is a long time in politics, I think. It has lasted six years, from 2014 to 2020, from the first motion adopted on this investigation to the report and discussion on it today. That's a long time. At that time you can even set up an entire political party and become the largest party in the Netherlands. As far as we're concerned, it should all be a little faster. What strikes us in the debate with the Minister is his somewhat more defensive attitude. I think he turned it in himself. As an ex-military, I understand that he's defensive, but that's based on a rather static world view. One would like to join the cabinet in particular...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u468	May I interrupt you for a moment? Would you please refrain from expressing consent or disapproval from the benches, Mr. De Vries? I'd love to. Go ahead, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u469	Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is based on a rather static world view and would like to stick to the old one is our impression. Old and trusted. We believe that there is a need for modernisation. I have also heard the word modernisation today from various parties and groups. Then I come to the question of the correct binding referendum. As has already been said, this discussion has a long history. A predecessor of the Remkes Committee, the Biesheuvel Committee, has actually done the work of Remkes in the early 1980s. That didn't happen much back then. We are very pleased that there is now a motion for the corrective referendum on behalf of Forum O van Otten, which is easy to remember. That is why we will support it. Since we consider this to be such an important point and since there was a roll-call vote in the House of Representatives on the abolition of the referendum, we suggest that Mr Cliteur consider asking for a roll-call vote on this motion as well. At least we shall vote in favour. Mr. Chairman. We see problems in the Netherlands mostly. If we look from above at what is really the problem here, it is too little direction and too little action. According to JU, therefore, a more effective direction must be achieved, as far as we are concerned, through an elected Prime Minister with good democratic legitimacy. We do not have this important element in the discussion about the Remkes Committee, which, as far as we are concerned, has looked at this too closely. That is why we are tabling a motion, which I accidentally forgot, so if anyone would like to assist me and hand over that motion to the chairman. It's a motion to take back the direction and close the gap with the voter. The motion will now be handed over to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Otten, Mr Rookmaker and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Remkes Commission is experiencing a growing gap between voters on the one hand and politics and public administration on the other;]] [[Whereas the confidence of many voters in politics and governance has been subject to increasing erosion for a long time;]] [[Whereas there is a growing need for more democratically legitimised leadership in public administration and that a directly elected Prime Minister can play a very effective and positive role in this process;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for introducing an elected Prime Minister, for example by introducing a system whereby the electorate can vote two votes during the Lower House elections (one vote on the party and one vote on the Prime Minister) and inform the Chamber before the end of this cabinet period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34430-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A lot of things have already been exchanged this evening through interruptions, so that saves a lot of time. Mr. Chairman. The parliamentary system is now increasingly being replaced by back room agreements. We see pension agreements, care agreements, the Climate Agreement, the Energy Agreement, the Intergovernmental Programme. Here, too, there seems to have been a bit of a loosening of popular representation, both at the parliamentary level of the States-General and at the decentralised levels. In terms of framework, direction and control, it is really very much outside the public representative gremina. I would like to make a point of this towards the Minister. Does the Minister not also see a need to include this aspect in the proposals that are being developed in the near future? Because this also requires an approach. We are seeing more and more of these agreements and they are actually running out of parliamentary work. I would like to express my concern about that. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. When the consultative referendum was withdrawn, thanks to D66 at the time, the state committee's report was put forward here as a future alternative. So we have heard that there will be no proposal from the government on referendums or direct democracy before the summer. For this reason, among other reasons, we have also tabled the Forum motion in order to clarify a positive basic position on the correct binding referendum. Mr. Chairman. We have had some discussion in the first term about a single chamber system in relation to a constitutional court or a constitutional court, whatever you want to call it. Within our Kingdom there are even two countries that have a single chamber system and no constitutional court, Aruba and Curaçao. Sint-Maarten has, by the way, a constitutional court, but very sporadic things are being put forward there. Sint-Maarten is not exactly the most shining example of a rule of law in balance. But, as I said, there are examples of this within the Kingdom. I still have a few questions that were left open in the first term. How does the Minister feel about the confidence of citizens, as mentioned in the cabinet response, and about serving their interests and ideals in a good, recognizable way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u471	Compliments of the search. So there are countries. I thought it was zero, but Hatter's colleague found Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u472	And Aruba and Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u473	But, just think: is that the model proposed by the PVV to us, a single chamber parliament without any kind of scrutiny by another Chamber, an international organisation such as the Strasbourg Court or by a constitutional court? If proposals are made, we can also know what they mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u474	The point is that I am not suggesting anything at the moment. It is up to the House of Representatives to propose institutions. That's where the initiative comes in. What is going to be the content of the initiative is still unknown to me. I assume that all aspects will be sufficiently taken into account. The motion that we have tabled is only about the fact that, if matters are developed, if a direction is chosen, it is not just about the direction to be chosen to change the Upper Chamber. In any case, consider abolishing the First Chamber. Then you can take all these considerations into account in all these possibilities, but in essence the survival of this Chamber is not sacred.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u475	I hear Mr Van Hattem say: I have no idea what is going to be in that bill, except for abolishing it. That's it. We have no idea. I don't know about interparty communication, but how can you, if there's a proposal and you have no idea what it says, call on this Chamber, which will have to judge it later, to agree to it? That's a weird thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u476	Mr Kox may not fully understand my motion. I did not say in my motion that the proposal should be supported coûte que coûte. It says: the cabinet can come up with proposals, the Lower House can come up with proposals. Maybe the SP itself will come up with a proposal, too, who knows? It's all possible. If these proposals are there, there must be no barrier from the First Chamber that the First Chamber absolutely does not want to abolish itself. We need to keep that possibility open here. That's what the motion calls for. The First Chamber is prepared to step over its own shadow and to abolish it, regardless of the actual impact of the proposals that lie ahead. In any case, this possibility must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u477	I don't like a three-time argument. I'm sorry to have to say it. This is an empty casing. To present it to this Chamber in order to pass judgment on it, I believe that there is little respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u478	Mr Kox himself as SP has always indicated that he is in favour of abolishing the Upper House. He even quoted Thorbecke extensively and said that there really is no basis for this. Now we come up with a clear proposal to step over our own shadow as First Chamber. We must say: we do not think it is in itself an obstacle to abolishing the First Chamber. All right, all right, all right. If there are any proposals, we will not, in principle, be in favour of them. The survival of the First Chamber is not an end in itself. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u479	I will not go into the speculative reasoning of the PVV. I'm gonna leave it for what it is. I'll deal with the two countries he mentions. What he ignores, and the Minister can say much more about it from his expertise, is that it is precisely two countries within our Kingdom that have a governor with a strong role and a government council that can intervene if things are not going well. So it is not quite the right example to say that there are no checks-and-balances in there. Well, there are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u480	Mr GroenLinks is absolutely right about that. The point was that they were examples of countries that do not have a constitutional court. There are similar possibilities within our kingdom with a single chamber system. The countries of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have a single-room system. It's possible to organize it that way. There are many other countries in Europe and beyond that working with a single room system, which is going well. A constitutional court is not always a blessing either. There are also negative examples of this. It is not the most ideal solution and certainly not the solution that we, as a PVV, would like, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u481	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u482	Then there are a number of things that have lingered from the first term. I had asked how the Minister intends to serve the stated trust of citizens and their interests and ideals in a good and recognizable way. This is taken as a kind of naturality in the piece, while there are a lot of things that are initiated from the cabinet that make citizens in the country miserable. How can we maintain this position? Then the point of representing all Dutch people, while of certain political parties people are knowingly excluded from the public administration, from mayoral nominations, from coalition participation et cetera. How is that to be maintained as long as this is on the agenda? This department is definitely about mayor nominations. Then I come to the point of reintroducing the list combinations. Can the Minister explain where that all of a sudden came from? What top hat was that pulled out of? We only abolished it two or three years ago for very legitimate reasons. Why does this suddenly need to be re-implemented? What does the cabinet intend to do in making active citizenship and social cohesion compulsory in schools? What is social cohesion supposed to mean? Then we have the issue of counter-effect by introducing the system for 1983. This reduces the link with the electorate. Is this counterproductive effect really desirable? Is that what the Cabinet is willing to do to change this system? On the contrary, you would like the electorate to be more bound by any parliament. Finally, the motion we have tabled on the abolition of the First Chamber. In view of the importance that each Member of this Chamber can make an independent assessment, I would like to request a roll-call vote on this for next week. So far in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u483	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to Mr Doornhof for his maiden speech, which contained enough spirit. We look forward to his future contributions. A word about the word "dikastocracy" towards the members of the Forum for Democracy. It wasn't Erik Jurgens, it was George van den Bergh, the teacher of Erik Jurgens, who came up with that word. He's been working on that for years. I think it came from the ancient Greeks eventually. We have expressed our concerns about the cut-off, because it is a large group. The government shares this concern, we saw. In category A, the proposals it adopts, there are many proposals that still have to be worked out. We think that's good. I am very curious, for example, how digital citizenship will be developed and how it can bridge the gap. I wonder if the government also takes into account, for example, low-lettered people. The most important thing in the development of all these proposals is that the government looks carefully at whether what you work out does not lead to disappointments. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. It has already been said by my colleague from GroenLinks, or by Mr Kox. The formatter is category C for this government. But it was said that all kinds of ideas would be put forward to involve citizens more in the formation process. I'm curious when those ideas will come. I've made a number of interruptions about the pace. I think it is a broad feeling in this Chamber that things are going very slowly and that we would very much like to be able to deal with a number of proposals during this period of government. Then it is important to note that there are quite a lot of constitutional changes in category B of the proposals that the government is still considering. We are curious when they will come. It's a little unclear how and when that's gonna happen. We would very much like to see the proposals drawn up in Category B before the summer. If the government doesn't come out, the proposal may also be that they park it in C, but at least know that. Then the Chamber will know what to do next. So let me know. About the pace we want to see, I have a motion. I'll give it to the President. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Kox, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Schalk and Mr Cliteur proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the underlying analysis of the Parliamentary System Committee on Democracy and the Rule of Law is to a large extent shared by the Chamber;]] [[Whereas the opinion of the State Committee needs to be developed in order to maintain our democratic rule of law and parliamentary system;]] [[whereas Parliament should be able to hold debates on the individual opinions by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the remaining opinions by the summer recess of 2020 at the latest and the impact of the previous opinions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34430-R]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For my part, too, of course, first of all, congratulations to Mr Doornhof. Thanks for the lovely maiden speech. I look forward to the follow-up debates that we will have with each other. Thanks also to the Minister for answering the questions. We have not discussed one aspect this evening, which I did refer to this afternoon, namely that cultural change, have an eye for each other. Sometimes you can make that very practical. I've been watching the minister for a while. Looks like he's got his arm in a brace. If he's not in pain, I can say we saw it. If he is in pain, then we have extra respect for the patient response. That's also part of having an eye for each other. The Minister has argued that the cabinet feels urgent, but the government also opts for its own urgency. In particular, legislative proposals relating to this Chamber are on the agenda. Think the return right, the second reading at the united assembly and also the election of the First Chamber. The Minister indicated that the Schalk motion and my name were mentioned a great many times today, especially on that last subject. I can assure you that I did not have to. In other words, it only happened because there was something coming that we at least had a lot of questions about as a Chamber. Moreover, it has helped us to come to the conclusion that it makes sense for the government to go through with that bill or not, but of course we put it to the government itself. My question is whether the Minister really wants to take what was also brought up by Mr Van Rooijen. That is to say, if necessary, link different legislative proposals together in substance, but disconnect them by process. That could really help the process. We also discussed the constitutional review. The old bill has indeed been withdrawn. That is a good thing, because I think citizens could just say that there would be opportunism if we started a second reading ten or fifteen years after a first reading. However, we are dealing with this question of constitutional review, or with the question of how we deal with the Constitution and the review of the Constitution in the case of all kinds of legislative proposals. That's the question I raised this afternoon. I indicated then that we should put our hands in our own bosom. I have made a number of proposals. You could have a commission in the Upper Chamber, or maybe a commission from the Upper Chamber and the Lower Chamber together to think about it. We could, in line with integrity, regularly coordinate in the Seniors College and/or have an annual debate on it. We could even choose to stop the process from time to time on the basis of concerns about the constitutional framework. Mr. Chairman. In this debate, I decided not to ask for a choice to be made. I also presented this for the self-evaluation of the Seniors' College next week. I hope it can be discussed there. As a result of this discussion, we can always see how we can proceed with this important issue. I have also experienced a sense of urgency on this issue with several colleagues, not to make a decision today, but to do so next week, in terms of life and well-being. I co-signed the Vos motion. I am referring to the following. In December we would have had a second appreciation. At least it should be in before the summer. I'll ask the Minister if he sees it that way. Thank you for this moment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u486	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I call Mr Meijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u487	Mr. Chairman. Compliments to Mr Doornhof for his maiden speech. Thank you to the Minister for the detailed answer. He has said several times: this is a major debate. The Chamber did not always manage to stay on these lines, but sometimes that was also a little up to the Minister himself. As soon as he dropped out of the school a little bit more, the Chamber flew in there and the minister crawled back into his shell. I guess that didn't work out too well. That is why I have not interfered too much. I think the minister can listen and that the minister can count, with and without an app. I'm not giving advice to the minister on what to do with him. That's the kind of thing the cabinet has to answer for afterwards. I would like to make one more point. I said this afternoon that I would not object to discussing a proposal on another election of the Supreme Court. The rest of the Chamber has shown a great deal of commitment to this. Moreover, the VVD Group has the right to choose its own arguments, whether or not they relate to the state elections, and whether or not they are housekeeping. I did say something about our consideration. I almost had the impression tonight that part of the Chamber wanted the amendment of the Constitution that did not go through in 1983, and so a direct election, especially because the political side was very stressed. I would like to agree with the Hoekstra motion. I only looked it up for a while. If we are talking about the First Chamber, but this is also true for the Second Chamber, then it is nice to look at all the proposals for amendments in conjunction with each other. Then you can vote on it separately, but at least you could relate them to each other. I said this afternoon that the minister seems to be losing control. He referred to that a few times today. That's kind of true. Let me at least say the following. If you report in May and before the summer, then you are simply not complete as far as I am concerned. Then you will report what you do have and some proposals may go to Category C, but at least we will be aware of that and we will know where we stand. When I heard it all like that, I thought: we are very much engaged in an exploratory debate here, and the government is taking advantage of that. This afternoon the Ostrogorski paradox was mentioned by Mrs. Vos. In other words, if you form a cabinet with five or six parties or four, you are going to make all kinds of compromises that may differ from the majority's position on certain points. You can't settle everything in a coalition agreement and just talk to parliament more often and then develop your proposals if we actually stay in such a fragmented political environment. I think that is a more subtle approach than a binding corrective referendum, which we think is a bit of a horse's tool. I said enough about that this afternoon. We will not support the motion for a resolution on the substance, nor will we support the procedure. There's an initiative proposal from Van Raak. That's in procedure. I quoted this afternoon from the opinion of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, which asked us last week to take a closer look at it. At that time, I spoke about consensus and majority democracy, in the light of the fragmented political situation at the moment. I think that here in the Chamber it simply requires a serious debate and that you should not go ahead with a motion for a resolution, even though we have not yet seen it, the government does not yet have a position on it and the House of Representatives has not yet said anything about it. I said this afternoon: the way we work here with each other does more to the position of the First Chamber than any rule. I'd like to give you that urgently if you finish your mind. Finally. I have already mentioned the participatory paradox, which is the second paradox, with the youth parliament as an example this afternoon. The Minister has only dealt with the youth parliament. I mean, don't take measures now to increase participation in which people who already participate benefit. The group that doesn't participate is much more complicated to achieve. That is not always through all kinds of parliamentary and participatory things. Involve them more in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u488	I hear the speaker of the VVD speak a lot of contemplative words about the present report, but this report came from the initiative taken by the VVD in this Chamber in 2014. I actually have a very simple question. Is what is now there, so the report and what the cabinet is working on, also what the VVD had hoped for? Are you satisfied with this? Is this what you expected from all this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u489	It is a report on the basis of which we can have a good discussion. I did say this afternoon that it may contain a little too many recommendations, which means it is running away a little bit and the debate is not so concentrated either. Anyway, I always like to do it on the basis of cabinet positions on the coherence of the whole. The position of the First Chamber is discussed and the question of what the changed social and demographic environment means for the parliamentary system. The cut-offs will also be dealt with. It is therefore a good basis to exchange views with each other. Probably we do not agree on all points, but compliments on the report. Of course, I have not been the author of the motion in person. I did not ask Mrs Duthler if she expected this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u490	Perhaps in sharpness: this was not just about Mrs Duthler's motion, but also about the step that Mr Hermans took in 2014. This in addition. I would also like to thank you for the response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u491	There's also a motion from your hand on the position of the First Chamber. This afternoon I tried to stress on behalf of the VVD that we should try to strengthen the position of the First Chamber by being distinctive, being qualitative and offering a little more. From this point of view, the VVD looks at the various proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u492	Thank you, Mr. Meijer. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u493	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very much for his detailed answer and the pleasant way in which he has done so. He said: we are really having a debate on the main points. I noticed that at times when it was about the main lines, he loved not going to the details. Let me give you an example. I have mentioned two main lines which are really contained in the report, although they are not defined as the main ones. They are in it: the broad basis of democracy and political-democratic culture. You have said good things about this. Thank you for that. If we want to conduct the debate on the main points, I would like to invite you, in your full response, to follow up on these two points as well. I understand you can't turn everything into legislative proposals. I'm not asking you to. You indicate that it is also a facet policy in my words, which must always come back. If you think so, and I think you do, I would be delighted if you could also undertake to do so in that full response. I would like to thank you for the two commitments you have made in my direction. In any case, I have noted that you are nevertheless coming up with a document with different possibilities of constitutional review and the choice made by the cabinet and that you are responding to the threats from inside and from outside about ICT. Thank you for that. As far as motions are concerned, I would like to make one point: Mr Cliteur's motion for a resolution on the dikasocracy. I have to say that he surprised me a little bit. I have also seen that he has written an extensive article on Dooyeweerd in the past. He concludes that article by saying that he feels comfortable with the legal principles of Dooyeweerd. I actually think Dooyeweerd would turn in his grave if he read your motion. I have a good explanation for that. I think Minerva's owl has brought you new insights. In the debate, the Minister once made the fine statement 'you should not make proposals where we do not make proposals'. I've been thinking about that. The good thing is that this pronunciation is always a meaningful statement, where you also replace "no" with "no" with "no." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u494	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u495	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for his answers and congratulate Mr Doornhof on his maiden speech. He has indicated that he already feels very at home here when he is also in this place. I have great respect for that. The 50PLUS Group is and remains opposed to delayed voter preferences. Now that we have talked all day about involving voters and citizens more in politics and representative democracy, we certainly should not want that. I do not have a motion, nor do I have a motion on the non-coupling of entirely independent proposals. I would therefore fail the Hoekstra motion, because it stands in this house like a house. I heard the wording that has just been used by several colleagues. Come up with proposals that may be consistent, certainly in the eyes of the cabinet, but at least deal with them in such a way as to ensure that each proposal is a legislative proposal of its own. That was also at the heart of the Hoekstra motion. To support that, I would like to make a brief comment. A Constitutional revision at second reading at a unified meeting can take place every thirty or forty years. The fact that we are discussing individual proposals on this subject when we are talking about a return to the time before 1983, does not affect every 40 years, but every four years. This has the consequence that profit and loss are halved. Finally. With me all day, but also earlier, came the memory of the moment when I came to the Lower House in the 1970s, after having had a seat in the Den Uyl cabinet. Then my successor came up with the proposal that we should not be frightened to allow tax relief in the case of delegation and to include it in the Constitution. That was his proposal. Then Brinkhorst and I had to table an amendment in reverse order to block it. We needed a two-thirds majority for that. I would like to point out that in the House of Representatives I said that a little later on a cabinet could come up with a proposal that goes a long way in principle. If you are not careful, it will cycle through such a Lower House, especially at first reading, so I'm still proud that I was together with Brinkhorst, from D66 before that we were able to avoid that happening together in the cabinet. Therefore, Article 104 of the Constitution now states that taxes can only be levied on the basis of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u496	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Finally, Mr Doornhof has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u497	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, modesty fits me now that I just delivered my maiden speech. In order to think that you can reflect on such a whole debate, it might be a wrong signal right away. However, I actually did so when it came to the preliminary procedure in committee. I said that it was a model of structured and careful work. And now I'm just going to reflect on the whole debate, Mr President. And yet I think that I shall do it only a little bit, President-in-Office, on the basis of the debate since this afternoon that we have tried to do so. I think that has also been achieved, given the way in which the debate has been conducted in plenary. You can really disagree about the solutions. That is what the Minister has put forward. But of course it is also encouraging that opinions on the problem analysis differ much less, especially as regards the inadequate representation of content. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Minister. He has taken a long time and explained very quietly what lies behind the government's motives. As far as my group is concerned, he has also ensured that we are getting a little more organized. Maybe I can put it that way. For us we now work a bit more in a logical order, because also the First Chamber has been able to make its point. This may give a little more political legitimacy, regardless of the constitutional aspect, in order to go further with the recommendations of the State Committee. Mr. Chairman. I must also say in between that this is, of course, special. We're talking politics and state law. I did that at my maiden speech in the presence of my old teachers in Leiden, Cliteur and Koole. You understand that that brought some extra tension to that maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. One point in the direction of the Minister, if that's all right. I would also like to make a point about the link between, on the one hand, limiting, if I may put it this way, our power in the constitutional review.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Several colleagues have spoken about this. Apart from the question of whether you should deal with these proposals separately or as comprehensively as possible, my group would like to draw particular attention to this coherence. As far as the substantive motions are concerned, I may have to issue some kind of explicit profit warning. I have already implicitly done so in my first term by saying: we can only give a few shots, because we are indeed not dealt with by state law until the House of Representatives and the government have made their say. Perhaps I should say a few words about Professor Cliteur's motion, which seems to me to be the only one I can say about the question of whether it is okay if gravity goes too far to the judiciary. The answer to that is no. I find it a little difficult to make a kind of normative ruling on the basis of that single Urgenda judgment. In the end, it's about balance. Moving on to the other side isn't good either. Mr Kox has also pointed this out in the direction of the PVV Group, where the proposal was concerned. It is, of course, the case that we have said: when it comes to the question of whether you should proceed to constitutional review, you must bear in mind the counter-argument that is actually put forward by the State Committee, namely that we, as legislators, are ultimately democratically legitimized. I will admit that in the direction of Mr Cliteur. As things stand at present, that is a good argument to say: we are also talking about whether or not a law complies with the Constitution. Then I will return to Mr Schalk, because then you could say: then you must also take this role extremely seriously. Of course, I have only been in this Chamber for a few months, so I feel modesty again, but I have the impression that the notion of legality, which is one of those three formal criteria, is actually present here. That could have a backup. As far as my group is concerned, it is wise to discuss this further. Mr President, my last point is that unless Mr Schalk has something to say first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u498	With my input on this subject, I have absolutely not wanted to say that we do not have any attention here, but that there are moments and a number of legislative proposals have been mentioned which do not do enough. So I fully agree with Mr Doornhof when he says: I see that it is being monitored very closely. I fully agree with that, but let us also look fairly in the mirror at those subjects where we have let it run and see how we can make the Upper House even more effective in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u499	Carry on, Mr. Doornhof. You are now out of your speaking time, so perhaps you want to come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u500	Yes. I would like to thank Mr Schalk for his explanation. He finds the CDA group on his side. Then there is really one final point, Mr President. That is the procedural point that concerns Mr Vos' motion. I would also like to hear a reply from the Minister on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u501	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u502	Let me get my papers in order. Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for their second term contribution. I forgot to congratulate Mr Doornhof on his maiden speech. That's always a good time. He has so much experience and history and much more future ahead of him. This is a good time to make such a speech in this Senate on such a subject, I think. Compliments for that. Mr. Chairman. I liked the debate. A number of Members rightly said that every time they tried to make it more concrete, I crawled into my shell. It is not my natural tendency to get into my shell, I must say, but I felt that a general debate should also be a major debate. Free exchange of views applies and everyone speaks, but above all everyone listens. I also had the impression that this was happening from all sides. I've appreciated that very much. In the direction of Mr Schalk, who asked for this, but also Mr Van Rooijen, I say: I take the impressions I have gained here, of course, and I will take advantage of that. I did like that Mr Schalk was talking about looking to each other and a government that chooses its own urgency. What you think is important on that whole list of parts is all political. It is interesting to see that there are so many different views about how you weigh that and what proposals can be supported and effective. Then the proposal that Schalk and Van Rooijen made about the interpretation of the Hoekstra motion from 2015. It is always nice to see how motions from former parliamentarians can still have a pass-through. Mr Van Rooijen went even further back in time and told how that worked. That's the kind of motion you have as a government to consider. I have been a parliamentarians myself, so I attach great importance to this. The proposal to consider this motion to be coherent is also what Mr Doornhof said, and at the same time not to treat it as a basket with one thick bow around it, like anything or nothing, is an extremely good approach. It also does justice to the nature of the different types of proposals, which do have coherence, but also need to be actively and individually weighed. So that's how I'm gonna commit to it. Then I have a number of questions that have not been answered. Mr Kox's point, perhaps. He said: wait a minute, what are we going to do about banning political parties? I don't want to make it smaller than necessary, and I don't want to make it bigger, but I still want to put it in context. At the moment, political parties are associations to be able to participate in elections. Associations are covered by the Civil Code and therefore also by the prohibition ground for associations in Article 2.20 Civil Code. Political parties are associations and can currently be banned on the basis of the Civil Code. Now one association isn't the other. We've had a lot of discussions about that. There are also motor clubs, and we also have football clubs and everything in between. The State Committee-Remkes has advised that the new Wpp, the Political Parties Act, should include rules for a ban tailored to the specific situation of political parties. The cabinet has adopted this recommendation and is now working on its elaboration. You'll see later. Mr Otten had asked me a question about the Wpp in the first term. Who's been spoken to now? Discussions have been held between the Ministry and party office directors on the implementation of the Wpp. In addition, a symposium was held last week with representatives of political parties. The main points have been discussed here. Then there will be the formal consultation. So there's still a whole process ahead of it. Mr Schalk asked what the main proposals contained in the Bill on Financing are political parties. An important element is the ban on donations from outside the European Union and the European Economic Area, with the exception of voters residing there, and a gradual adjustment of the level of the subsidy after the Second Parliament elections. The aim is to give political parties more time to adapt their organisation to the new level of funding. At present, this level is adjusted on the first day of the fourth month after the elections. In the proposal we are going to do so in a year, through four steps of 25%. Mr Van Hattem asked whether I would like to take what that means in relation to the agreements that are being concluded. He did not mention the term, but I think he meant a kind of democratic deficit that could arise if you only conclude agreements. That's one side of the coin. The other side is that chords that you conclude are freely accepted. We're a consensus society. This is also a way of dealing with each other: making compromises, making agreements with each other. That works in practice, is my experience, very positive. However, it is important to clearly define this framework role and the relationship between the controller and the legislator/exporter. If the Chamber or municipal councils were to be sidelined by agreements of this kind, there could be a democratic deficit. We are talking to the local authorities to see how we can rehabilitate that relationship, because, of course, you have a discussion around common regulations. We're also working on legislative proposals on this. The State Committee has made no specific recommendations on this point. In the context of this debate, I see no need to think differently. Mr Verkerk wondered whether I could agree, in addition to my previous commitment, to include the red threads he has appointed with these multiple dimensions in the subsequent report to the Chamber. I'd be happy to do that. It seems appropriate to report in line with the format of the Remkes Committee. The elements raised in the debate are elements that simply play an important role, so I can include them in that report without any difficulty. Mr Van Hattem asked where the idea of the list combinations came from. Moreover, these list combinations are not yet a detailed proposal. Those are directions, ideas and so on. I also had to find out exactly what that was about. The point is that, if you study the Danish electoral system, it can be useful to look at lists in this context, because the example was the Danish electoral system. This could be a compensatory measure for smaller parties. That has also been discussed before. Anyway, that's one variant that's being looked at. There are several variants. I can tell you that is not a variant we are staring blindly at right now. That's not a goal-based argument. The introduction of list combinations is not at all a matter of substance. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have been tabled. As far as those appeals to the government are concerned, I think I'm supposed to see that for an appreciation. Now I don't think they're in the right order. That will, of course, be a problem... Doesn't matter? You're flexible? Okay. Well, I have a motion from Van Hattem here, but I don't have a letter. That is the motion calling for the abolition of the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u503	The N of Nico. 34403, N.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u504	That motion is primarily directed at the Chamber itself, so I don't know if you expect me to make a judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u505	No, only if you need it and otherwise you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u506	You can guess, I think, what the verdict is. I indicated this earlier in the debate. Um... Yeah, here's another... It's a little chaotic. It doesn't go in the right order, but it all has to be answered and commented on. Mr Van Hattem had asked what the cabinet is doing to restore citizens' confidence in politics. This is not only about system changes, but also about culture, about attitude. It is about trust in the implementation of policies. There's been a lot to do recently. A report has also been published on this subject, Space and Rules, which I recently sent to the Chamber. The debate will undoubtedly take place on this subject. This is about how much you want to determine centrally everything, or that you also want to give space to policy makers, people who are in contact with citizens, to have some room to deviate where necessary. It is important that we communicate with citizens in a good way, that citizens can reach us and that we are not inaccessible to citizens, even in the event of problems. In this respect, the case with the Supplements Service has produced a lot of examples of which one might say that some correction is necessary. That's what we're gonna pick up. Mr Ganzevoort spoke about the regional component. We didn't quite hear each other. When I said that there were other elements involved than that regional component, I meant the civil forum variant. Mr Ganzevoort apparently spoke of the Danish model, as I understood in the second term. That is where the regional component plays a very important role. It is one element in this civil forum, but other elements would also play a role there. So for me there was talk confusion and this means that, whatever model you choose, you can use it for each model on certain parts, for example on that regional origin, but it can also simply assign extra weight to the origin of candidates, depending on the model you choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u507	Thank you for this clarification. This is, of course, an important point. Because when you talk about the formal democratic processes, the government chooses only that regional point. My objection to this was that it gives you too one-sided a weight to that regional. Perhaps that should be better thought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u508	I understand you're making that comment. Some models have several elements in them and others only that regional aspect. That's right. Then I come to the motion under letter O of Mr Cliteur and others. I do not think I need to judge that either, because that is an expression. The same applies to the motion under letter P, including Mr Cliteur and others. The motion-Otten under letter Q asks for an investigation into the possibilities for introducing an elected Prime Minister. As has already been mentioned, I would like to point out that the State Commission has not come to the recommendation of introducing an elected Prime Minister. The committee came up with another variant, namely the chosen formatter. I also had a debate on this with Mrs Vos. The cabinet has previously indicated that it does not accept this recommendation. It does not make sense, then, to accept these far-reaching proposals. So I must discourage this motion. Next to Mrs Vos and others' motion under letter R, which calls on the government to respond to the remaining opinions and to draw up the previous opinions by the summer recess of 2020. I think this motion is important. You have already noticed this, without me being able to make it clear at what point in time I can come up with it. I think that summer is a reasonable time-limit, just because everything that is seen from proposals to amend the Constitution is practically impossible after that date. That there is therefore a moment in advance to weigh up what is already in the planning, and what is known more than what I can now report, so that the First Chamber has a good picture of it, I would like to say. Whether I can carry out all those things in it, so I can also turn that B list into concrete actions, I cannot promise, because that also depends on acceptance. However, I can assure you that with the whole list, as it is now, I will come to the Chamber in an updated version for the summer and thus make it clear what the state of affairs is. So if I can read the motion like that, I can leave it to the Chamber. Mrs Vos also had a question about the gap and the breakaway. She had also spoken about this in her first term. How can this gap be closed through digital citizenship? Does this include the issue of low literacy? Yeah, I do. I've been very active with low literacy over the past year and a half, because I really believe you can do something about it, both by bringing people who are low-literate to a higher level, but also on the other hand by adapting your communication to that group. I really believe that if you're aware of that, you're called "inclusion" we can counteract the feeling of pulling out. This requires a great deal of effort from various departments. In the context of the agenda NL DIGIBETTER, in which we have taken a number of measures to draw specific attention to this, we also see in practice that this really leads to very enthusiastic reactions. In any case, I note from the contacts I have with the citizens that there is a great deal of enthusiasm among the groups representing the interests of that category, but also among the municipalities, in order to work on this, also in the context of the direct clear campaign, about clear public communication. You can't overestimate how important it is to be active in that way. The National Human Rights Action Plan, which I sent to the Chamber before Christmas, also pays very much attention to the accessibility of public services and the information about them, particularly for vulnerable groups. Mr President, I think I have answered the questions. If that's not the case, I'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u509	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-eerstekamer-6.u510	I shall now come to the end of the debate. I propose that we vote next week on the motions tabled, and in any case jointly and severally on the 34403 letter N motion, as requested by Mr Van Hattem.
