ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u1	That is the debate on the opportunities of farmed meat. Seven speakers have come forward. Each speaker has four minutes' speaking time. First of all, I give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66, who has also requested this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u2	Mr. Chairman. Winston Churchill once wrote an essay in which he expressed his surprise that keeping animals is a cumbersome method for eventually eating meat. In 1931 he provided the opportunity to make farm meat. That is an inspiring challenge, similar to the first man on the man. Because, Chairman, for our daily flesh, we prey on the earth. If we look at the use of biomass, all that we produce on Earth, then one third of it is used as animal feed. With a growing world population, which also eats more and more meat as prosperity grows, it is a fiction that can do so with the current agricultural model. Anyone who claims that we must export this current Dutch model deserves the noble prize for fiction. It just can't be, because you need three globes to feed all people. That's why D66 is focusing on circular agriculture where we're going to use the Earth much more efficiently. Unfortunately, there is still very little of that. And then grow meat. The Minister writes that she will continue to follow developments. That can't be true with a technology with so much potential! Imagine that the CEO of Kodak had said: we continue to follow the development of digital technology with interest. Imagine if Nokia had said: interesting, that smartphone, we'll keep an eye on it. Oh, no, they said that. But those companies are bankrupt. This attitude is a bit like that of city drivers who followed the development of the car with interest and in the meantime continued to focus their policies on reducing horse manure in the streets. A minister of tomorrow shouldn't be yesterday. D66 expects not only an open attitude but also direction from the cabinet. The most difficult route for young businesses is the approval of farmed meat as novel food. The government has experience in dealing with difficult, bureaucratic organisations such as EFSA. How do you make a file? How do you ensure that the raft and with a positive result go through the procedures? Help these companies with this! Mr. Chairman. In addition, it is necessary for the government to allow experiments. So not confiscate a piece of farmed meat, but ensure that the product can be developed in such a way that the dossier can be submitted. This simply includes tastings. In Germany it is allowed. I lend myself as a volunteer, as a test subject, for the first piece of farm meat, but I honestly do not feel like finishing that tasting with a criminal record. That is not the attitude of the government that is needed. Simply make sure that experiments are allowed. This is necessary for product development. Allow the testing of farmed meat under controlled conditions. It is now becoming increasingly clear that the livestock in the Netherlands is far too large. This solution is too late for the nitrogen crisis, but in the long term, farmed meat is an excellent alternative in terms of reducing the environmental impact of livestock farming, with minimal use of water and land and minimum greenhouse gas emissions. And not to mention the avoided animal suffering. Eat meat, not animals. I'm rounding up. The Netherlands was among the first countries to see the potential of farmed meat, which led to the first patent, in 1999. China, Israel, the United States and Germany are now in a race to launch the first commercial market. The Netherlands is missing in this list. Make it an inspiring journey to the moon, to prevent the earth from going to the philistines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u4	Mr. Chairman. The nice thing about a subject that doesn't have a lot of history here in the House of Representatives.That's the case with tonight's topic: farm meat... is that you don't really know what the fellow groups are like. No trenches have been dug yet. I am also looking forward to the debate, because I do not know exactly where everyone stands. I've heard D66 now. I am also very curious to hear what the Party for Animals will say, and the CDA and all the other parties. We have prepared this well as House of Representatives. We visited an exhibition next door at the Mauritshuis. We have seen all kinds of innovations from Limburg, which plays an important role in the development of farmed meat. And we've had a round table where we've talked to all kinds of experts. I myself went into that round table to look for the controversy that might possibly have been about farmed meat, because I didn't know what our position was either. GroenLinks has no position on farmed meat in the election programme. In addition to the round table conversation and the questions we have asked there, I have also been looking in my own constituency for how it is discussed. What comes up soon then, you can also see it in the reactions on Twitter when we announce that we are going to talk about this. It would be a disgrace to eat farmed meat, because calf serum is needed in the growth of the cells if you are making that farmed meat. But we have also received all kinds of letters in recent days from companies that would like to be involved in the development of farmed meat. They say: that calf serum is no longer necessary; it can also be in a vegetable way. Another objection that is sometimes mentioned is that a lot of energy is used in the production of farmed meat. Those who would like to go on with it say: yes, it is now, but if we scale it up, it will be not so bad and it will be many times less than the energy that is now needed in the livestock industry. There are also people who say: I do not want to eat from a laboratory; I just want real food and not from a test tube. Actually, I don't have much to argue with that. At the same time, if you now have a piece of meat on your plate, we are dealing with a livestock industry that is actually running against the environmental limits in the Netherlands. We have the enormous problem of nitrogen, which is also a result of ammonia emissions. And we have the weekly abuses in slaughterhouses. Chicken meat also offers huge opportunities. We need less agricultural land and less water. Of course, a man can do without meat. There are also people who don't eat meat at all. Although we think it is very good that people are going to eat less and less meat, we do not believe that everyone will become vegetarian. That's why farmed meat also offers huge opportunities. I have two questions for the Minister. The first is: what does she actually think of farmed meat? I have not been able to make it clear from the letter and I also agree with the spokesperson of D66, who said in his speech that it is a very passive letter. It's a description of what's going on. The conclusion is that what is going to happen is going to be followed. I also believe that we, as the second agricultural exporter in the world, can make a difference. What are we going to do with this development? Let's leave it with the old? Let us be overtaken by countries that are more vigorous in this respect? What has the Minister done over the past three years to make this a success? I am very curious to hear her answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you. There is a question from Mr Madlener. It's an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u6	GroenLinks is always such a huge opponent of the use of growth hormones in livestock farming. The import of hormone meat, as GroenLinks always calls it, aims to restrict GroenLinks. Now I am curious about GroenLinks' position on the use of growth hormones in breeding meat laboratories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u7	Of course, we think it is very important to look at the safety of farmed meat. That is also something that needs to be extensively tested, as the Minister writes. Growth hormones? We're in favour of animal welfare. When it comes to farmed meat, you're talking about a laboratory, not an animal, but a substance. That's really something else, we think. We certainly believe that its impact on human health should be assessed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u8	I do not think the answer is quite clear. GroenLinks is very clear about the growth hormone in livestock farming. She doesn't want to. But with farm meat? What does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance think about that? I still don't know. Can growth hormone be used in the development of farmed meat or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u9	That's one of the things. It's new, so we don't know. First of all, we want to know whether the growth hormone to be used will also enter human beings and whether it will have adverse effects on human health. I have no idea. All that needs to be figured out. I'm the first one to say, "we don't do it" once there's big downsides to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mr. von Martels. Did you want another interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yes. I have a question for you to clarify. I just heard that the Netherlands should not let other countries eat the cheese of bread. So if the Netherlands wants to have a chance to be strong on this particular part in the future, then the Netherlands must play a leading role. Does GroenLinks mean that if this product becomes successful in the Netherlands, the Netherlands can strongly promote it as an export product? How far do you want to go in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u12	The Netherlands has a tradition of innovation, both in water management and in agriculture. Since it started here in the Netherlands, I can imagine that this will also become a sign for the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u13	I find that a bit difficult to reconcile with the sounds I've always heard from GroenLinks in the past. If agricultural products are promoted, exports cannot be an end in themselves, but a means of strengthening businesses. How does GroenLinks see that? Is it an end in itself to promote such exports or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u14	Nothing is an end in itself. We are a country of merchants and we think it is important that our economy flourishes. GroenLinks opposes the livestock industry today, because it has a lot of negative effects. That is what we heard in D66's speech. Everyone knows what's going on. We are here on a weekly basis to debate or to ask for debates on abuses in abattoirs. It's not gonna stop. This is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u15	Thank you. There is also an interruption by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u16	It's more of a practical remark. Perhaps Mrs Bromet could ask the Minister if she could refute that story about the growth hormones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u17	Mrs. Bromet, would you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u18	This raises the question to the Minister about the growth hormones and the farmed meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u19	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party has in the past been the party that fought for a worker to get a ball chopped on his plate. Meat was nutritious, was considered luxurious and tasty and had to be affordable for everyone. Meanwhile, in the Western world, the consumption of animal protein has risen to about 70 grams per person per day. 20 grams would do. You can also eat completely without animal protein. Well, you'd have to go to a lot of trouble. You have to make good considerations and choices. Mr. Chairman. If the level of eating meat in quantities of 70 grams per person extends all over the world thus as well as countries with an increasing welfare level that are going to consume quantities of animal protein..................................................................................................................................................................................... That puts a huge batter on soil, water, raw materials and energy. That is a problem that we cannot put our heads in the sand for. That's what we need to do. Mr. Chairman. Then there are two roads. There is a trend in society that says that consumption of meat should be discouraged and perhaps even banned. That does not seem to me to be the right way forward. I really think that an innovative country like the Netherlands has the task of innovating. In the past, we've done the same thing. Look at clothes. We hardly wear any animal clothing anymore. We don't do that because we find it so pathetic for animals, a lot of people think it's pathetic, but because we've developed better alternatives. We've developed textiles and synthetic clothing. That's more comfortable. It's a positive choice for people to choose that type of clothing. Mr. Chairman. That is also the way we should go when it comes to the consumption of meat. Business and science must innovate. Chicken meat is a cure. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is not the only means. It's promising, but the production is still expensive. If production gets a larger scale, then the cost can go down. It will have to be safe, affordable and nutritious. Mr. Chairman. Chicken meat isn't the only instrument. Innovation should also extend to meat substitutes; preferably meat substitutes, even the most fervent barbecue fan says, "Damn, this is better than meat." That way we can seduce people to eat less meat. I have the following question for the Minister: does she share the analysis that it is not possible to maintain this level of consumption of animal protein worldwide, because of the growing level of prosperity in the world, because this is overly affecting soil, water, raw materials and energy? Does she share the view that the Netherlands as a leading food country should take the lead in developing alternatives to meat? Does it share the view that this should extend not only to farmed meat but also to meat substitutes which are nutritious, tasty and affordable? Does it share the view that, in view of the public interest, scarce raw materials and the storage of space, water and energy, there is also a public task here to stimulate innovation, production and marketing? Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go to a roundup. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. I share Mrs Bromet's view that this could be a nice debate, because this is a subject where all parties are not yet in a shooter's pit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u21	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u22	Mr. Chairman. A transition to a sustainable society includes not only an energy transition, but also a protein transition. Today we are talking about farmed meat. In the future this can play a role in the transition to sustainable food production, but the only thing we know for sure is that it takes years before the farm meat is in the store. I'd like to take a look at the short term first. What's possible tomorrow? It is important to stress that tomorrow we can speed up the eitwit transition, because vegetable meat is already in the shops and is becoming less and less distinguishable from real meat. But that market is still relatively small. However, this vegetable meat can play a major role in a rapid transition to sustainable protein consumption, but that is not self-evident. Where is the policy to stimulate this change in behaviour? Will the Minister include concrete targets for the consumption of vegetable proteins, such as vegetable meat, in her National Protein Strategy? That is what this debate is about. As far as the Animal Party is concerned, this can be a good part of a sustainable protein transition, but the production of that meat should not depend on the livestock industry, on large-scale meat production. I'm gonna explain. The cells that grow meat is made of, they don't just grow. These cells need nutrients: hormones, certain proteins and growth factors. Before that, blood serum was the standard for a long time and that blood serum is tapped from live unborn calves. That now seems to be coming to an end more slowly on this matter later, but first of all I would like to go into more detail about the blood serum of these calves, because that is really the stumbling block for the acceptance of farmed meat. To make that fetal calf serum, the live unborn calf is cut from the pregnant slaughtered cow. It is cut out of the womb and a thick needle is inserted straight into the heart, a needle of about 15 centimeters, which is connected to a bag that is vacuum. That vacuum bag sucks the blood out of the calf. That's the basis of that fetal calf serum. Most of the serum is not from the Netherlands, which plays a very small role, but mainly from countries like Brazil and Argentina. These are countries where a lot of livestock is raised and where animal welfare plays a very small role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u23	There's been an interruption by Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u24	I hear the Animal Party say that farmed meat can play a role in the protein transition. I take it from that that the Party for Animals sees best under conditions. Then why such an extensive exposé about that calf serum, which is very bad, when that is not necessary according to all concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u25	It's not necessary, but it's still being used. There's a lot of fog around the use of that fetal calf serum. A year and a half ago, it was just used a lot. Now there are several companies that say they don't use it anymore. But what is then used remains foggy. Then all kinds of business interests are more important. We believe that openness is extremely important here. If in any way farmed meat remains linked to that fetal calf serum, it is completely unacceptable as far as the Party for Animals is concerned. If there is an alternative in the form of a plant serum where you can add those growth factors and that whole mix so that you get a vegetable variant of that calf serum, it is excellent as far as we are concerned. But that's not the case at the moment. Again, it is said "we are in the process, there are developments and we do not need to use it anymore," but I really want that absolute guarantee, the absolute certainty, that that fetal calf serum is no longer used for the production of farmed meat. Then, as far as we are concerned, the light goes green.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u26	That's exactly what GroenLinks thinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u27	Thank you. Then Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u28	A hearing was held on the initiative of D66. You were there, too. In particular, the companies that are currently operating have ensured that a plant-based serum is used. Now you are using your expensive speaking time to talk about something that is not really there anymore, and I think that is a shame. Now we're talking about a solution. Is the Party for Animals full-bodied for that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u29	That hearing was in September 2018. Then there were scientists who said there were developments, but it was certainly not said that every company is working on it and that every company uses that plant variant. I myself spoke with people from that sector in mid-2019, more than six months ago. At the time it was said: we are working, but at the moment it is not commercially feasible because it is not yet good enough. They said the developments are there, we're working on it, but we can't replace it one-on-one now. That was the situation I heard at least six months ago. Six months can be very long with this kind of innovative techniques. That is why I would like to know from the Minister whether she can guarantee that this fetal calf serum will no longer be used and that it can now be replaced one-on-one. Can it, therefore, also guarantee that the production and large-scale roll-out of farmed meat will be guaranteed at a rate of 100% without blood serum from unborn calves? I don't have that answer yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u30	You are actually throwing something that is no longer there, and you are holding back a whole speech. You're charging a little suspicion on you, aren't you? We are talking here about solutions to problems that you are often the first to identify in this Chamber. That's why I expected an opener attitude. Isn't it nice, also for the Party for Animals, to talk about solutions for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u31	Certainly, and we are also talking about those solutions. But we don't want there to be another direct link to animal suffering by means of a back door or a crack. So if we can get the guarantee that we can do without foetal calf serum, it's good as far as we're concerned. That is what this debate is about in the end. But right now, we don't trust all those CEOs from these companies on their pretty blue eyes. I really want the Secretary's guarantee. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u32	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u33	I told you, we are already working on these non-animal alternatives. Those companies all say we're busy and we want to stop the calf serum. That would indeed remove that important obstacle. But because of these business interests, because of those commercial interests, there is still a lot of fog and a lot of secrecy in this area. That fog and mystery must disappear. A comparison can also be made here with, for example, alternatives to animal testing. We would find it completely unacceptable that there should be an alternative to an animal test that could save thousands, tens of thousands of animal lives, and that would be kept secret. So also in the case of farmed meat: this must be made public and it must be done openly. Preventing animal suffering is more important than commercial considerations of companies. Does the Minister agree with me that this great secrecy surrounding the use of these non-animal alternatives to that foetal calf serum is undesirable, and that with openness around that replacement of that calf serum a lot of animal suffering can be avoided?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u34	There is another interruption by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u35	A second point is now being raised, namely 'the large companies'. Like that's a bad thing. Firstly, it is often the start-ups of young, highly idealistic people who want to improve the world with solutions that require technology.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u36	I didn't talk about big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u37	We will first listen to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u38	They are sometimes financed by large companies. The earning model of such a small start-up of those young people is to the benefit of keeping to themselves what they develop, in order to be able to patent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u39	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u40	So it's not the minister who's gonna take care of all this here, in some kind of state-led economy. Here it is precisely the vitality of young entrepreneurs who simply go for it, from idealism and with the heart in the right place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u41	And what's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u42	I'm a little upset about this. One positive sentence has been said about farmed meat, and then there are all fake arguments, first about the calf serum and now again about intransigence of business. I think that's a missed opportunity. I really want to give the Party for Animals an open view of the future. This is the kind of entrepreneurs, these young people we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u43	I would like to give Mr De Groot his pleasures, but he is now hunting the ghosts he calls upon himself. I didn't talk about the big companies. I did talk about the intransigence, including those start-ups. That's what it's about. It's all completely foggy and it's about keeping business secrets. There's now a search for the holy grail of that farm meat. It's not about big companies. Mr. De Groot is making it a caricature. I said: there is fog, there is uncertainty and there is intransigence. And it is!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u44	That's how you disqualify those companies. You're acting like they're doing something in secret. It's perfectly normal for them to keep their eyes on what they're inventing for a while. That's how it works. Then you're gonna apply for a patent and then you can make money with it. That's perfectly normal. You're acting like that's a bad thing. You are not doing any service in this, and you are not doing any service in your own agenda. Because those companies need to apply for a patent, and the research you need to do for that, you need to do it for yourself. That makes sense. But it does happen with plant serum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u45	Now Mr. De Groot is doing it again. Now he's chasing the ghosts he created himself. I'm okay with companies applying for patents on those plant serums, but they have to. Now there are dozens of businesses around the world that are all after the same sacred grail and are all working on that fetal calf serum and all trying to replace it. This could be much more coordinated and a government could play a role in this. Once again, in the case of animal testing, we would find it totally unacceptable that data should not be shared, as Mr De Groot knows. This is where it happens, with D66's consent. Well, the Animal Party doesn't accept that. Does the Minister share the view that the use of foetal calf serum is undesirable in any case? Is it prepared to impose a complete cessation of the use of calf blood serum as a requirement for the production of farmed meat before the production is rolled out? Can the government play a coordinating role in the further development of animal-free alternatives to foetal calf serum? There are also all kinds of universities that can participate in this. Anyway, for now, breeding meat is future music. But there is now a global increasing demand for raw materials for vegetable meat. In the cultivation of plant proteins for human consumption there is also a part of the solution to the food problem; Mr Moorlag referred to it as well. It's not just farm meat. Do not put all the cards on farmed meat, also bet on the development and production of vegetable meat. I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. Especially if we want to offer farmers a future perspective, the government can play a very important stimulating role. Make sure that the Netherlands is at the forefront of the production and consumption of high-quality plant food such as vegetable meat. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u46	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad we can have this debate tonight. It has been some time since this debate was on the agenda. In that respect, we have been able to grow quite a bit of sitting meat, but this evening, of course, the key question is: do we like farmed meat? That question is essential. Actually, we can answer that question with: yes, but subject to reservation. In September 2018, we followed with interest the round table of the permanent committee for LNV on farmed meat and meat substitutes: an interesting subject, in which the innovative power of Dutch industry was and is clearly visible. The Netherlands is even called the homeland of farmed meat. The potential benefits of farmed meat are impressive. It may require up to 45% less energy than conventional meat, as well as 96% less water and 99% less land. However, the role that farmed meat can play in making food policy more sustainable depends heavily on the further development of technology. In order to make farmed meat an acceptable alternative to animal meat, we consider it important that development and production take place in a safe and ethically responsible and sustainable way. The ethical aspects of the development and production of farmed meat are important to us. Some American companies use undifferentiated stem cells which are in principle infinitely divisible, but to which genes are added to encourage them to make muscle tissue. We are talking about a combination of breeding meat and genetic modification. As far as we are concerned, such techniques should not be applicable in the Netherlands. Can the Minister indicate to what extent national and/or European regulations exist which will ensure that this is not possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you. Mr De Groot's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr. Von Martels, you've had cheese before, haven't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u50	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u51	Those enzymes that can also be vegetable enzymes are just genetically modified. There's nothing wrong with that every day. We can throw "hormones" and "genetic modification" here, but that's all very common, normal stuff. You're going to cause a little bit of fear if you say it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u52	I don't have the impression that I'm sowing fear, quite the contrary. I said yes to the question of whether we see opportunities for farmed meat. Big odds even, but subject to reservation. There is, of course, a need for framework conditions in order to make it a success. That's what I'm trying to tell you right now. I haven't come to a conclusion yet. There are still a few aspects that I would like to mention, and it seems that I now have the opportunity of the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u53	Yes, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u54	We would also like to quote Dr. Jan van der Valk's statements from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Utrecht. I fully agree with what the Animal Party said. In this respect, there seems to be a joint venture between these two parties in the making. "There are disadvantages to the production and use of foetal calf serum. The calf is likely to suffer from pain and stress during blood sampling, and the composition of the serum is not always constant." In addition, the serum may be infected with pathogens. It has therefore been calculated that the production of 10 grams of farmed meat requires the blood of one unborn calf. It is therefore important to continue searching for a medium in which cells can grow without the addition of foetal calf serum. I also know from practice that it is possible to do that vegetable. We are very much in favour of this, but under these circumstances we are not in favour of it. Mr. Chairman. An actual introduction of farmed meat on the Dutch market is not yet on the agenda, but it can of course be done quickly. Can the Minister indicate whether a novel food application for farmed meat has been submitted at the moment? And if so, when can we expect a decision on this? If such an application has been approved, are there any other thresholds to be taken before farming meat can be placed on the market here? The Minister writes in her letter that she continues to follow developments in the field of farmed meat and that the role that farmed meat can play in the sustainability of food policy depends on the further development of technologies. That sounds a little wait-and-see. What is the role of the Minister for Farming Meat in the circular economy and in circular agriculture? And what role does it see for the government, for example in stimulating research into both the opportunities and the possible negative aspects of farmed meat? I'm almost done, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u55	I'd like you to finish your speech first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u56	If farmed meat is really to be appreciated by consumers, a more attractive name will have to be found and the price will have to fall significantly. If this is not the case, there will be more sitting meat to be grown for an early introduction. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u57	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u58	I appreciate Mr von Martels' contribution, because in view of vested interests, you might be less enthusiastic about it. There are a lot of reasons why you shouldn't want to, but there's one very good reason to want to, namely the potential that's in it. It must be safe, it must be affordable and it must be given a different name, but is it not the case that the government should not be too patient about this potential? Should it not actively stimulate innovation on this side? That is my question to Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u59	That is what I tried to say in the last paragraph I just mentioned. We see a somewhat waiting attitude from the cabinet. We would like to see a little more initiative taken to see what the opportunities really are and whether there are opportunities to further exploit them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u60	We spend a lot of time on innovation in the Netherlands. Given the potential and opportunities that exist, we should consider to what extent, within existing resources, public authorities could actively stimulate industry and science to come up with innovations in the field of farmed meat, or something for which we should come up with a different name. Is Mr von Martels also prepared to consider making an innovation agency available for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u61	On the question of whether we want to encourage it, the answer is clearly yes, but first we want to hear from the Minister under what conditions this is happening and whether it can indeed be done. I'm not in a position to make money available right away. In general terms, whatever the subject is, we believe that innovation is always an important aspect in which the public authorities have a role to play. I don't care if that's the government, or the provincial government, or the local government. There is always a need to see whether there is room for innovation, but I will not immediately use or search for financial space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u62	Mr Von Martels already hinted: it is special if the Party for Animals and the CDA agree. If it's about fetal calf serum, it's about fetal calf serum. Maybe there's something nice in the air, because this morning my heart jumped too. At eleven o'clock I read on the website of the NOS a piece about farmed meat. There is a quote by Mr von Martels: "One thing is certain: we do not agree with animal suffering or genetic interference." He just talked about genetic interference. That the CDA also does not agree with animal suffering, is that only for this debate or is that also true for more debates?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u63	The CDA always takes sides with the animals, so is always very concerned about the welfare of animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u64	That's what I wanted to hear, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u65	I was also surprised by the progressive attitude of the CDA in this debate. My question to Mr von Martels is whether he sees it as a disadvantage for the competitiveness of farmers engaged in the production of meat in the Netherlands, if farmed meat becomes a success.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u66	No, not at all. I think it can go very well together. We also know that meat consumption is going to increase worldwide, so I think that the need for farmed meat will also be such that it can combine very well. I see great potential in that regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u67	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u68	Mr. Chairman. I learned that the PvdA used to make themselves hard for the ball chopped and nowadays for a ball grow meat on your plate. You're gonna learn something. Like everyone else, I've been digging into farm meat. Then you start looking on the Internet and then you start bumping into all kinds of business secrets and startups. If you look further, you can see that it's about fetal calf serum, hormones, genetic engineering and that sort of thing. I'm gonna get a little suspicious. I would particularly like to ask the Minister about safety for public health. The enthusiasm of some Members of Parliament knows no boundaries, but it must not, of course, lead to a market with public health. I want the Minister's assurance that farmed meat can only be marketed if it is truly 100% safe, even in the long term. I do not think that farmed meat will be on the market so soon, but if it does, will it be on the label? Can people avoid it? There are also a lot of people who absolutely don't want to eat that. It shouldn't be forced. The government should not take an active stance to promote all of this. We have nothing against eating normal meat, provided that the animals have had a good life and are slaughtered in an animal-friendly way. As far as we are concerned, the government's wait-and-see attitude on this issue is fine, because it is up to companies to innovate and not to politics. If, in fact, farm meat can be produced at a low cost, can the Minister guarantee that it will not end up in the food chain in one way or another, without it being known, so that it will not be mixed with animal feed or other foodstuffs for humans? Then we know for sure what we eat and what we find on our plate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u69	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've said before that I'm fascinated by plants, but we're talking about meat tonight. In time I also like to eat a nice piece of meat and that's what a lot of people do. Meat consumption has not decreased in the past year and meat consumption will continue to increase worldwide in the coming years. The Netherlands is a large agricultural exporter. We have been able to meet this growing demand for meat for a long time. Of course, we have our Dutch farmers, who are among the most sustainable in the world and who are looking daily for even more efficient ways of production. A number of Dutch companies and universities are also working on a possible breakthrough: farmed meat. With the cultivation of meat in a bioreactor it may be possible to produce meat with less animal material. This is now possible after long research without the use of calf serum, also a condition as far as we are concerned. I myself have been to companies that do this without calf serum; that is good to realize. The development of this new meat has been in the Netherlands since the beginning of the 1980s. Wim van Eelen started it, a real Dutch invention. For a long time, the Netherlands has been the centre of research and experimenting with this technique and for a long time, one important obstacle has been encountered: unclearness. Unclearness as to where the limits lie in conducting research and uncertainty as to what needs to be met in order to be able to offer this new meat to consumers. It is therefore not surprising that our lead position is under pressure. We are in danger of being overtaken by other countries, such as the United States. The investigation is going a lot faster there. While we continue to doubt in the Netherlands, the Americans are giving this meat innovation an opportunity by allowing it to enter the market on the basis of clear rules. That also attracts investors. The Dutch producers have not yet reached that stage. They are, of course, responsible for taking the final steps towards the market, but taking that last step can help them by providing as much clarity as possible and removing as many unnecessary rules as possible. I ask the Minister what concrete steps it intends to take to provide the greatest possible experimental space for developers of this new meat. Does the Minister have a clear picture of what laws and rules should be adapted to that effect? What is the Commission's position on the request by the farms themselves to test the consumption of farmed meat in a controlled and local manner? The VVD embraces this meat innovation, but embracing it is not the same as hugging. Public research funding is not necessary. Recent news reports on investments collected in the Netherlands show that this is not necessary, but we may be able to use the existing research budgets of universities and knowledge institutions a little smarter. My question to the Minister is: what priority is being given to farmed meat within the research budget of the universities? Does she intend to talk to our universities, and I am thinking in particular of Wageningen, in order to see how we can remain the centre of new food innovations? Finally, Mr President. The VVD is always open to innovative solutions to societal challenges. The same applies to feeding the world. The Netherlands has always been a frontrunner in the field of food technology. That is what we are in the field of agricultural and horticultural innovation, and we can also become a centre of meat innovation. Produced meat offers us the opportunity to offer even more quality meat to the world with fewer raw materials. It's up to the minister to put her teeth in here. Thank you. A new name for "cultivation" could certainly be considered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u71	Thank you. A final interruption, a final question from Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u72	I hear Mr Weverling say that he agrees on conditions that this innovation is being encouraged. However, at the moment it is somewhat unclear with what measures and with what instruments you could do that. Does Mr Weverling share the view that the government should once look before the Chamber at what measures and instruments can be used to stimulate this innovation? I asked the question the same way, because I also tasted some hesitation with Mr von Martels. He says we don't have to pull the wallet immediately. It would be a good idea for the Court to have some insight into the measures and instruments to show this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u73	A clear and clear question from Mr Moorlag, Madam President. Yes, I think we should not look at these innovations on the basis of fear. It can also offer us a lot. And of course we're not right next year on the market. It's something for the slightly longer term. Of course. That is why we need to look at this carefully and in a structured way. It's about tissue culture. It's not about calf serum anymore. For example, it's about being able to take a biopsy out of live animals. That's just very important. This is not possible with the current legislation and regulations. So these are things that definitely need to be looked at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u74	Thank you. The Minister has indicated that she needs about 20 minutes for her preparation. I'm suspending the meeting until 8:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u75	I would like to meet with Members two interruptions in two, if that's okay. I now give the floor to the Minister to answer the many questions that have been asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All the word jokes have already come along about farmed meat: the sitting meat, the tasty snack. It is an interesting debate that is taking place here. How do we look at new food methods? Actually, that's what it's about: how do new ways of food come into being and what do we actually think of that? The most special comment I found was Mr Weverling's last comment. He said, "Maybe we should come up with another name." That's funny, because there's something in that name that raises the question: but what exactly is it and what is it about? You have a number of different layers in this debate. I think I see the following layers; I'll give it a try. There is the layer: how do we deal with sustainability issues? I see on one side of the Chamber a part that says: we have to keep fewer animals, and that is why this is an alternative. Part of the Chamber says: this is actually a new earning model, because we are going to eat more meat and this way you can produce it. Then it is not a substitute, but a supplement. There is also a part that says: they are all new forms of innovation, so you have to jump very much on top of that and continue with it, because we are still ahead of innovation. And then there are some questions with the members here and there. They say: but what is this really about? What exactly are you talking about? What's farm meat? This is a technology in which muscle tissue stem cells from animals are grown in a breeding ground and under ideal growing conditions by means of tissue culture techniques into a meat product, without killing or damaging the animal. That is the general starting point for what farming meat is exactly. Most Members have asked me exactly how I am in this and how I feel about it. That question has the suggestion that there are all very strong opinions about it. Let me frame it a little bit more. When we are dealing with new food methods and producing new ways of food, I think you should consider a number of aspects. Firstly, food safety. It's the lead. It's the lead. I don't think you should compromise on that. You really need to be sure he's okay. The second: what does it do in the total palette of proteins? We need protein to be healthy. What does it do in the whole palette about proteins that we use now and which we have at our disposal? There are also sustainability issues; that is what I am saying. There is also an ethical side to it. That was in mind Mr Weverling's last remark: 'cultivation' sounds so technical and so plastic. Questions were also asked here: what if it is based on the more biotechnology-like side? Mr von Martels gave an example of this. You'll end up in the GMO-like discussion. So we all feel that there are more sides to this case. For me, the next thing is important. I'm not an opponent of farm meat. As I wrote in the letter, I see farming meat as an interesting development. It stands for me in line with the alternatives that exist in the field of protein. As well as plant protein, it is simply an addition to the palette of the proteins we use. In the context of sustainability: yes, if more meat is eaten, it is of course also important to see how it is made and what that means for the strength of our earth. At the same time, I would mention that circular agriculture simply needs animals. We've talked a lot here about the rest flows and how you deal with them. In the Netherlands a lot of grass grows. We don't eat grass. Cows or other animals can convert grass into other products that we can take. For me, therefore, farmed meat will not be replaced for meat or animal proteins in width. I think it's an addition to that. In fact, in circular agriculture you also just need animals to achieve all other circularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u77	This calls for an urgent interruption by Mrs Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u78	I am thinking of the food system as it now operates in the Netherlands, and the question to what extent it is already circular. We are dealing with a huge surplus of manure and with the import of soya from South America. I understand very well what the Minister is saying, but it is not at all the case that we are on the verge of a shortage of manure to grow our crops?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u79	I was more in the process of sketching the general framework: do you no longer need animals in circular agriculture and can you handle it completely with farmed meat? I think that we really need to take steps to ensure that a lot of things, such as residual flows, change. I fully agree with Mrs Bromet that we are now underutilising the possibilities that exist. For example, we import soy scrap to meet protein requirements. In this sense animals also have a value, because they can convert it into something that can be consumed by humans. So we should not say right away: we should not do that anymore; we should go straight on to, for example, just farmed meat. I hear people don't say either, by the way. I just want to say that animals also have a role in circular agriculture. They'll keep it as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u80	We're talking about meat now. We are dealing with stables full of pigs, which are only there to produce meat. We also have a dairy farm. That's what the Minister's talking about when it comes to grass. You get milk from that, but a by-product of it is also calves. I agree with the Minister. I would like to take away the suggestion that this is a replacement of what we have now. But that we have too many animals and could replace some of the farm meat, I'd like to give you some.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u81	I'm trying to paint a picture. All I hear is that there are some gradations in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u82	Clear. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u83	The Minister mentioned food safety and ethical issues. I would like to urge the Minister to also consider the ethical issues of the current food system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u84	Sure, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u85	The longer you spend on the subject of farmed meat, the weirder you're gonna think you're gonna have to keep an entire animal around all those organs, just for the meat. And look at food safety as well. A stable, but also a slaughterhouse, especially with the tire speeds and debris that takes place every day, is not the most food-safe environment. Chicken meat is made in a bioreactor. If you consider food safety, do you consider food safety, the risks we run and the ethical problems of the current system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u86	Oh, yeah. That's not excluded either. You always have to ask how we produce our food, what that means and how we face each other. Animals are more and more approached in a kind of industrial way. That's what hits me, too. I really think we should have this discussion and this debate here. We need to see what that means for our animal husbandry. That does not rule out the need to do the same with regard to farmed meat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u87	Yes, but in that balance. I do not see these considerations in your letter on farmed meat at all. In particular, you mention the ethical and food safety issue with regard to farmed meat. That only makes sense to me if you turn that off against the ethical problems and the food safety issues of the current system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u88	It's not one thing or the other. It's about the whole thing, as I was just trying to point out. For me, this is an addition to the whole discussion we have with each other about proteins, about vegetable proteins, meat in this way and our normal, common way of taking animal proteins to us and producing them. I fully agree with Mr De Groot that we should also discuss this. We can't escape that. So is our role. That just doesn't mean I don't have to do that here. I think we should always do that and always look at how that relates to each other. But then it's not like we have to put it one over the other or something like that. I wouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u89	Let's talk about replacing meat. Mrs Bromet asked a question about this. I just wanted to make it a little more explicit. The Minister says: "Cultivated meat must or should not be a substitute for meat." But we slaughter 642 million animals in the Netherlands every year. That's 73,000 an hour, day in, day out, 365 days a year. Most of it is for export. A large part of this remains in the Netherlands, but does the Minister agree with me that farmed meat is meant to replace at least part of that bulk? Some of it's gonna be a replacement, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u90	First of all, let me correct something. I didn't say, "It has to be or it can't be a replacement." I'm saying it's a supplement to me. And then you get the broader question again: what does our protein consumption look like in the coming years? This applies not only to the Netherlands, but also to the rest of the world. We see an increasing demand, including for animal proteins. It's a burden on the Earth. That also simply burdenes everything that is related to it. Then you've got different tracks. The question is therefore: how do we deal with our own meat consumption? Do we also recognize with each other that it is good to eat more vegetable proteins, as we also say with the Disk of Five? It's good to take that in there. At the same time, I agree that we also have a responsibility to feed the world. We have a very fertile delta. This also means that we really do have the role to provide food to other countries. This is not only necessary with production, but it can also be done by knowledge or skill or whatever. You'll have to put it in your own country first. And that you look at the possibilities for other alternatives in terms of proteins, such as farmed meat, I can imagine very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u91	We're talking about the protein transition, so some of it will be about replacement anyway. That could be a substitute for vegetable proteins. Animal proteins can also be replaced by farmed meat alternatives, but in part we are talking about replacement and providing a perspective for the reduction of the current large numbers of slaughtered animals. That's one of the goals, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u92	I didn't say that was a purpose. I said, but then I take it a little wider than the Netherlands, that we see worldwide that the need for animal proteins is increasing and that this raises issues in terms of loadability, sustainability and so on. The fact that we ourselves look at our own food patterns and, for example, the amount of vegetable proteins in them, is also important to me. We have to look at that, too. We have a part to play in that. We should not just say: look at it there in China or India; good luck with it. No, it's our own responsibility, too. At the same time, we know that this may not completely resolve the issue, and that it will be one of the additions to that discussion. But I also say that it does not replace the ordinary animal proteins of meat from animals that have lived or anything like that. This is an addition to the whole protein package for me. Well, I think that's what I've been trying to outline the framework quite extensively. Then I shall go straight to a number of specific questions, although they have already snuck through a little bit. D66 asked why I'm so reluctant. I do not recognize the image that I am reluctant to do, but at the same time I believe that there is a responsibility for companies themselves if they want to do this kind of business. They will then have to take the steps themselves to do so. Research has been carried out on farmed meat. There's a lot of private money in that sector now, too. This brings developments forward. That's fine, only we also have a procedure to go through when you have such a novel food innovation. This concerns European legislation. Such an application should be submitted to EFSA. It must be carried through, also to demonstrate the following things. Is it safe in terms of food safety? What exactly is in it? What can consumers expect in this respect? There must therefore also be transparency as to how it was produced. All these aspects need to be clarified. I think it is very important that we go through this procedure. One will have no other position in it than the other. That's how we agreed, and I think it's important that we just follow those rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u93	Mr De Groot's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u94	Yes, of course there must be an approval as novel food; that is as ready as a cube. But in my contribution, I said that there are now several countries in the process of developing products, market introductions. That simply means that you have to be able to taste them. Before you get your file ready to send to Parma, you need to know what the product tastes like, because in the end it has to be sold as well. That is simply not allowed at the moment. So my question to the Minister is: is she prepared to give space to develop these products under controlled, food-safe conditions, simply by tasting them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u95	You can do that in a controlled laboratory setting. I understand that this is about tasting, so more from a marketing point of view. Just to put it this way: what taste is the best taste found by the consumer? You'll get to the food safety issues. That is what the regulation is pretty clear about: you just have to go through those steps before you get it. We didn't do that for nothing. Those rules have just been laid down by EFSA. It's pretty clear what those rules look like. No application has yet been made by any party in Europe. I understand that there is a far-reaching intention for an application. But I don't see why we should make an exception now, because marketing might be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u96	This answer offers an opening. The Minister says: no, no comprehensive consumer research, but it can be done under controlled conditions in the laboratory. So I can well imagine that there are volunteers who say: we do want to taste it. I'm such a volunteer myself. I would therefore like to invite the Minister to join me in testing in a laboratory and to show her that she is serious and that her positive attitude is more than just explaining the procedures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u97	I have a little more to do than take part in a tasting. Again, this is really something that happens in a very controlled, experimental setting; that does not happen on the basis of all kinds of test subjects who come by and say: I would like to eat a bite. I really want this to take place within such an application procedure, in a regulated manner, as is currently allowed. I'm not volunteering. Moreover, in clinical trials, for example in the case of medicinal products, it is now also true that it takes place under controlled, experimental conditions. But if Mr De Groot does sign up for it, he will be free to do so. I therefore believe that the existing procedures should be followed. Then there is Mrs Bromet's question: what do I think of farmed meat? I've just said a few things about that. What have I done to make it a success? In the past, there have been subsidies to research the poultry meat more, including at the universities in the Netherlands. You can see that there is now also a little more private capital or venture capital in the sector. We also have an arrangement for top sectors. Companies can do a call to participate. The protein transition is part of that. I do not understand that there is now a call in the top sectors for a grant application or something like that. It is really up to the companies themselves to do something with that. I'm not gonna call all kinds of companies to do that right now. I think they're commercial enough to be able to do that themselves. They simply have to go through the procedure we have agreed to. Then, through a comment by Mr Madlener, through Mrs Bromet, Mr De Groot's question on growth hormones. It's been put a little overwhelmed with me. Can I disprove the fact that there are growth hormones in it? To be honest, there is no need to use these growth hormones, but I do not know whether they really are or not, because there has to be more transparency about the exact composition of these products. And I think that is an essential argument: if you want to gain more support for something like farmed meat, you must also be transparent about how it was produced and about what is and is not in it. It's only in the interests of those who want to introduce that farm meat to be open about it. Those possibilities are there. There have been more initiatives in the past, for example with insects, another form of protein. At that time, more steps were taken with companies in terms of admission and transparency. I think that if you want acceptance to be higher, transparency is a very essential part of that. The answer to the question of whether there are growth hormones, I can answer with: it doesn't have to be. You don't have to use them. Whether it really is, I can't judge one-on-one, because I don't know exactly how it all happens. Then Mr Moorlag. He asked if the level of animal protein can be maintained. I just said something about that. If there is an increasing demand for animal proteins in the world, it cannot be sustained in this way. Hence, we are also looking at alternative protein sources, such as plant proteins. That should also be seen as a complement to that. Should we take the lead in developing the alternatives? I see a lot of companies that are already working on this, even in the plant transition. They now also see that there is an increasing demand for such products. So that transition is already going on. I know Dutch people as people who see market opportunities, who usually don't let go. That's about the meat substitutes. As far as I'm concerned, it's broad. What is the government's policy to encourage this? Is it a government task to stimulate this? As I said, we have the top sectors. The protein transition is one of the components. That's what companies can do. They can just get in on it. We also have various programmes at the universities in the field of plant protein. So, I think, more is being done in the broad research. Companies are also successful in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u98	I would like to draw attention to the public interest, the general interest, of the opportunity to produce protein with a smaller batter on land, raw materials, water and energy. Then I could imagine that as a national government, but also at European level, you would take the view that, in addition to all the generic possibilities that exist, it should be given an extra boost. I am not saying this to get specifically farmed meat rolled out, but to broaden the palette we have to meet our food and protein needs. We need to broaden our options. Does the Minister see that public, that social interest in increasing the possibilities of producing proteins in different ways? So more choice, and especially choice for roads that have a smaller footprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u99	Then you really come to the question: what exactly is the role of the government and what is that of the market? We are already using a number of tools to support these kinds of transitions more. I mentioned the top sectors. We have an SBIR. That sounds very technical, but that is simply a scheme that can also be used for the plant protein transition. I refer to the information we give about a good balance between animal and plant proteins. The Food Center does a lot of work on that. But as a government, you're not gonna develop all those products. That's really something from the market. I also see now that the market players are responding to this and that this is being done fairly successfully. I think that in recent years there has really been a huge acceleration in that transition. That happens without us as a government setting up all kinds of movements for it. We facilitate a part, but it is really up to the market to move that forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u100	I understand, but it's just like the energy transition. We feel the urgency to make system jumps in the production of energy. We are also making additional efforts to this end. Does the Minister share my view that an additional effort for the food transition is also justified? My question to her is also whether she wants to promote this in a European context, where we are talking about the Green Deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u101	So I am arguing that we are not doing anything about it. I have just mentioned a number of options and said how we already do. I think there are a lot of opportunities in there for companies to jump into that. I do not share the picture that is not sufficiently done. Then I really think that the market players themselves should continue to develop. Mr Wassenberg wants us to set real targets for plant proteins. We use the Disk of Five for a balanced diet. I have just said that we support this with information and with certain financial arrangements. Studies are also carried out at universities. But it's not like we're gonna say you're gonna eat so much of vegetable protein and otherwise... I don't really know what happens then: do we come by to punish you or anything like that? But precisely by providing information and alternatives and making things like that possible, we create consciousness. As regards the guarantee that no calf serum will be used, I note that here too the EFSA procedure must first be followed, so according to the novel food directive: what is it, what is it? Et cetera. That really goes on the basis of food safety. That calf serum doesn't have to be used anymore. You can just do it in a vegetable way. When, as a market player, you want to increase the acceptance of the products, it seems to me that you are also paying attention to them. The moment you know that there is resistance to the use of calf serum and there are alternatives, it doesn't seem wise to me to start using it. But once again, that is what the parties themselves must think of. It is not the case at present that there is a requirement for this in the procedure. You need to explain what's inside. I would also like to call for transparency here: show how it has been produced and show what it is and what it contains. That seems to me to be something those parties themselves should consider.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u102	I wonder if as a government you can ban the use of that calf serum.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u103	In the proceedings, I can't forbid it. The procedure for the authorisation by EFSA is a procedure in which you simply indicate what is in it. It is not the case that this is prohibited in advance. As a Member State, you do have some degrees of freedom in relation to what you then allow on your market. This is what you actually do for the purposes of European authorisation and then, as with plant protection, you will see in your own country what its application is. I really should check how far the degrees of freedom go. I don't know if that's possible right now, but there would be a little more room there than in the EFSA procedure as a whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u104	If that space were there, would the Minister also feel that such a ban should be introduced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u105	What I'm saying is, there's an alternative. If you have an alternative, I would seriously consider using it. But once again, I really need to look at the possibilities of restricting it. If you have an alternative where you don't have to use it, it would certainly be preferable as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u106	Thank you. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u107	The minister is making another caricature of what I said about that protein transition. It's a very easy debate trick: you make it a caricature and then you can shoot easily. I asked at some point whether the cabinet should not play a role in the transition to plant protein. The Minister says: we have the Disc of Five and the people have to see for themselves; we are not going to say "you will not eat animal proteins." The various successive cabinets have said that there needs to be a greater shift from animal to plant proteins, and scientists say so too. They all say: more needs to be done on plant proteins. We're about to discuss the National Protein Strategy, which I was talking about. I explicitly asked for it. Doesn't it offer a golden opportunity to bet more on those plant proteins? Then we don't just have to have the discussion about farmed meat. I also said that this is not the only possible solution, but that it could be one of the solutions and that we should bet on more horses in this case. Doesn't that National Protein Strategy offer a golden opportunity to focus more on plant, through information, through campaigns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u108	We're already doing that. The Nutrition Centre already provides information on what is a good relationship between animal and plant proteins and what are the possibilities that one has. Speaking of caricatures, I do not recognize the image that Mr Wassenberg puts down: that we are doing nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u109	Mr Wassenberg, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u110	I don't remember saying nothing's going to happen. I'm saying more needs to be done. At the moment when this protein strategy is in place, you can also say: we are talking about farmed meat, but let us also make much more use of the production and consumption of vegetable meat. That seems important to me. Plants are now being grown to feed animals. Make sure you grow plants that can be used for human consumption, for the production of farmed meat. Surely that could be a wonderful part of that protein strategy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u111	We will. I have already indicated in the top sectors what possibilities we have. The protein transition is part of that. I just mentioned the SBIR scheme. We have also put out a separate call for plant alternatives, for meat substitutes. We have the information from the Food Center and the campaigns around it. There are all kinds of initiatives. In that sense, they are all additions to each other. We have just had a discussion on whether it is a supplement or a replacement. As far as I am concerned, it is therefore an addition. In doing so, we recognise that there must be a proper balance between animal and plant proteins. I don't know that we're doing anything with that. Mr Wassenberg spoke of secrecy. I have just said that I will very much encourage transparency. That seems to me to be very important, also for the acceptance of this. We have just discussed the role of the government in promoting plant proteins. Mr Von Martels asked whether GMOs could be used in relation to farmed meat in the EU. Then you are no longer dealing with the novel food directive, but you are really talking about GMO regulation. It is very strict in Europe. Here too: show what the production process looks like. You don't have to put the whole process on the table, but at least you have to show what's in the product. We need to be transparent about this to some extent, so that the consumer knows what is happening and what is behind it. At the moment when something is involved, it is covered equally by GMO legislation, and it is therefore quite strict in Europe. I can also imagine a great deal of that. We also just talked about not adding foetal calf serum. I can't rule out the fact that it is now. I think that possible alternatives should really be used. I will certainly encourage that here too. Has a novel food application been submitted? Not yet. There is probably one in the pipeline, but it is more up to the companies themselves to give information about it. As soon as that happens, the whole procedure will be completed at EFSA. What role does farmed meat play in the circular economy and agriculture? That's what I've been talking about a moment ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u112	Let's talk about this novel food application. I'm actually surprised there isn't one yet. If I were to talk to companies about the opportunities that farm meat has, you'd say that application should have been there a long time ago. Does the Minister have any idea why no application has yet been made? Does this have to do with the regulation that imposes so many restrictions or are there other motives in the game?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u113	It is true that you have to hand in some files, just like all those things that have to do with our food safety. In a very different context, we often have this kind of discussion about plant protection products. There, the parties must also go through all these issues, including at EFSA, in order to demonstrate that what they do meets the requirements of food safety. That is also the case here. This is where we have to form the file. I admit this is quite a job. But I think it is important, because it is about our health and about food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u114	I fully agree that this must of course be done carefully, but sometimes you may wonder whether such an application procedure cannot be shortened. Is the Minister prepared to look again at the possibility of lowering the threshold initially set for companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u115	Since 1 January 2019, that whole procedure has been invested in EFSA. I am also realistic: I do not think that all kinds of changes will be made immediately. I also believe that due care must be taken here. It's also about something you want to make sure doesn't affect your health. It really lies with the companies themselves to demonstrate this. I believe that the procedure should be followed there, as we have drafted it. Then I come to Mr Madlener. He also raises the issue of food safety. I was just talking about that. He asked whether it could be included in the labelling of farmed meat if it was placed on the market. Labelling is a national matter, so Member States should do so themselves. We do not yet have an application for farmed meat in the novel food directive. But I would encourage it, also in the context of transparency, to show what is in it and what it is in it. I believe that the consumer is entitled to that kind of information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u116	Does this mean that the Minister will also demand this from the manufacturers if the farmed meat is allowed on the European market and thus also in the Dutch diet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u117	Let's start with the application procedure. That is the first step we must take. The moment something is approved, we are going to talk about this, but now everything just one by one. It was asked whether I can guarantee that it will not end up elsewhere in the food chain or the animal chain. The moment it's allowed, it's safe, too. Then it's not like you can rule it out somewhere else. It simply has to meet the requirements of safety: food safety, but also feed safety. That is the importance; that is what it has to meet. If that's the case, then you're not gonna rule out that kind of thing. Finally, I come to Mr Weverling. He's against the use of calf serum. I just let all my light shine on that. He says: the US is moving faster, because there are clear rules. There are also clear rules here, but an application must be made. Again, I think that application will come soon. Then the rules themselves are clear, but you have to go through the procedure. That's what I'm committed to, and I'm sure I want to stick to. The greatest possible experimental space implies that we are not going to follow those rules, because for experimental space you just deviate from the rules. I think we should just go through that procedure. Then the priorities for budgets at universities towards food innovations. At present, we do not have specific budgets for breeding meat at universities. As I said, we do have different budgets and other ways for companies to do a call to support them. I can see, however, that the universities are looking much more at the alternative proteins and that it is part of the research that is taking place. Then there's the new name for farm meat. I would like to challenge Mr Weverling to come up with a new name. Maybe we can still do that during this debate, if he has some creativity. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered all the questions put by Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the Minister's first term, but there is still an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u119	Yeah, sure. Let me use it anyway. I was hoping this wouldn't be the night of the missed opportunities. I'd like the Minister to take a look at one of those fun start-ups, Meatable or Mosa Meat. They do that very well. I have also asked the Minister if she has a clear picture of what laws and rules should be amended. That question has not actually been answered, but I can see from the whole tone of the evening that we will not get that question answered either. I'm just waiting for the second term, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u120	It's pretty clear. You just have to go through the procedure at EFSA. You're gonna have to apply for that. If it is not filed, it is not in all kinds of laws and regulations. You just have to follow the steps. I'm not the one who's gonna force someone to go through that procedure. It is really up to the market players themselves to make a choice. Then it's just pretty clear what to do. So I don't think the obstacle is in laws and regulations. Go make an application if you want to put this on the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u121	Biopsies on live animals, for example, is not yet possible. That would be something that should be possible. After a quarter of an hour I may charge the animal in the meadow again. What is against seeing whether this regulation can be changed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u122	The point, in my opinion, is not so much that stem cells cannot be extracted from animals. That's not the problem. I think it's just more the fact that you have to go through that EFSA procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u123	That really brings us to the end of the Minister's first term. We are now starting with the second deadline and I shall first of all give the floor to Mr De Groot for his contribution, which will give him the opportunity to table motions and ask any questions. Or to exchange conversations. I call Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u124	Mr. Chairman. My suggestion would be "meaty without beessie." That might be something to think through when it comes to farm meat. In the motion I use the term "cultivated meat." Now that I have allowed this debate to take place, I regret to note that I do not see the positive attitude which the Minister claims to have reflected in her contribution. A positive attitude and an explanation of how the procedure goes, I find two different things. I see the Minister in a way with double standards. The Minister has emphasized food safety a few times. I can mention a whole row of problems: MRSA, salmonella, campylobacters, botulism, BSE, FMD and antibiotics. These are the problems of the current system. So mention the problems of the new system. I don't see them, because it happens in completely controlled conditions. Also ethical: the keeping and slaughter of millions of animals in relation to the use of clean biotechnology. The Minister has said incredibly often the word 'transparency'. I have never heard that in debates on livestock farming. Are we going to ask Unilever to give the recipe for peanut butter? Are we going to hang cameras in the stables and in the slaughterhouses, so we can really see how these animals are being slaughtered? Then we are also transparent in the other branch of sport. So I'd say not double standards. Mr President, a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas farmed meat or meats offer great opportunities for the food declaration which the Netherlands stands for;]] [[Whereas farmed meat has a lower environmental impact than conventional meat and has no negative impact on animal welfare of livestock;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Government has shown a positive attitude towards farmed meat in the past;]] [[Whereas a stronger government direction is desirable on this issue;]] [[calls on the Government to promote a good climate of establishment for farmers by helping them with the necessary legislative pathways;]] [[calls on the Government to also provide experimental space for farmed meat and meat producers to contribute to safe and healthy market introductions of farmed meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Weverling. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-237]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u125	I just heard the motion. Mr De Groot calls for more experimental space, but he does not insert what that is. Then, of course, I cannot judge the motion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u126	Thank you for this clarifying question. It is about testing under controlled conditions; we have talked about this. It's about tasting products with farmed meat, so you can also judge the taste. That is important if we are to get that dossier approved in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u127	And the Minister replied that this can indeed be done in a laboratory setting. The Minister also said that we are not going to make concessions to the rules that apply to this. Now do I understand that you do want to make concessions to those rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u128	It can't be right now. It's not allowed to do that. Something really has to be done for that. We have to wait and see what the Minister's response is. There is no doubt that such a tasting has recently been organised in Berlin, so Germany does have room for it. If you don't have this space, it will be very difficult for those start-ups to ensure that their products are finally approved. And then the Netherlands misses an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u129	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks for her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u130	Mr. Chairman. I liked this debate. The differences here aren't that big. Most groups have an open attitude towards farmed meat. One has reserves for certain things, and wide when using calf serum. I am pleased that the Minister wishes to make a gesture in this respect. It seems that if it is possible to ban the use of veal serum in farmed meat, the Minister also intends to do so. The Party for Animals is about to table a motion on the use of that calf serum, a motion that I have co-signed. Use of calf serum is unacceptable for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u131	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u132	Mr. Chairman. I miss eagerness and urgency with the Minister. There is a growing need for food and animal protein. That is why I think that with a sense of urgency and eagerness you can look at opportunities to produce safe, affordable and tasty food that has a much smaller footprint. I also believe that there is an opportunity here in terms of innovation that we should take advantage of. Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the sustainability of our food system is necessary to reduce the impact on scarce soil, water, raw materials and energy;]] [[Whereas the further development of nutritious, safe, tasty and affordable alternatives to animal meat contributes to the necessary sustainability;]] [[Whereas it is therefore necessary to encourage science and industry to speed this up;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the innovation, development and production of these alternatives to meat and to present to the Court the measures and instruments which may be used to achieve this;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-238]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about fetal calf serum. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that foetal calf serum was the standard cell culture medium for a long time to grow cells that are the basis for farmed meat;]] [[Whereas foetal calf serum is obtained in a very dieron-friendly manner;]] [[Whereas there are developments which make it possible for foetal calf serum to be replaced by animal-friendly plant culture media;]] [[noting that there are no rules on the use of foetal calf serum or animal-friendly alternatives to the development and production of farmed meat;]] [[calls on the Government to prohibit the use of foetal calf serum or other animal cell culture sera for the development and production of farmed meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-239]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u134	I am somewhat surprised at this motion. There's already going to be a ban on something that's still in the research phase that can potentially save millions of animals, exactly what the Party represents for the Animals. Especially for D66 it is important that plant serum is used. But I can imagine that in all the experimental initial situations it might be necessary to do this. Now I ask the Party for Animals: if it is possible to save millions and hundreds of millions of animals over the years by using calf serum on a very limited scale in an experimental phase, what is your answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u135	On a very limited scale? We now hear in the debate that there are several companies that can do it for a long time, and then all these other companies must also discover the Holy Grail themselves? Then all these other dozens of farms will also have to slaughter ten calves for the production of 100 grams of meat, one hamburger? Get out of here, Mr. Great! Surely it is indigestible that all these businesses must seek that one answer themselves and that this is at the expense of hundreds, thousands of calves? If there are companies that can replace that calf serum with plant alternatives, we should patent it. It is indigestible for other companies to say: well, we will continue to use these calves, because we need to find the answer ourselves. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u136	I would ask you to address your speech to the President. Maybe that'll help a little bit in the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u137	I'm not leaving, and I'm not stopping, because I work here. But I would like to say that I find it really disappointing that the Party for Animals has the potential of using it when it is necessary to find the Holy Grail... That will be the fastest and best in competition anyway. This reduces the chance for hundreds of millions of animals to live in dignity. It is a pity that even the Party for Animals makes this solution more difficult and thus raises the suspicion that there would rather not be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u139	...solutions are being discussed. That's a shame, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u140	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u141	What I find regrettable is that D66 apparently says: "Cooperation is all far too difficult, don't let those companies work together. Companies that found the answer? Don't let them share it with others. Let all those other businesses also drive thousands of unborn calves a needle in the heart for that fetal calf serum. Each company must find its own answer to the question of how to replace that calf serum with a plant-based alternative." Mr. Chairman. I would like to say to Mr De Groot: work together, see which company has already found that answer and how other companies can benefit from it, but not at the expense of thousands of animals. Because the answer has long been found and it is indigestible for every company to say: no, we are going to find the answer ourselves. Indigestible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u142	Thank you. You had a second motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u143	I have a second motion. It's about the protein transition in a broader sense. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet is pursuing a transition towards a different production and consumption of proteins;]] [[Whereas it may take years for farmed meat to be stored in the store;]] [[Whereas protein transition should already be progressed;]] [[noting that demand for meat substitutes is growing so rapidly that manufacturers are afraid of a shortage of vegetable raw materials;]] [[Whereas the promotion of the production of raw materials for plant protein for human consumption offers a sustainable future for Dutch agriculture;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce into the national protein strategy a plan of action to stimulate the production of plant proteins for human consumption and to include concrete objectives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-240]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u144	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u145	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. I give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u146	Mr President, there is no need to be afraid: I will address my speech to you. It is good to taste in this political arena at least what meat one has in the cockpit. The consensus turned out to be quite large. That was good to hear. The discussion does however focus on the use of foetal calf serum. I have actually heard the Minister say that she wants to see if there is any possibility of imposing restrictions on the production and use of foetal calf serum. I would like to support the motion by GroenLinks and the Animal Party, but if we already have a commitment, that motion has become superfluous. I hope the Minister can confirm that that commitment can be made. Finally. Chicken meat offers opportunities. Let us remove the restrictions and at least exploit the potential. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u147	Thank you. Mr Madlener does not use his second term. Do you? Yes. Then I give the floor to Mr Madlener of the PVV for his second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u148	Mr. Chairman. I didn't really want to take advantage of my second term, but I hear the CDA say again: let's remove restrictions. I am pleased that the Minister is sticking to the strict requirements in the area of food innovation. I would like to say that on behalf of all the consumers here. Not all consumers are waiting for this too. There's already some kind of pressure to influence everything. You can't eat meat anymore. My group believes that eating meat is a very healthy thing and that animals should be kept well and killed in an animal-friendly way, but there is nothing wrong with eating meat. We don't want any interference in our menu. We've been eating meat for thousands of years. That's very natural. Chicken meat is something unnatural. That's why I'm glad there are strict demands. I do not think there should be any blackmail with those strict demands. I'm glad the Minister doesn't intend to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u149	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u150	I think we can find each other on the following points. Food safety is a top priority. The nutritional value must be good. It's a sustainable solution. It's not a replacement, but it's a supplement. A transparent production process is important. We don't want calf serum, growth hormones and GMOs. There must be no such thing, and that is also a condition. So that's important. Knowing this, I'll come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that innovations such as farmed meat can contribute to solving global food supply challenges;]] [[whereas Dutch companies and knowledge institutions currently have a leading position when it comes to the development of farmed meat, but this position is under pressure due to the waiting attitude of the government and laws and regulations that prevent further innovation;]] [[Whereas it is now possible to produce farmed meat without the use of foetal calf serum;]] [[calls on the Government to show greater ambition and direction on the farm meat dossier by exploring, in consultation with the sector, the necessary legislative and regulatory adjustments to stimulate the breeding meat innovation and by drawing up an action agenda aimed at achieving a breakthrough of farmed meat as novel food and sending it to the Chamber before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Weverling, Mr De Groot, Mr Moorlag, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31532-241]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u151	I would ask Members to take their place again. The Minister is ready to give her appreciation of the motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion-De Groot/Weverling in part No. 237 asks for experimental space for farmed meat. Then I'll come back to the discussion of experimental space. I am not going to deviate from the rules we have laid down in the novel food directive. It is clear that it is allowed if you try certain things in a controlled setting in terms of taste, but here it really sees a contribution to the market introduction. This implies a larger taste test, and that is not possible under that directive. For that, you have to go through the procedure first, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u153	The motion in part No. 237 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u154	Then the Moorlag motion in part No. 238. Actually, we've been doing a lot of things. I'm going to mention it: the Early Phase Financing, Seed Capital, at NWO you can apply for fundamental research, the top sectors, RVO also helps you if you have questions about what you can do to introduce business or where all the regulations that can be invoked are in place, SBIR. Actually, it's just a support of my policy. Then I'll have to dissuade the motion, because we're already doing it. It's something that's already running.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u155	That actually indicates that the motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u156	Needless to say, it is indeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u157	That also discourages the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u158	For example, you can talk down any request from the Chamber to stimulate something by saying: we have a whole toolbox full of instruments. Which of these instruments is suitable for this purpose? For all those entrepreneurs, that's not clear. It's a question to visualize. It takes me a great deal of agility to begin by recognising that this motion is policy support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u159	I think I just mentioned the possibilities that exist. Through RVO, it will also be announced what arrangements are in place. You can contact RVO if you have questions about which arrangement suits your company well or what arrangement you need or something like that. I admit that sometimes there are things that we do not encourage or support, but here I really wouldn't like to say that we do, so I would advise against this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 239. I myself indicated that I would like us to use the plant alternative because there is. I need to take it very formally now. If you go through the novel food directive, this is not a requirement, because it is not about food safety but about animal welfare. If we go through this procedure, this is not a criterion for weighing. This should be achieved in a different way within Europe in terms of animal welfare. I have said that I would like to see exactly where that is and what that would mean, but that requires just a little more insight than I have so far. I understand what this motion is saying, but as it stands, it is too sharp and I cannot comply with it. For example, if there's any calf serum coming from abroad, I don't have all the possibilities to do something about it. But I have promised that if we have allowed this product to enter the market, I will see what we can do not to use it for that purpose. So I have to discourage the motion, but I'm going to fulfill my commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u160	The Wassenberg/Brome motion in part No. 639 is not recommended. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u161	I'll just keep these on. Then it would be nice if we were to be informed by the Minister about progress, but also to see how this could be extended in Europe. Perhaps this also plays a European role, because there are more countries where farmed meat is being developed. Perhaps it can also be brought to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u162	Just give me a minute to map that out. Here I really need to go through the search: where exactly am I supposed to be? Plus, the procedure for applying for the farmed meat has yet to be completed. But I got the room right. I am not opposed to the Chamber, because I also think that, if you have alternatives that could make things different, you should apply them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u163	I get it. The motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u164	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u165	At the request of Mr Wassenberg, I propose his motion (31532), No. 239). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u166	Well, Mr. Chairman. That's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u167	Pretty much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u168	Should we just have this debate again in a year's time and then see where we stand? Mr President, if I have any information on this matter. I find it difficult to estimate that now. But again, this is not something I'm facing the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u169	Mr Wassenberg thinks that is a sufficient commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u170	Then there is the motion on the national protein strategy and the specific objectives. We are already working on a national protein strategy, but Mr Wassenberg already wants to anticipate it by asking for specific targets to be set. I just had a little debate with him about that. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u171	The motion in part No. 240 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u172	Yes. The motion in part No. 241 actually asks for two things. The request is on the one hand to see where the obstacles are. I'm always willing to start the conversations. I think I am speaking a little bit for my colleague, Mr Bruins, because of course he is really looking at what is going on in relation to the novel food directive. That directive is the law and regulation that applies to it, and it must simply be passed. In that respect, I am not going to make any concessions, but I am fine with discussing them. The motion also calls for an action agenda aimed at achieving a breakthrough in farmed meat. I think that's a little premature. We just have to go through that admission procedure first. Let us first take steps on that and see how far that is going to go, because that determines whether there will be any action at all after that. If the motion calls for further talks with the parties, then that is absolutely fine. By the way, we have never received the signal that obstructive matters play a role. This was just a quick check. I asked, but we don't know that. If there are, then it is fine to discuss it, but this motion goes a little too far in that, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u173	The motion in part No. 241 is not recommended. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u174	I notice we have an evening of missed opportunities. Unfortunately, five motions are dissuaded, so we reason in a vicious circle. I am really curious what the attitude of the Minister and the Ministry will be when the motions are adopted. We'll just wait and see what happens Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u175	Thank you. I do not hear a question in that, but I would also like to give the Minister a chance to say something in conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u176	We don't have a new name yet. Mr Weverling would accept that, but I have not yet heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u177	I'm gonna take a look at Mr. Weverling, but I don't think it's gonna be there tonight. That's what we're... Oh! Look. Maybe a surprise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u178	I'd say let's write a contest. 'Fleesie without beessie' was good and 'grow meat' is very good, but the agenda for action that is being drawn up can, I think, also include a name. So just embrace that motion, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u179	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-30-tweedekamer-10.u180	Voting on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament. I thank the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
