ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u1	We shall now proceed with the debate on the internal affairs budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u2	We had come to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also our congratulations, and you must think: even if it is a crown year; it is only a number. Health and fine work are more important than a number. Mr. Chairman. This budget is also devoted to the pitiful financial position of the municipalities. It has a long history. Looking back, I have to say that 50PLUS has always been opposed to the decentralisation that took place in 2015. The reason for this was that we felt that too little had been done to look at the negative experiences of the decentralisation which took place in 1995 with the Disability Act and the first WMO ten years later. The citizens do not see any improvements in quality. There's a bunch of waiting lists coming up at the D.A.'s office. Profit-taking providers in home care are walking in. All this leads to a deterioration in the position of the citizens. It is not about whether we are right, it is about helping the citizens. How is that the best thing to happen? The patronage compliment is no longer there. There are fewer people in debt relief. Sports facilities are getting in the way. Club and community homes have been cut down because, although they were originally in the law, they have been used to compensate for the rising burdens caused by the Wmo. When I look at the municipal finances, I have to say that the scaling-up discount has been used as an instrument in itself, but one could say that it has been abused. Now my first question to the Minister in that context is: what is the situation? The situation is that the two-year scaling-up discount does not take place, but is frozen at the same time through the accres. And when I look at the overview that Minister Hoekstra has sent, I do not yet fully understand what the negotiations on the new coalition are about. I would like clarity, because we still see cuts coming back in that overview. If that is the case, we shall be tabling a motion on this in the second term, because we believe that the next cabinet should be based on a real one where two things are important to us, namely that investment is not only made in the quality of public administration, but also in good relations in the financing of co-governments. We are still waiting for real measures to be taken. A report has been published, but what can be expected of improving financial relations between the two governments? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to pay attention to the Secretary of State, from his very special position, although it is so special that it may not be a coordinating director of digitalisation. But there are more in the cabinet, and that equals why there is a problem. Now the Chamber has adopted a motion that should be one coordinating ruler next time, but at the same time you see that society is further digitizing. It's up to both regiments. Others also mentioned it: government services are increasingly taking place by digital means. And in the corona time we have seen that this only increases more; town halls close, only accessible digitally or by phone. And behind that phone are people from a call center, who, if I may put it as kindly as I do, know nothing about horns and blows. Because it says on the paper that you get a telephone number from the municipality, but that is not meant to get answers to questions; that is to deposit your question and then hope that someone has an answer somewhere. We call for particular attention to be paid to include all people in society. And these are not only elderly people who have not grown up with digitalisation, but they are also others who are less skilled, whether they are low-literate or otherwise have a problem with coming. And those problems can soon arise. That's what you see with the corona app: if you don't have an iPhone 6 because you haven't joined the latest iPhone yet, you can't even download the app. That means that with something we introduce out of safety, we lose sight of an entire group. But the problems also arise, I think, and I am particularly addressing them to the Secretary of State because we have some coordinating directors but also many supervisors who are all involved in digitisation. At the round table we had with the Temporary Committee on Digital Future, there was a range of supervisors ranging from the Council of State to the General Court. I had never seen so many authorities together: the Authority for Financial Markets, the Personal Data Authority, the Consumer & Market Authority, the Justice and Security Inspectorate, the Telecom Agency, and then I am far from complete. One thing was clear: that these organisations do not consult each other. They're all looking at part of it. Some think they're the authority to look at the algorithms, while they don't share that with the others. So, in our view, there is an urgent need for structured consultation between all these supervisors in order to have a clear picture. One example: it was also mentioned that the telephony agency saw a great vulnerability in the system with which we are all banking online, but that was not known, either by DNB or by the Authority for the Financial Market. That is not possible, in our view. So please prepare the arrival of the next coordinating director, with a good platform in that regard. Mr. Chairman. This afternoon, we're also talking about the Tickets Act. It is very important that vulnerable people have access, but also that everyone has access, because that is a constitutional right and we need to regulate it as best we can. This may also mean that we should have a day-to-day spread. It may also mean spreading over the day, via nudging, with some hours that are especially for the elderly, and then not between 7.00 a.m. and 08.00 a.m. It's a misunderstanding that a lot of older people get up early. It is time for workers to get up early, but this does not necessarily apply to the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, I'm using the firm principle that you congratulate a year on the birthday itself, but if all colleagues congratulate you at the beginning of their speech and I don't, it's like I don't wish you luck on your birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yeah, we don't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u7	So I break my own principle and I congratulate you on your birthday. I also wish you luck with the fact that you will soon be a young doctor, doctor honoris causa. Beautiful, heartfelt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u9	Madam President. It is remarkable, however, that we, the House of Representatives, are still discussing the budget of the Interior in this Chamber. For example, the planned renovation of the Binnenhof still has something positive. That is about the only thing, because after the earlier delay, it is now a question of whether the effects of corona and corona measures can be adequately taken into account in the replacement building. A positive quickscan in June seemed to be conclusive, but on closer inspection a few questions still appear to be open. That's how we're gonna go to my senses with horns and bumps a little bit further. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether, after all that has passed, there is sufficient confidence, and whether he has the confidence that the direction of this project by the Rijksbouwbouwdienst will actually lead to the desired result in time and within the agreed budgets? You feel that there is an undertone of great doubt in this question. It's a huge job. One of the colleagues referred to it in a different way. The Rijksvastgoedbedrijf................................................................................................................................................................................................... I would appreciate an in-depth reflection by the Secretary of State. The SGP thanks the government for the answers about the redesign of the Old Hall. I assume that the wishes of the House of Representatives will be carefully involved in the final draft, but I still have a question to be certain. The answer states that the preservation of the monumental value is a prerequisite. Is it true that not only is conservation intended, but that it is also provided with a more original arrangement of the Old Hall, which thus explicitly refers to the function of the hall before? I'd like a response. Then the financial position of the municipalities. That's a sad story. Many municipalities have been struggling for years to implement the decentralisations. This year, Corona recovered. The SGP considers it important that, in all these major concerns, municipalities should be able to carry out the full range of their tasks sufficiently, from their own responsibilities as other authorities, the government closest to the citizen. The spectacular increase in the youth care budget in many municipalities makes this very difficult. Aldermen seem to succumb to this. The social domain seems to have become an infected area, with all the consequences. What does this mean for the balanced development of the municipal administration? I would like the Minister's reflection on that. Now that we have a number of years of experience in decentralisation, the SGP also likes to hear the government's view on the status of municipalities as the closest government to the citizen. I therefore share, to a large extent, the concerns raised by Mr Van Raak's contribution. Can the municipalities now do what they have ever been set up to do and what they should still be equipped for? It was the intention, the idea, that the municipalities could support these decentralisations better than the provinces or the Empire, because they are closer to the citizens, but the opposite often seems to be the case. Municipalities are so close to the citizen that it may be more difficult to sell no. The idea of the Wmo and the Youth Act was that the municipality would first take the initiative with the citizen and only assist if it was necessary, but we often have the impression that the opposite is happening. Citizens' wishes are not always judged critically. What do these observations mean for the future? Should the municipalities better implement the philosophy of the laws and apply the philosophy behind the decentralisations, or is it the conclusion that this philosophy may have been too idealistic and that we should reconsider it and perhaps find a new relationship? I wonder what insights the Minister can share with us at the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u10	Now that the word "citizen" has fallen, I think this is a good time to interrupt. Mr Bishop has just interrupted me on the issue of civil panels. I have a motion before me on civilian panels asking the government to investigate it. That motion was also signed by your colleague Stoffer of the SGP. You just asked about the state law. Can you please tell me what this is like under state law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u11	That motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u12	She's hired, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u13	Yeah, it's nice, isn't it? That motion is asking for an investigation, isn't it? I continued the interruption because Mrs Özütok had a fairly clear vision, in the sense of: that is what needs to be done. Then my question is how she sees it as a Member of Parliament in the whole of the state-law system. So I think the interruption was in line with that motion. If there's been any further thought, I'd like to know. If that's a good form, I'm always willing to think about how you can let the government, the direction of the country stay politically anchored in society. Because that is the essence of democracy and in that sense I am always willing to think with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u14	That was the first part of the investigation that was requested. It is also clear: so that possible decision-making can take place in the cabinet formation. I'm assuming you don't want to throw public money over the head. So if there is such an extensive investigation, I cannot imagine that you would not intend to think positively about it. How's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u15	An investigation that corresponds to what is requested in the motion and that I would not want to think positively about the results of that investigation? Can't you imagine? I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u16	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u17	That's why you have that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u18	It's gonna be a word game now. The important thing is that you take the civil panels seriously and that you want to investigate them. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u19	Of course, but we shouldn't be pinning ourselves on civilian panels. If that is a good way to increase the participation of the electorate, of the citizen, in the administration, then I will welcome it with joy, and then we stand side by side, shoulder to shoulder. Only, if that is not the case and it is difficult to anchor in a well-balanced state order, you should not begin to do so. You shouldn't focus on that instrument, you should focus on the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u20	Then I suggest you proceed, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u21	Mr President, I will do my best. I would like to talk about the regional distribution of state employment. We appreciate the government's commitment to making it easier to understand exactly how it relates to each other between the provinces. The SGP wonders whether it would not be desirable to have a clearer measure of the distribution of state employment. Of course all kinds of historical factors play a role, but wouldn't it help if there were certain anchor points? How can it be justified, for example, that the share of state staff in the province of Zeeland is almost twice as small as that of the province of Flevoland, whereas these provinces have almost the same number of inhabitants? It is therefore right that Zeeland has been working on a replacement package for the cancellation of the arrival of the marines. The relationship between these provinces and the province of Groningen is quite different. I would like to hear the Secretary of State's reflection on that. Mr. Chairman. Then undermining. The cabinet is right to pay a great deal of attention to the fight against it. For example, it is important to work on knowledge sharing and innovation in this area. Special measures may be applied in cities in designated areas, but attention should also be paid to vulnerable areas. That is all the more necessary because the outside world has a lot to do with a few sequestered policies. Undermining in the outskirts, including the manufacture of drugs in vacant agricultural buildings, has to do with taxation, land-use planning, public order and so on. Our argument then is: let us, above all, deal with this in its entirety. How does the government ensure that the external area is adequately taken into account in the allocation of resources to tackle undermining? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the stolen Jewish real estate, a sensitive issue. In May of this year, the journalistic platform Pointer launched a large online project on Jewish real estate that was robbed by the occupying forces during the war. Much is now known about predatory art, but this part of our history, the real estate that has been robbed, is still in the shadows. It's all about compelling stories. Someone, for example, recently discovered that a family relationship was involved that a particular property was already transferred to the war criminal Pieter Menten on the day of the deportation of the owners. Those are intense observations. What exactly was the role of notaries, municipalities and government officials in such situations and what is the situation with any right holders? At the beginning of October it was announced that twenty municipalities will search their archives. The SGP would like this to be taken on a wider scale. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with the VNG and the research collective how to further facilitate this research from the government? For the sake of speaking time, I have one small point on the accessibility of websites. I thought one of my colleagues pointed that out as well. There's a lot of complaints about that. I would like to ask the Minister how this accessibility can be promoted, as the interest organisation Each asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u22	Thank you. There is a short question from Mr Azarkan. I understand you're greeted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u23	Sure. I think Mr Bosma is a huge fan of mine; of DENK in general, but of me in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u24	And you love him, too, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u25	Yeah, and the other way around. In any case, of his ability to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u26	It's nice to see that warm friendship emerging, and that and square public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u27	Yeah, me too. The Christmas feeling started early this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u28	Oh, this is so beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u29	That's right. Mr Bishop just spoke warm words about Jewish predatory art. I think it is right that an investigation should be carried out. Twenty municipalities are now opening the archives for that. Now there has also been a committee that has advised to return looted art from the former colonies. Does Mr Bishop think that we should broaden that investigation, not just to Jewish property, but simply to what was robbed in the former colonies? If we can get that back, we have to give it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u30	I'm always willing to think about that, but I don't think you should link that with each other, because then two different target groups, objectives, will be mixed up. If it is right and if it is justified from a historical point of view, then I mean: the preservation of the gift to give back, I am always willing to look at it. But then you will also have to establish the property rights first, because it may also be that a deal has been made, not stolen but purchased. Manhattan was bought for some mirrors and beads from the Indians. You can't undo that. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u31	The discussion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u32	But I'm always very willing to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u33	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u34	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u35	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is indeed a joint action with my colleague Öztürk today. I will make two specific points in plenary and my colleague will do the rest. Mr. Chairman. DENK is founded to fight for equality, to fight for a country in which everyone can be themselves. We see a country in front of us where you can study with your identity, where you can get a house and find a job. We see a country in which Fatima can proudly wear her headscarf. We see a country in which Afinaz as a Dutchman of colour is not reduced to that colour only, but is seen as an individual with excellent qualities. And we're not that country yet. It hurts me a bit to say, but we are really making far too little progress under D66 Minister Ollongren. The Social and Cultural Planning Office shows that discrimination rates are at the same level as they were five years ago. And what does that say about policy? There has been too much muddying, too much racism has been left behind and discrimination has not been addressed sufficiently. We have shown too little urgency, too few plans that have really changed something, too little recognition, too little understanding. It wasn't until thousands of people were on the streets that there was room for a 20-minute conversation with our Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. We abandoned those people. Because your skin colour or origin still determines your chances of getting a job, an internship or a home. It even determines whether or not you are discriminated against by the IRS. One study after another shows this. We can fill this room with investigations that prove that. Mr. Chairman. That is unacceptable in 2020. We must fight the monster called 'institutional racism'. The only way to do that is to do something radically different. We can't change the system if we keep doing the same thing we did, with the same parties and the same way. Think differently! DENK therefore wants to reverse the burden of proof for discrimination. DENK wants to intervene at the front, as is already successfully done in England. Companies and organisations should be obliged to show what they are doing to combat inequality in front of them, in order to prevent inequality. DENK also wants a tough demand for companies and organisations to make policies against discrimination. The government takes the lead in that. We need quotas to ensure that government and industry are truly representative and inclusive. Mr. Chairman. We are right to spend millions because we feel that we have too few female professors! And we are also making a considerable effort to ensure that women are represented at the top. It's not gonna happen on its own. But what do we do for people with a migration background? It is time for a minister for inclusiveness and just more money for anti-discrimination, more effort. Only by thinking differently and taking radical measures will we get racism and discrimination out of the country. Mr. Chairman. There is a specific form that DENK calls attention to. We see that freedom of religion is under pressure in the Netherlands, and especially for Muslims. 90% of all anti-religious hate speech on the Internet is directed against Islam or Muslims. Hundreds of mosques have been victimized in recent years by threatening letters, pig heads on the doorstep, Islamophobia banners and yes, even a terrorist attack. 91% of Muslims have had a direct personal experience of Muslim hatred in investigations over the past five years. 74% indicate that Muslims have become less secure over the past five years. In short, it is an urgent problem. DENK is therefore presenting today an own-initiative paper to create a specific action plan against Muslim discrimination. With the same justified drive that the government is tackling anti-Semitism and homo-hate, DENK also wants a more specific plan against Muslim hatred. Mr. Chairman. In order to tackle hatred of Jews, additional money is rightly made available at the initiative of the VVD and the Christian Union, and funds are rightly available for the security of synagogues. But why not take the same action and urgency for almost one million Muslims that day in, day out, dealing with Muslim discrimination? Mr. Chairman. DENK today comes up with a plan, with money for the security of mosques, with a specific campaign against Muslim hatred, with improved reporting and reporting capabilities, with educational measures to create awareness against Muslim hatred, even with a national coordinator against Muslim discrimination, in analogy with anti-Semitism. Finally, Mr President, a point about eternal grave rest. Eternal tomb rest is extremely important for Islamic and Jewish Dutch. More and more Muslims choose to be buried in the Netherlands. However, this is often not so easy. We see that families who have to emigrate to other places in front of a cemetery are finding a place less and less easy. I've experienced myself that family of mine really had to push the corpse to find a place. That is incredibly difficult when you also have a very difficult situation in which you are mourning. Families sit with their hands in their hair. The current offer of Islamic cemeteries with eternal grave rest is not sufficiently available and often too expensive. Corona has made this problem more visible. We saw that the deceased had to be stored in the cooling of airports because they could not return to the country of origin. We saw next of kin looking painfully long to bury their loved ones religiously. Mr. Chairman. Dutch Muslims who choose to be buried in the Netherlands should have the possibility to do so according to their religious regulations, in accordance with our classical fundamental rights, freedom of religion. DENK therefore proposes to make municipalities mandatory to offer enough cemeteries with eternal grave rest. We shall table a motion for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u37	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u38	Mr. Chairman. Nearly all parties have congratulated you on your birthday. It can't be that we don't, so congratulations on your birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u40	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a fantastic...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u41	Mr Azarkan is very sorry because he forgot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u42	I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Azarkan, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u43	Oh, then it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u44	He had a very good dialogue with Mr Bosma, with which I had lunch over lunch. Today you see a piece of fraternity...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u45	For the Acts, did you have lunch with Mr Bosma?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u46	It's what you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u47	It's on the record. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u48	Yeah, others go by car, but sometimes there's lunch. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a fantastic Constitution. The Netherlands has a parliamentary democracy. That democracy is a great asset. We have to guard her and protect her. The House of Representatives is the patron of our democracy. But our democracy needs maintenance and sometimes even adjustment. Last year I tabled a motion to strengthen group support and thus democratic control. This was accepted. Later, together with D66, I tabled an amendment and a motion, and EUR 10 million was made available to strengthen group support. This will enable Members of Parliament to deal with more dossiers, more content and even more our democracy to be monitored and controlled. But it's still David against Goliath. While a member of parliament has to deal with a handful of staff, ministers have over 10,000 policy officials. As a result, the Chamber is always behind the facts. Last year a cabinet response to the report of the Remkes Committee appeared. A common thread is that many voters do not feel adequately represented. Especially in corona time, you often hear that. People have lost their grip. People feel that politicians are no longer there for them. People feel that there is no democracy. People feel like they're just making up their minds. That has also been the common thread of the thoughts of DENK: the voice of the disobedient must be heard again. The voice of the people who choose us, the people we do it for, must be heard here in this Parliament. In fact, this was one of the reasons why we founded DENK in 2015. From that moment on, fortunately, the voice of the unbelievers, the voice of the citizens, will be heard even better in our parliament, and that is good for our democracy. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a fantastic Constitution, which contains many freedoms and rights. They are part of a democratic rule of law. The law is often the only thing people can stick to. The law provides a firm foundation and certainty. But what is missing in the Netherlands is a constitutional court, a court that can review laws and regulations against the Constitution. In the Netherlands, we have the opposite, namely Article 120 of the Constitution, which provides that the judge cannot judge against the Constitution. Through this prohibition of scrutiny, the Constitution is, as it were, putting itself out of play. This Constitutional Court could also be a branch of the Supreme Court. I'd like a response from the Minister. In practice today, the Lower House, the Upper Chamber and the Council of State should be judged against the Constitution, but this is rarely the case in practice. Last week, in the Chamber, the Corona Wars Act was dealt with. The Constitution was hardly mentioned in that debate. That is why it is more likely to create a specialised court for this, as Germany and Poland, for example, have done. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the elected mayor. DENK's group has always been in favour of the directly elected mayor. In almost no country in the world, the mayor is not elected by the city council or the population. Why are we so hopelessly behind at this point? Why can't we choose our mayor ourselves? Is that a lack of trust in the citizen? For twenty years the example of Henk Westbroek as mayor of Utrecht has been mentioned. But if the citizens choose to do so, if the majority willingly and knowingly choose to do so, if a majority is in favour of it, then it must be the citizen who chooses it. It seems that this is particularly the concern of the establishment, not the citizen. Because the establishment would like to have its own people in that place. That's what we have to try to prevent. This is still happening in the closed back rooms of a so-called trust committee in 2020. It is the established order that keeps the queues closed here and does not want newcomers. The same applies to diversity in the wider sense. Why are there still so few people with a migration background who are drivers? This applies in particular to aldermen, delegates, ministers and secretaries of state. In the cabinet there is almost no one with a migration background, while in the Netherlands millions of people live with a migration background. You can't do that again in 2020, can you? Why does the Charter Diversity not apply to the administrators at municipal, provincial and national level? I'd like a response from the Minister. Can it declare the Charter Diversity applicable to the administrators at municipal, provincial and national level? If not, can it call on the political parties and the people who appoint such people to go for diversity and inclusiveness? I would like a reply from the Minister, because the Charter Diversity has been signed by almost all ministries and also the House of Representatives. Why can't we go through with that? Citizens' rights can also be strengthened in another way. It sometimes takes a lot of effort to get your own data registered with the municipality out of the water. The city has a lot of information about you, but you can't get it yourself. And if you ask for it, you're gonna have to pay a lot of money for it. Surely it can't be that you have to pay money to get your own information from your own community? It should be very simple for citizens to be able to obtain all information about their private affairs via DigiD. I'm asking the Minister to respond to that. Can it provide for a modernised right of access for citizens? In some municipalities you even have to put down amounts that people say: why, how? It should be free of charge. The group of DENK would like to see an overview of all about 380 municipalities. Can the Minister have the Minister find out about the right of inspection in the Dutch municipalities? Not only with the municipality, but also with the provinces and the government should the citizen get all the information about the citizen himself. There should preferably be uniform basic rules. They should at least include free and rapid access for each citizen to their own data. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Then the congregations. Since 2015, but also before, they have been given more and more national tasks. Decentralisation included the implementation of assistance, social support, the Wajong, social workshops and youth care. Those extra tasks didn't always bring the same amount of extra money. Is the Minister prepared to give more effect to the principle of "more tasks are more pressing"? In youth care, for example, the municipalities seem to have a structural shortage of money. In particular, the more complex cases are uneconomic for healthcare providers. Is the Minister prepared to use a different distribution key to increase funding for the complex cases of youth care? There are more and more bottlenecks in the social domain. I am also considering a motion to allocate more resources to the social domain. I saw an amendment from the SP. We will also take that into account in our deliberations. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the problem of the Roma. Two years ago, the Minister called on the municipalities to create more pitches for caravan residents, but now it appears that very little has come of this. Is the Minister prepared to appeal to the municipalities once again? I am also considering a motion on this point. The Roma also suffer from lawlessness and statelessness. Why do these people not get Dutch nationality after years of legal residence in the Netherlands? The Roma I have spoken to sometimes feel roughed up by agencies. They often do not know exactly what their rights are. They believe that their children are regularly wrongly taken away by the child care services. This often leads to years of procedures to get their children back. What can the Minister do together with the Minister of Justice to give these people greater legal certainty? Is the Minister prepared to do so, and now it is coming to recognize anti-ziganism as a serious failure and a form of institutional racism? Many people do not know what antiziganism is because it is not expressed in this Parliament. We are talking about anti-Semitism, and rightly so, but not anti-Ziganism. That is just racism and discrimination towards gypsies, Sinti and Roma. This has been the case for decades. On this point, too, I am considering a motion if the Minister does not come up with answers that we can help these people with. Mr. Chairman. I've got 20 seconds left. Can I use it for change?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u49	Thank you. You don't want to negotiate in 20 seconds, do you? I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u50	I really did not want to do it, Madam President, because my congratulations are sometimes wrong. But now that I've seen so many people go before me, I know I can't be wrong. For once, I dare say "happy." Local democracy is closest to the people. At the same time, local democracy is the step-child of public administration. Municipalities ring the bell saying that they are not strongholds. The four large municipalities recently did so and now the municipalities in North Brabant do so. The additional money that has now been released is far from enough to eliminate the 765 million deficit. The municipalities will therefore have to raise their taxes, and that is what people feel in their wallets. Local democracy deserves our attention and support. The municipality sees more and more tasks coming to it and the controlling task of the council becomes more complicated. And that while the problems are getting bigger and bigger. There are structurally too few homes to house their own inhabitants. There are structuralally insufficient resources for domestic aid, maintenance of quays and roads and youth care. And there are structurally too few enforcers to maintain order. The council members often do their job, while the tasks of the municipality become heavier and control becomes more important. Although most of the city council members are representatives of the people who do their work with heart and soul, they are certainly in larger municipalities..................................................................................................................................................... In order to strengthen the supervisory role of the city council, we are in favour of making council membership a full-time function, especially for municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. That will make the council members more able to control the college. I will table a motion to get this started, starting with municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. We have already argued for the spread of municipal elections rather than elections for all municipalities to be phased out in one day. Too often they are seen as a measuring bar for national elections. That does not do justice to the local issues. Interim municipal elections should also be possible, starting with a college. I shall also table a motion on that. And then the upcoming Lower House elections; an important moment to celebrate and confirm our democracy, especially in these times when temporary laws are blowing our heads off and parliament can be set aside. The temporary corona law, adopted yesterday in this Chamber, can be renewed without Parliament actually approving it. Let's stop putting ourselves out of business. This cabinet is on its last legs. In the Chambers, this cabinet no longer has a majority, nor does it have a majority in the polls. That is why it is extremely important now that these elections really go ahead. This afternoon there is an emergency meeting about another temporary law of this minister. I can't be there because of the equally important corona debate at the same time. That's why I'm telling you now. The explanatory statement states: "Although this is not the case at present, it cannot be ruled out that the measures relating to the coronavirus are such that there is no longer a proper way to ensure the electoral process. In this situation, a number of countries around us have done so earlier this year. I don't think it should come to that. If the Minister wishes to postpone the elections, I will strongly oppose them. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution on this matter in the second term. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u51	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-14-tweedekamer-6.u52	Thursday, the Minister and the Secretary of State will answer. For now, I thank them for their presence. After the suspension we vote first and then the debate on corona begins.
