ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u1	At present the issue is the consideration of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Tax Plan 2021 in part No. 35659. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration to the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u2	I give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Last week we had a major debate with this Secretary of State on a whole series of legislative proposals, including the Tax Plan 2021. In doing so, we have discussed in detail the usefulness, necessity, opportunity, efficiency and effectiveness of the BIK, the large subsidy introduced by the Cabinet for investment and relief for business for the next two years. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has disputed all this. I have put forward in the debate that this PIK is not being tested on whether it contributes to the sustainable transition. That, too, is a major objection to my group. Mr. Chairman. That was last week. Tonight we are restricting the debate as far as my group is concerned to the novella that the Secretary of State has brought to the First Chamber. Now my group is of the opinion that novelles are usually presented by rulers in response to two incidents. One. There's been a technical error. It happens. Two. There is a commitment to the First Chamber in the context of the examination of a bill. In the end, this treatment led the cabinet to make a commitment in the political relations between the First Chamber and the Cabinet, which should then be given a place in the legal text. Mr. Chairman. As far as my group has been able to ascertain, we are dealing with a new figure tonight, namely a secretary of state, a cabinet, which does not really have its homework in order. A test must be requested on a part of the European Commission's legislative proposal, and the cabinet is going to take care of it by novelle. Mr President, all the alarm bells about orderly legislative processes, about feasibility and about the rule of law will of course come to light! I would ask the Secretary of State to reflect on that for once. What is actually happening here and is this really a sensible way to fix this one minute to twelve soon? Mr. Chairman. My second point is: what is the Secretary of State going to the European Commission for? That point also came along last week. It has also been exchanged in the Lower House, but I think it is a good thing that the Secretary of State explained this as well, because the Council of State also had comments on it. At least at first reading of the original bill, it was not clear why the Secretary of State is going to the European Commission with the BIK. Is it about the BIK as a totality or only about the fiscal unit? If I understand correctly, also the answers given by the Secretary of State last week in the debate here, the European Commission can actually give an opinion on the whole of the BIK, but it is about the fiscal unit. But the assessment is therefore about the entire facility, which the Secretary of State would suggest to me, if I have understood correctly, that the European Commission is likely to approve utility and necessity and the general line of this facility. This leads to a judgment, for which you really have to do your homework and what you have to wait for. In short, once again the question of what is the cabinet going to the European Commission for? Mr. Chairman. It also raises the question of "to the extent that I could check," which has not yet been raised in the parliamentary treatment of this novelle................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Given that capital is being treated equally, a foreign taxpayer might also be able to use it, something the cabinet absolutely does not want. Is there such a risk? Is that what you're looking at? Do we know that? Is the bill, is the BIK, also sustainable in that respect? Finally, Mr President. If the European Commission considers that the restriction on the use of the route of the tax unit is not permissible, the percentages in the legislative proposal will increase. Then the funds released will be thrown out of the window at once and given to entrepreneurs who did not count on it. That point has also been changed in the House of Representatives, but that is of course 100% deadweight loss. I don't know why I have to. It would be much more logical, I am also looking at the D66 Group, hopefully in this respect that if that saving is released and that part of the BIK is not spent on the basis of the opinion of the European Commission, that part will at least be used for the transition? Then we are not going to subsidise where there is no obvious incentive to do so. Mr. Chairman. The most important point in this debate is, as far as my group is concerned, that this should not be the case. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Secretary of State: that is what the First Chamber is right about and we are not going to do that anymore. If the European Commission's opinion is necessary to assess the sustainability of legislation, it should be done in good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u5	This route deserves no repetition and I would like to hear a commitment from the Secretary of State. Otherwise, I'll come forward with a motion in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. I call Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Secretary of State, for coming here. I said last week in the first term: there is a novella coming up and it could be that we need a reopening this week about how that will end, here and in the House of Representatives. I am not going to reopen the debate on whether or not the BIK is good, but I am going to talk about what has been chosen and, above all, about the crucial change for which we need to consult Brussels. Can we delete the tax unit or can we not? That's to prevent a foreign leak. That's how Ommzigt started it. Companies, shareholders abroad can't benefit from our grant, can they? Makes sense. And you can prevent that by banning a tax unit. The first question remains whether the Secretary of State has any information from Brussels. Does it still fit in with the single market that we make that distinction? But it also sees not only foreign shareholders. Dutch companies are no longer allowed to use a tax unit. Thus, if a company has its staff in one instance and could therefore apply the premium discount, it cannot be applied if it is derived from another subsidiary in which the companies are in the company's assets. So two bakers next to each other. One has a tax unit, so the machines are housed in one daughter and the staff in the other. It can no longer use the BIK. The neighbor is another baker, who has everything in one bv. If I understand correctly, that is the case. Then I'd like to ask the VVD how those bakers will find that. Are we not creating a new form of legal unequal treatment and is this not going to lead to new processes? Two. The Secretary of State confirmed that last week in the House of Representatives: just hold on to applying for the BIK grant until I know if that tax unit is allowed, otherwise you've done it for nothing. Well, that kind of confirms that it's all getting a little complicated. On the one hand, that is a bit cynical, because we wanted to have an opportunity to bring forward investment quickly. But now the Secretary of State says: do not ask too quickly! The question to him is how did he mean that? If my memory is correct, then I have four questions. First of all, there is unequal treatment of equal production companies in the Netherlands, one being in a fiscal unit and the other not being in a fiscal unit, leading to new legal procedures. Two. There is a windfall if that tax unit is not allowed, of two times 400 million; one third less use. But that's what those companies get later. They get, as the Secretary of State also said, a higher benefit, because the money has to run out, because that's what the VVD has brought in, 2 billion. So these companies will get a note: error of the tax authorities in your favor, you will receive more subsidies than you have requested. That's kind of weird. Third question. Mr Vendrik pointed out: that is, of course, 100% deadweight loss, because those companies had already applied for the earlier rate and then received a higher rate. I am pleased that the Secretary of State promised at my request last week: there will be a letter following the decision in Brussels and I will explain to you what Brussels wants and what conclusions there are. Of course, such a letter only makes sense if you want to think about what is now the best progress. Then I would say: are you open to using these two times 400 million differently, for other schemes, employers' contributions or whatever? Of course, such a letter does not make much sense if it is merely a repetition of what you already find. I hope you want to be open-minded and then choose the best progress to use those two times 400 million as much as possible for GDP growth, employee and employer benefits if necessary, but not to add deadweight loss to this dossier. I hope for a positive answer and an open mind. Otherwise, the Chamber may be able to see a motion from me in second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr Crone. Mrs Geerdink has the floor on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. A short contribution from my group to support the instrument of the Job-related Investment Discount. The BIK is an important crisis measure for the VVD, intended to stimulate investment and bring it forward in time. It is about investments in the Netherlands. The BIK is explicitly not intended for foreign investment, hence the novelle. The BIK has been notified to the European Commission, because there have been doubts as to whether the BIK provision is legally sustainable in connection with the corporate tax unit. That is a sensible step, even if it could have been taken a little earlier. The conditions for the BIK and the benefits of the BIK are clear to the largest group of entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs investing within a fiscal unit, where the reduction of payments takes place within the same fiscal unit, will obtain security on the IK as soon as the European Commission has provided clarity, expected 1 January 2021. The ICI shall not enter into force for these economic operators until 1 January 2021 at the time of approval by the European Commission. For all the other entrepreneurs, that clarity is already there. The Secretary of State has undertaken to communicate the results of the notification as soon as it is received and in any event at the end of January 2021 he shall inform the Parliament of the state of play at that time. Then there is clarity with regard to the BIK scheme with or without affiliation to the tax unit, and it will also be clear which corresponding percentages apply. They are simply contained in the reply. We hope, with the Secretary of State, that the European Commission will deal with this very quickly, and we understand that everything has been done to ensure that it is clear as soon as possible. Is this the most beautiful form of legislation? No. Does this help drive investment into an economic crisis? Yes. Last week we had an extensive exchange of views on this subject, at the General Financial Reviews and now again. Three times is a charm. Let us not waste any more time but make decisions so that entrepreneurs can make investments and trust that they can claim an investment-related reduction. Can I kill him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u10	If Mr. Vendrik agrees? Yes, Mr. Vendrik agrees. Finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u11	We are convinced that clear communication about the BIK helps entrepreneurs to convert investment plans into investment decisions in 2021 and 2022. State Secretary, how and when will entrepreneurs be informed about the BIK over the next two years? Finally, Mr President. The aim of the BIK is to stimulate investment by SMEs and large companies in the Netherlands. This is particularly important now that investments are lagging behind due to the corona crisis. Therefore, according to the VVD, the purpose justifies the means employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u12	Well, that's a big deal for the VVD, because last week, Mrs Geerdink, with all kinds of legislative proposals, has, to some extent rightly, called for great attention to orderality, feasibility and transparency: do we understand with each other, so cabinet and parliament, what we are doing here? But if she thinks that the end justifies the means, we could also say: this is once and for all never again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u13	I said what I said, namely that this is not a good form of legislation. I think I've said everything about that, too. Look, this is a crisis measure, and I think that's the distinction I'm judging. It is just as different from other measures, which have been in place for years. This is really for 2021 and 2022 and all the variables are in the legislation as I have read them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u14	Well, it's about 2.2 billion in tax euros that hardworking Dutch people have earned. Then you can expect from a rather handsome parliament, and also from a strong First Chamber, that it will closely monitor how we put that money back into use in the economy. Shouldn't we be jointly here, even as the First Chamber, quite apart from what we think exactly of that BIK because we can disagree about that, just make a point to the cabinet? Because this route is just not the way it should be. Does Mrs Geerdink agree with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u15	Thank you very much, Mrs Geerdink. Mrs Geerdink said what she said, namely that this is not the most beautiful form of legislation. And that's what Mrs Geerdink's gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u16	I have just argued that there is going to be a big difference, even in the Netherlands itself, between entrepreneurs. I call two bakers. One has a fiscal unit and can no longer deduct anything from its employers' contributions. The other one, who has everything in one p.g., does. Can you explain that to your constituents?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u17	I think we should wait and see what the European Commission is saying. In my view, everything is aimed at ensuring that businessmen in a tax unit can also make use of this. And then this distinction no longer applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u18	But then there's another one...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u19	Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u20	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. Then there is another foreign leak in the system, because in a tax unit you can no longer distinguish what the foreign shareholder is and what is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u21	Let us wait and see what the European Commission says. If the European Commission says 'this is the application of this scheme under these conditions', it will be implemented to enable entrepreneurs who want to invest and who bring out or are currently making use of these investments to make use of this scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u22	But Mrs. Geerdink can still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u23	Mr Crone, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Geerdink can't run behind Brussels, can she? We are making a proposal to Brussels. It's either a foreign leak, but then the Dutch bakers come together in a problem, or they don't close the leak. You have to choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u25	I don't think I should choose. I think I will wait until the European Commission has delivered its opinion. Then we'll talk more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mrs Geerdink. I call Mr Essers of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u27	Mr. Chairman. We live in uncertain times. This also applies to tax law, as the novelle before us once again shows. It is not enough for the government and a majority of the States-General to agree on a legislative proposal. Account will also have to be taken of the behavioural and, as in this case, the EU obligations that the Netherlands has. The EU impact should be considered in advance, as post-correction may lead to undesirable effects. That is why it is wise that the government should still present the BIK to the European Commission, albeit of course it is on the late side. In the present case, two EU law provisions play a role. The State aid provisions of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the provision on freedom of establishment, Article 49 of that Treaty. In the discussion of the novelle so far, these provisions are often mixed up. I noticed this in Mr Vendrik's contribution. First of all, the state aid procedure. Since the ICI is a new State aid scheme, it must be notified or notified to the European Commission anyway. The whole BIK scheme is assessed. Since it is also a generic crisis measure, we assume that the European Commission will approve it. If that is not the case unexpectedly, then the BIK cannot continue. Should the scheme nevertheless be introduced, the benefit enjoyed by the economic operators must be repaid. As has been said, this opportunity can be estimated as very low. Most of the time, the Commission lays down a number of additional conditions that we can meet, but in this case I do not expect them to. Then there is the procedure for any conflict with the freedom of establishment. Then it is about the assessment of that tax unit. That issue arises when a tax unit applies to the BIK. The fact that freedom of establishment is hampered by the exclusion of foreign companies from the tax unit is certain. After all, if one of the fiscal units of a company departs abroad, that company is no longer entitled to claim the BIK, because subsidiaries established abroad are not allowed to form part of a Dutch tax unit. The question is whether there is sufficient justification for this obstacle. This should be sought in the coherence of the BIK scheme. The BIK meeting is intended as a crisis measure to bring forward and stimulate domestic investment over time. In addition, it is not appropriate for investments abroad to receive a BIK. This is, in our view, a very pleasing position. It is therefore to be hoped and expected that the European Commission will adopt this position. In that case, thanks to the novelle, the BIK can also be applied by a tax unit. If that is not the case, then the present novelle ensures that the tax unit cannot use the BIK. But even if the European Commission says that the BIK can be applied by a tax unit and therefore foreign investment does not qualify for that BIK, there is no absolute certainty that the BIK will be completely excluded for foreign investment. After all, companies have the right to appeal and sue against it. In the end, the Court of Justice of the European Union will have to decide on this. Such a decision does not have absolute retroactive effect, but applies to the still open attacks. Even with novelle there is no absolute certainty that the BIK is only granted for Dutch investments. But, as we have said, it is unrealistic to think that that absolute certainty could now be obtained with a novelle. In any case, the novelle ensures that the chance is stopped that the fiscal unit can apply the BIK. Since we have the chance that this will succeed, without opening the gate to applying the IK to foreign investments, as very real estimates, we support this novelle. This is because it does the best possible justice to the interests of business wishing to make use of the fiscal unit under BIK as well as to EU law. We would ask the Secretary of State to state in his reply whether he shares our analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u28	Is that the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u30	Thank you. Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u31	Thank you to Mr Essers for his professorial contribution, because I can follow this very well. But maybe I'm a bad student, because I haven't heard your answer yet. I'm sure you've got cookies in your constituency, too. One baker has a tax unit. Nothing foreign, huh? O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O-O. They're both qualified, aren't they? Because I see a distinction, and a disadvantage for the tax unit in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u32	Yeah, I get your point. That is also the reason why we strive to include that fiscal unit in that BIK. But we must realise that those who opt for fiscal unity also opt for a different treatment. And if you don't opt for the tax unit, you don't have that tax unit treatment. Example, a company with losses: if you do not have a tax unit, then you can only offset those losses with your own profits; if you do have a tax unit, you can offset it with profits from another company. So if you're going to compare that, you're going to compare apples and pears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u33	No, they were cookies, not apples and pears. But I'm serious about this right now. In your constituency, it is these two bakers: side by side, both in the street, both difficult, both want to have a new oven accelerated. And one can do that with a grant from the BIK, for it has no fiscal unit, and the other doesn't. So to keep the foreigners out of it, you're taking the Dutch now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u34	Yeah, that's life. Look, the bet is to get the tax unit to qualify for the BIK, which solves your problem. By the way, people who do not opt for a fiscal unit should therefore experience the consequence. And if I think the odds are still low, either by the Commission or by the Court of Justice, "sorry, but if you take the fiscal unit, that means that I need to be provided on a foreign investment', then the consequence is that the novelle chooses to take out that tax unit. That is a pity, but we have done our best to achieve that result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u35	Mr Crone, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u36	Yes, Mr. Chairman, and I'm trying to finish with that, too. So I find that the CDA acknowledges that it is either a foreign leak or a Dutch leak; because then that Dutch tax unit will not get it, bad luck. And what are you doing with the $400 million that's left over?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u37	No, we don't choose a foreign leak; we're just trying to prevent that. With the approval of the Commission and, we hope, the approval of the Court of Justice, we are just trying to prevent that foreign leak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u38	No, I'm sorry, you can't be bothered. It is either a foreign leak, but then you also harm those Dutch bakers who have a tax unit. You can't just leave the country outside and you can't leave the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u39	Well, this is a little rhetorical. But if the Commission says yes to the proposal from the Netherlands, then we do not have a foreign leak and we simply have the treatment that we had in mind from companies that are in a tax unit. Those who aren't in there, they seem to have chosen that. And they can't choose that BIK optimally, they have to restructure their activities. There will be no inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u40	They must have had some bad luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u41	Well, they have to accept the consequences of their choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u42	Mr. Chairman. Does Mr Esser agree with me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u43	Mr. Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u44	Excuse me? Didn't the "s" come through?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u45	Three s's. The first two did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u46	Mr. Essers...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u47	I know what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u48	Does Mr Essers agree with me that such a route of such a novelle, just before the market closes, does not deserve a beauty prize?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u49	I don't think there's anyone who's gonna claim a beauty prize for this; it just isn't. Look, it started of course by linking the BIK and the Tax Plan. I didn't think that was happy either. If you believe in your arrangements, and I think there is every reason to believe in them, then you can also make a separate bill. We also supported the motion Sent. This really is such an example of doubt: does it fit into European law or not? There is a great deal of discussion about how this tax unit, with the exclusion of these foreign companies, can cope with this freedom of establishment. Well, you have arguments for it and you have arguments against it. You want to implement that arrangement as soon as possible; it is a crisis settlement. Well, then you get this result. Well, it's better half-way over the whole thing. We're still on time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u50	Does Mr Essers agree with me that this should remain a very big exception? And that, as the First Chamber, we must also send the message to the Cabinet: that is not how we are going to do this anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u51	Well, I find those harsh words. Look, this is a sincere arrangement, designed to deal with the corona crisis somewhat, to bring forward investment and, if possible, to strengthen, strengthen, stimulate it. We have seen that there are all kinds of complications due to this pressure of time, and we have to learn from that. I hope that we will never again face this kind of crisis, and I don't think we will. We must take this European test seriously every time: in case of doubt, do not catch up. I'm glad they're not catching up now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u52	Mr Vendrik, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u53	It was a sincere question, which I did not ask for nothing, just here in the First Chamber, and certainly also to Mr Essers, a bit of the fiscal conscience of this house. Here in the First Chamber, we are just a little bit more careful than on the other side of things like feasibility, transparency, understanding what we are doing with each other, the question of whether Europe agrees and the fact that there is still a certain orderality in the fiscal legislative process. And that the political opportunity of things is not always decisive. Would it not be wise in this debate, especially in this debate, to send that message?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u54	Finally, Mr Essers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u55	I fully agree with Mr Vendrik. I think we did. Last week we discussed extensively, also about the IJK, for it is a disinvestment scheme, and about the point that it may have been too liberal as it has been looked at so far. Well, that's being repaired. We have also discussed this European aspect. That was also put forward by the NOB. I think that as a Chamber we really did our best, the First Chamber but also the Second Chamber, to get this arrangement as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u56	Thank you. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Will the Secretary of State be able to answer directly? The belt's being tapped. I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u57	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u58	Mr. Chairman. It is very nice that the Chamber wants to take this novel so quickly. The novelle ensures that the tax unit is removed from the BIK. This will allow the BIK to enter into force on 1 January 2021, without the possible conflict with EU law. I think it has just been well explained by Mr Essers. In the meantime, I have notified the European Commission and I hope that it will clarify whether this is in line with EU law. If the Commission takes a positive decision on this, the novelle provides for the possibility that I will be able to regulate the connection retroactively until 1 January. If the judgment is negative, this connection cannot be included, and then there will be budgetary space that we use to increase the percentages. The material aspect of this change is regulated in the novelle. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of questions. Mr Vendrik asked: is this the most beautiful form of legislation? He thought we shouldn't do this anymore. I do believe that we should stop doing this, but I also believe that we are in very special circumstances. Mr Essers said that very clearly. All this has been hasty in a sense. I'm totally aware of that. The notification was made after I became increasingly aware that this tax unit could be a problem. I could have taken the tax unit all the way out of it, but then the BIK would have been less effective. As Mr Crone rightly says, the tax unit has advantages and is widely used in the Netherlands. This is the choice we made. If Mr Vendrik wants to hear from me that, if we have the time and under normal circumstances, we should not do so for a number of things in this process, I agree with him. But this is a crisis instrument in a very special crisis, as we have seen today. It was asked, I was also thinking, by Mr Vendrik O'Brien, what exactly is this notification about? Maybe about the first point? I've been running, Mr. Chairman, and that's why I'm a little out of breath. Can you turn that thing off, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u59	I can take it off. Mr. Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u60	Now the Secretary of State can catch his breath.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u62	I've been in the Senate for over a year now. There are a few essentialia that you like to hold up as First Chamber. One of them we discussed last week, namely that we do not have such a reservoir of fiscal legislation to be smothered just before Christmas. Last year this was discussed in detail with the predecessor of this Secretary of State. None of that worked out. Now we're sitting here in the First Chamber trying to get through a huge piece of legislation in no time. We wouldn't do that anymore, but we did. This exacerbates the general point that we made last year with many groups and expressed in the direction of the cabinet. On this point, I want a firm commitment from the Secretary of State: we are not going to do this in the future. That's not how we do it. If we need Brussels for a good reason, we will do so in time. And if that doesn't work, we're not gonna push it through again at the end of the year. We really shouldn't do that anymore. I'd like to hear that from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u63	Unfortunately, the answer to this is perhaps nuanced. That is why I say more than Mr Vendrik is used to. I promised I'd write a letter about the whole Tax Plan trial. That's about cutting pieces and so on. To be honest, Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Vendrik that the cabinet, and at least I, is very aware of what it has done not only to the Chamber but also to the officials and so on. We have to try to prevent that. But I would add that we are in a crisis situation. That's one. Two. This is the specific point that has been made. During the treatment of the law, approximately at the beginning of the first week, the NOB's comment was discussed about the possible conflict of the fiscal unit. We went to college there and looked at it carefully. At some point, a few weeks ago, I said in the plenary session of the Tax Plan in the House of Representatives that it seemed good to me to make a statement. This novelle is ultimately the result of that decision and is, in my opinion, the best solution, given the circumstances, I thought Mr Essers said just now. We called it a surgical solution. You take one piece out, so the BIK can start on January 1, 2021. Then you can say that it might have been nicer to take the whole BIK, as the Council of State has also said, with a royal decision, but then we wouldn't have had a BIK on January 1st. The cabinet has therefore deliberately chosen this. Mr Vendrik is asking for a more punitive commitment. I just said it, but I'm gonna try it again in my own words. Mr Vendrik says: under normal circumstances it should be so that you take the European test directly. I agree with him. In this case, this could have been done a few weeks earlier, but that would not have made much difference to this problem. The problem actually arises because I do not have a statement from the European Commission before 1 January. If he wants to hear from me that under normal circumstances it is better to do so earlier in the process, that it is even desirable, that it is what he is looking for, then I can say that I agree with him. I think that is what Mr Essers just said. That has something to do with the crisis character of the BIK. I am opposed to the idea that this would lead to messy legislation. I think that this novel makes the legislation more secure in a way, because it excludes Dutch taxpayers' money from reaching a place where you do not want it to. You are also making sure that a course of action to the courts is actually impossible if the Commission makes the ruling that we think is desirable. I shall come back to that in greater detail later. That is the only point on which I did not entirely agree with Mr Essers. That would be the answer to the question of a more punitive verdict. I know he doesn't sound like punishment, but that's because I was trying to be nuanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u64	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u65	What exactly was this notification about? That's a really good question. That notification is about the whole BIK. I thought Mr Essers said the same thing. But the concrete reason, the point where the cabinet has doubts as to whether it is in line with EU law, is at the point of fiscal unity. Mr Essers made a watertight analysis of the two types of EU problems involved. On the one hand, there is state aid and on the other hand, there is primary EU law, namely freedom of establishment, fiscal unity. In case-law of the European Court of Justice, it has been held that, where an aid scheme is involved, the judge is no longer entitled to assess whether that aid is compatible with Treaty provisions which are directly applicable, I say to Mr Essers. In our opinion, if the Commission were to deliver a ruling that this IGK, including the fiscal unit, is permitted, the court would no longer be allowed to proceed. Mr Essers said that the BIK is never completely free of risks, but then the risk is sealed in our opinion. I am at one point away from Mr Essers. He asked if I agreed with him. The answer is yes, except on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u66	Is it not conceivable, then, that the Commission should say: on the issue of state aid, we do not see a problem and we believe that the arguments in the area of freedom of establishment put forward by the Netherlands are convincing? Those are two different points. So we have a tax unit, a BIK application, but we exclude foreign companies. Then why wouldn't a company be able to appeal it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u67	I will leave out all the details, but there is case law that in that case the Court of Justice no longer needs to examine the freedoms. I can't do that anymore. There are a number of examples of this. We are talking about a specific case in which the Commission states that this regulation is permissible and that fiscal unity is permitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u68	I'm gonna take a closer look at that. I'd find it undesirable. Freedom of establishment is, of course, a very strong right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u69	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u70	Surely this cannot depend on the opinion of the European Commission? That's just an opinion. It is up to the Court of Justice to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u71	I am happy to deliver the case law to Mr Essers. By the way, perhaps in abundance, I fully share Mr Essers' argument as to why it might be permitted under European law to use the fiscal unit here. The emphasis he places on fiscal coherence is probably indeed the kind of argument we will use. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked how likely the Secretary of State would be that the Commission would agree to this. I am on the same page as Mr Essers. It looks pretty good when it comes to state aid. The biggest doubts are about the fiscal unit. We think we have a good chance there, but we don't know that for sure. That's why we're noticing. Mr Crone gave an example of the baker. He asked, "Doesn't there exist unequal treatment? I can't be bothered, can I? I do not know if it has just been resolved by the discussion between Mr Essers and Mr Crone, but I will try again myself. Mr Crone is right that, as from 1 January, because the tax unit has been made a royal decision and has not yet been introduced, a difference arises between company A, which does have the fiscal units, and company B, which does not use them. Company B can use the BIK. Company A can do that, but not in the tax unit. A group cannot use the investment part and subtract the other part, the tax unit, through the payroll tax. It can't be. There will be clarity as soon as the Commission has given a ruling. If it is possible, the tax unit is allowed and then is not allowed. Or it can't be done, and then with retroactive effect I'll come back to that in a moment. The tax unit is coming out and the percentages are going up. I see there's inequality. An alternative was that we hadn't included the fiscal unit in the BIK, but then the inequality would always have been there. We are now leaving open the possibility of using the tax unit from the moment we know when the Commission will clarify it. When will that be? I have had a long debate on this in the House of Representatives. I myself hope that this will be as soon as possible and that we will be able to clarify it from the Commission in January. Which brings me to the percentages. What about the percentages? What does the cabinet propose? The cabinet has decided to introduce a job-related investment discount of two times 2 billion, and in principle to shape it with the tax unit. That was the plan, because it works best. In the unexpected event that this is not allowed and we hear in advance that this cannot be done, the cabinet will increase the rates retroactively. Two members of your Chamber, Mr Crone and Mr Vendrik, said: that is deadweight loss, isn't it? It is true that for that short period in January there will be a small deadweight loss, but that is a minimum amount. For the rest of the time, of course, there is no deadweight loss, because the percentages just go up. It's that simple. So, yeah, it's true. If we didn't do this, this would mean we got two different types of percentages for the BIK, without fiscal unit. I don't think that's desirable either. It is also very complicated in terms of implementation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u72	I have two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u73	I'll take the mask off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u74	Sorry. I brought my coat rack again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u75	Put it in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u76	Yeah, I think it's charming. So I have two questions. If the period is longer, because the Commission does not take a decision, then the deadweight loss will increase again. The second point. If you raise the rate, will this apply retroactively to those who have applied for it in the meantime, or will it not apply until new applications are made, for example for those who apply in July or whenever? Well, there's still a chance. If you apply in July, you know: the rate is now increased; now I'm in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u77	No, retroactive work means that applications made in January and not using the tax unit will receive a higher percentage. Mr Vendrik and Mr Crone are right. This creates a small deadweight loss, in the sense that an additional percentage is added, which entrepreneurs did not expect. If that's the question, that's right. We must all realise, moreover, that the RVO window will not open until 1 September. The receipts will be submitted at a certain time on September 1st and then there will be payment from the BIK. It's good to keep that in mind. Mr. Chairman. The letter still plays a role in this. It also plays a role in the question that Mr Vendrik and others had. At the end of the process with Brussels, I will send that letter. I said last week in the House of Representatives: if that is going to take much longer than January, it is wise for me to let both Chambers know about the situation at the end of January. Then all these discussions are gonna play. That brings me to Mrs Geerdink's last question on communication. I agree with her and I can just say yes to that. We will try to communicate this as clearly as possible from 1 January. There is one tricky thing in this, namely that the rates can be adjusted, but it is good: only up in the event that the tax unit could not continue. Mr. Chairman. That was my first-term response. I thought I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u78	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u79	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Secretary of State for the answers. In my second term, I will go into one point. That concerns the question of whether this is allowed, whether this is possible, whether this is a bit normal if the circumstances are exceptional enough or whether we are actually speaking with each other tonight: for this time because of corona, but in principle Cabinet and Chamber do not do so business with each other. That's what the next motion is about. The: Mr Vendrik and Mr Crone proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet requests the European Commission's opinion on the Job-related Investment Discount (BIK), part of the Tax Plan 2021 (35572), and suspends the entry into force of the IKK in so far as it concerns a set-off via the tax unit until the European Commission's approving opinion is available;]] [[considers that it is preferable in the context of the quality and feasibility of legislation that if tax proposals require an opinion from the European Commission, this should be done in good time and not lead to hasty adjustments in the form of a novelle at the end of parliamentary treatment;]] [[calls on the government to act in the future in accordance with this principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35659-B]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u80	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u81	I shall now give the floor to Mr Crone, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Labour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u82	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers and for the equestrian recognition that all this has not gone so smoothly and beautifully. I'm gonna be stuck with those cookies anyway. The notification and exclusion of the tax unit are intended to close the foreign leak, but when it happens, the Dutch also have bad luck with a tax unit. That's all in the game, says Mr. Essers. That's true, but I didn't mean to. The aim was to promote investment by everyone. So I really ask the CDA and the VVD which bakers they want to help and which not. I'd say all of them. If that tax unit is banned, there will be money left. Let us at least agree that we prefer to give that money to all entrepreneurs, so let us put those two times 400 million in, for example, a reduction in employers' contributions. I would therefore like to table a motion. Thank you for sending a letter to the cabinet. When that letter comes, I would like to have a serious discussion on these aspects, and not automatically want to hear what we are already hearing, namely: it just goes on. Then the VVD has its point: it remains money for the employers. I'm making a big concession: it wasn't my money, but I'm giving it all away. But in all seriousness, this two-time 400 million will remain on the employers' side, but will then be for employers' contributions. So I would like to make a motion on that point. The: Mr Crone and Mr Vendrik tabled the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government at a late stage, through a European notification, leaves uncertainty as to whether or not to allow a fiscal unit in the BIK;]] [[noting that, if the tax unit is rejected, the government intends to increase the rate;]] [[noting that it gives undertakings an unintended and unexpected advantage of 800 million;]] [[noting that this happens afterwards, and therefore cannot increase investment readiness anymore (dead weight loss);]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider this increase after the European Commission's decision has come into force and to report it to the Court in the promised letter informing it of the outcome of the notification,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35659-C]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What a nice ending of my second term... Third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u84	Thank you, Mr. Crone. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u85	I'm gonna wait for the second motion. I have the first one in front of me, so I can give a judgment on that, already reading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u86	On receipt of the second motion, will you be able to respond immediately, or would you like a suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u87	Yeah, I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u88	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u89	Mr. Chairman. In Mr Vendrik's motion I do not like one thing: 'hasty adjustments'. Sounds like the cabinet was deliberately screwing around. I'm just gonna say it at home. None of that is the case. But if I read the motion in such a way that, under normal circumstances, you would do this in a calmer way and would rather ask for the opinion of the European Commission, I cannot deny that I agree with that and that the cabinet therefore agrees with it. Then I can give this motion judgment chamber, but with this coloring. I do not know, and Mr Vendrik does not know what other disasters we are facing. It may well be that once again we have very fast legislation. But with this coloring, I can give the motion judgment chamber. I cannot do that with Mr Crone's second motion. I'll try to explain why. The motion is very similar to a motion that I rejected in the Lower House last week, by Mr Snels and Mr Nijboer. The motion is close to what the cabinet does, in the sense that the cabinet wishes to send a letter after the Commission's opinion has been reached. I said last week in the House of Representatives: it is of course open to the Chamber to drag me to the Chamber at the time that I have sent that letter. That will then be the House of Representatives and with me to discuss the use of the money released. The cabinet's proposal now in the novelle is that we do two things. We put the tax unit on KB and we say at the same time: if the tax unit cannot continue, then we will make a royal decision to increase the percentages. That's the cabinet's proposal. That's not consistent with this motion, so I have to discourage this motion. "Is the Secretary of State going to let us know after the Commission's opinion has arrived and isn't he suddenly going to hit KB which surprises us with a KB?" If that is Mr Crone's question, it is very similar, but it is not the same thing, I can simply answer: no, I will. I'll send a letter before we make the royal decision to raise the percentage. That is, I think, close to the intention of the motion, but this motion is simply not in line with the proposal made by the cabinet, so I must advise against it. A little bit of words, but I mean well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u90	Oh, let's get that mouth cap off first. I've always been a hard learner. I thank the Secretary of State for his gesture. I would like to see a little more thought given when we hear it from Brussels and have the arguments in a row. Does that charge have to go up automatically? You say that I will not do so until the Chambers have been able to consult me or vice versa. In that sense, I would like to reopen the debate. If you're gonna say, "I'm gonna keep finding what I'm finding right now," I get it. But I hope that you will think and say, It is not so wise: let me do something else. It's the question of an open mind at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u91	The cabinet will always think, and I certainly will. Mr Crone knows that. So I can promise him that we will always think about the whole world and this too. But I don't want to make it any clearer. I do not want to promise Mr Crone something I cannot promise him. The cabinet's proposal is to increase those percentages. In this form, I must discourage the motion. As far as Mr Essers is concerned, I have the case law I was referring to in relation to judgments and appeals to the courts. Maybe it's best if I just let that come to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u92	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u93	I think I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u94	Thank you, Secretary of State. Then I'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-14-eerstekamer-5.u95	I've come to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I propose to vote tomorrow after lunch on the bill and the motions tabled, in conjunction with the votes on the Tax Plan 2021. I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 15 December 2020 at 9 a.m.
