ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u1	We have arrived at the answer and assessment of the Minister's motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u2	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you also to this Chamber for the questions and comments, for the motions of course and for the three amendments. A number of questions have been asked. I will go through that very briefly. A question from Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on reciprocity in the investment agreement with China. It is indeed an investment agreement. A broad and comprehensive trade agreement, such as Vietnam, is not being negotiated. Agreements on access for NGOs, journalists, etc. are not yet part of the negotiations and are not part of the mandate. I referred to that by saying that I no longer knew how broad the mandate was. The EU-China Investment Treaty will contain a sustainability chapter containing agreements on the protection of labour rights, multilateral environmental conventions and OECD directives. In the chapters agreed in accordance with mandate, civil society has a role to play in monitoring compliance with commitments made. However, as I have already indicated, I indicated at the RBZ Trade that we really must first have firm agreements in the investment agreement before we can at all discuss a concept. So we're a long way from here. There is a question from GroenLinks about export credit insurance, in particular about the ecv for Mozambique. This transaction has been looked at very carefully. The transaction will do. That is the explanation of the still existing policy framework of the ECV, including as regards support for gas projects abroad. It has a number of advantages, but we are well aware of the potential risk and the potential disadvantages. The assessment looked in detail at the safety and imvo risks in the field of ecology and impacts for residents. The measures currently taken comply with the relevant international standards in this area, but are followed closely, including by the embassy. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen asks whether I agree that it should be broader than just economic interests for reasons of reciprocity in the investment agreement. I just said that the mandate had been set. A broad and comprehensive trade agreement as agreed with Vietnam, for example, is not being negotiated. I have just said how we want to regulate access for NGOs and others through the sustainability agreements. I've just given that further notice. A question from Mr Alkaya about strategic dependencies, based on the Segers/Heerma motion: do I share the view that research should not only cover the specific strategic sectors of care, food and energy, but also the full breadth of the economy and, for example, the technologies of the future? I said at the time that I would like to see where EZK and JenV stand with the investigation. The motion you are referring to, of course, provides for the start of the investigation. There are five sectors, including cyber, energy and defence equipment, arising from the motion of the Chamber. It's a complex matter. The research is still in full swing, and the results are shared. I do share the view that we should also look further, but I must first consult with the cabinet colleagues to see how we can shape that. But I'd say, let's wait and see what the initial findings are after it's started. It's not good to add a few things in the middle of the ride, but I think a broader view and look can be very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u4	Yes, I see you. Only if it is really very short, because I also want the Minister to carry out an assessment of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u5	Yes, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. It can be very brief, because I had asked the Minister whether she also felt that human rights and so on should be part of such investment agreements. And I actually heard her refer to it twice that this is not part of the mandate, but isn't it time to review that mandate again? 'Cause what do you think? I cannot imagine that you would agree that this was excluded from the mandate. Shouldn't we talk about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u6	I will come back to that separately. I can do that in writing. We need to see when that mandate has been established, because I honestly do not remember it; it has been going on for a while. We then look at the possibilities, so that I do not promise things that we cannot meet at all, as the mandate lies with the Commission. But human rights, in any case, we are very keen on that. So I'll share the search and come back to it in writing. Ms Van den Hul of the PvdA on the SDG test and gender; a survey on policy and legislation. Well, I note that the SDG test is indeed in the four key proposals from the Building Change study. They have been applied, perhaps briefly. You also referred to the Invest International and Source Tax Act. That's going to look at the effects in developing countries. The application of the SDG test remains a challenge. It is intertwined in the integrated balancing framework, which I referred to. It's getting more and more complex. Fixed guidelines for the answer of IAK questions in legal texts are still lacking. And then, of course, it is even more difficult if the basis is missing or partial; then, of course, testing is more difficult. As I said earlier, I think it needs to be improved, and I can also make a proposal to that effect, also towards a subsequent cabinet period for successive directors, because this is too important. Then the Animal Party, Mr De Raan, asked whether I could call a free trade agreement that would contribute to the improvement which the cabinet claims to pursue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u7	Mr Ván Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u8	Van Raan, excuse me. Bilateral EU trade agreements naturally put additional pressure on the implementation and compliance with sustainability agreements. More and more, I would say, especially since the adoption of the SDGs and the Paris Agreement, but also when it comes to international labour standards. I mentioned the trade agreement between the EU and Vietnam. Is it perfect? No, but I also said that a number of ILO conventions have just been ratified by Vietnam, under pressure and pending the conclusion and ratification of the Convention. So it could be a way to promote this. I think that the great battle is about following the work of the Chief Trade Enforcement Officer, who is really going to see whether all the sustainability provisions agreed in trade agreements are being complied with. Then we can follow up on that. And I already mentioned the new complaints mechanism. Another question from Mr Van Raan: whether China is in favour of a trade agreement with a dispute settlement mechanism other than that of the EU; is that a hard negotiating point for the Minister, yes or no? For the record, you know, it's an investment treaty, not a trade treaty. And it is true that China is committed to the old Investor-State Dispute Settlement system. Well, we certainly don't want that anymore, not the Netherlands or the EU. It is not an option for the EU. We're putting in a book, but that's also something that not everyone agrees with at the modern Investment Court System. We do not agree with the old-fashioned and obsolete ISDS agreements. However, there are still a lot of issues, including sustainability, where the EU and China are still far apart. So there is no negotiation yet. We remain committed to the agreements we have agreed with the EU, and we will not be put under pressure from China in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u9	I believe that this point has been discussed in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u10	Yeah, so it's okay to conclude this, as it's called. The question is then clear: is that then a breaking point for this minister to continue with that China journey?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u11	That's what you call closing down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u12	Well, a breaking point? I would first like to see the end result of the negotiations. It's not a starting point for us. So something that is not a starting point cannot become a breaking point in the logic of things either. It's not supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u13	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u14	Furthermore, the Animal Party has asked what has actually improved in China's situation during the negotiation process on the Convention. Well, then you ask a great deal of a treaty. Of course, we always see a treaty as an option for improvement in a wider context. It's not a one-on-one relationship. Moreover, the Investment Treaty has not yet been negotiated at all. It's still going on. So I can't say at all that anything has improved. Hope brings life, but not yet. Mr Van Raan has asked whether I can agree, perhaps through Secretary of State Vijlbrief or directly, to come up with a letter for the phasing out of fossil and to indicate a timetable for this. Well, confirmation with Secretary of State File Letter. He has undertaken to send this cabinet period another letter setting out scenarios to bring the ECV into line with the Paris Agreement. In doing so, the cabinet considers Mr Van Raan's request to have been accepted, because of course there is also a timetable. Mr Stoffer has asked whether I can indicate how good the trade relationship with Taiwan is. I gave you some figures. Taiwan is the fourth export destination of the Netherlands in Asia and we are Taiwan's second trading partner within the EU. Approximately 4.8 billion of goods and services were exported to Taiwan in 2018. We imported EUR 3.7 billion in goods and services from Taiwan. As you can guess, those are especially machines and electronics parts, so all high-tech. In 2019 we were the second largest foreign investor. Having said this, we do not see any need to further anchor this in another trade relationship, but I will return to your motion. Mr Van Haga said that no import duties would be paid below €150 and asked whether it would be possible to lower the threshold or examine a realistic threshold. I have already dealt with this in the written reply. It is the policy areas of the Ministries of Finance and EZK. This policy is based on European rules and is the same in all EU Member States. The levying of import duties on products below €150 does not outweigh the administrative burden involved. I also recommend that Mr Van Haga continue this debate with the Finance and Economic Ministers, because that is where the decision-making and implementation powers lie. Mr Voordewind asked what I can do when it comes to non-ODA in relation to Lesbos. He also asked about the 0.7% in which he talked about cleaning away the 900 million cash drawer. I quote him: "When the PvdA and GroenLinks sit at the table later, brush away the cash slide." If the economy takes precedence over the current estimate, then the ODA budget will grow, but the cash drawer is of course in the books and disappears not only because of economic growth. I shall now turn to the amendments and the motions for resolutions. First of all, I would like to refer to the amendment on item No. 6 by Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. I would advise against this amendment. I stand for the chosen distribution between the themes and the articles presented in the budget. The size of Article 3.1, with more than EUR 400 million, is sufficient within the possibilities now available. A shift would only put pressure elsewhere and that would not solve the problem. SRGR, of course, remains a very important subject and we are also doing a great deal about it. Then I have the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u15	The verdict was: dissuade. Very briefly, Mrs Van den Hul, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u16	But the budget is lower. So that's actually my question. The minister says there's enough money, but the budget is lower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u17	Yeah, but it's also a big budget. There is a lot of money, other resources and political support for this issue. It's very important. We do it on many fronts. We are also doing it through the activities of many UN organisations. We do it all kinds of ways. I think that the shift that is being sought when you look at reception in the region and migration cooperation... Something that is already very large is getting a little bigger, while we are taking real money away from other policy areas. That's not in the best interest. I am really in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u19	Then there is the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. I sympathise with the authors, but it is very difficult to deal with this amendment procedurally, because it lacks coverage. Of course, if there was cover, the amendment was not necessary. On that basis, I must advise against this. There's no cover, so it's not feasible. Moreover, the coverage at the point of the Tax Plan seems to be in breach of the government's budgetary rules. They are based on a separation between expenditure and tax revenue. I have here the last amendment of the three, the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Bouali, Mrs Kuik, Mr Voordewind and Mr Weverling. I leave this to the Court, but of course it depends on the nature and objectives of the activity, taking into account aspects of legality and efficiency. For example, if you look at the assessment criteria of legality and effectiveness, this does not mean that we have an organisation presorted in advance. We look at the most efficient and logical choice. Then it may well be that we come to a said organisation, but, of course, the key principle is always efficiency and legality. Then I'll move on to the motions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u20	I think it was... judgment room. Or didn't I understand that correctly? But you have a question about that, don't you, Mr. Weverling? You think it should be dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u21	Certainly not, Madam President. But that also answers my question, I understand, about Wings for Aid and so on, which I have addressed extensively. I also discussed in detail the good 2015 amendment by Mr Smaling of the SP and Mr Teeven of the VVD and so on, which is now embraced by the current coalition. They say, "Wings for Aid is for emergency aid."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yeah, among other things. There are a lot of emergency aid organisations, but as I have just said, Mr Weverling, I can very well imagine that we will be joining an organisation like Wings for Aid, but at these times, while respecting legality and efficiency, the cabinet is not already going to preside over one organisation in a motion. But it may well be that we come to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u23	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u24	Then I come to Mrs Van Weerdenburg's motions. The motion in part No. 12: Dissuade. The motion in part No. 13: Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u25	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u26	Well, I suppose you also have other matters on the agenda, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u27	Yeah, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u28	The motion in part No. 14: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 15: Judgement Room. I can give you a heads-up about post-Cotonou. The motion in part No. 16 by Mr Weverling on the European Court of Auditors: Court of Auditors opinion. The motion in part No. 17: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 18: Judgment Room, of course taking into account the reality check that we are going to explore the possibilities. But we are not alone at the helm of the WTO. Then I will move on to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen's Green Left motions. I understand the wish of his first motion, the motion in part No. 19. We all share the importance of an independent civil society, but if you describe the motion in this way, it is too clear, because it says: subsidies to civil society cannot be judged on the level of support for government policy. There are many NGOs that we choose precisely because they are relevant to the themes. Examples include SRGR or Ihbti community support. So the way it's written now, it can't. Perhaps you'd like to keep her or reformulate her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u29	I think we're trying to do the same thing, so if you help me and indicate what formulation you can live with, we'll change the motion in a minute. Because, of course, it is simply important that we do not cut down on NGOs and other civil society organisations, because they contradict and because they are critical. Contradiction is necessary for our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u30	Are we talking about the motion in part number? 19?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yeah, it's about the motion in part no. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u32	But that's just a speech-out. The Minister does not have to judge that at all. I wasn't paying attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u33	Very good. I don't either. Then the motion to part No. 20. Mr President, I am a little confused now. I've never dealt with a speech-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yeah, lately they've been very common, I've noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u35	Then let me ask you for your opinion, Madam President. Is the motion in part No. 20 is also a speech-exmotion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u36	No, that motion says "requests the government."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u37	Okay. I would advise against this motion, because customs are bound by the obligation of legal confidentiality. It would be in the throes of sharing declaration data and, of course, the adjustment of the customs system. It's not feasible. The motion in part No. Twenty-one, I'm telling you, too. At this stage, it is the responsibility of companies themselves to carry out the risk analysis in order to end contacts and contracts. We absolutely do not support companies when there are risks. They can look for new suppliers, but we do not instruct Dutch companies to withdraw. I shall now proceed to the motions by Mrs Kuik and Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u38	I'm a little surprised at your reaction to the motion in part No. 21. You just told me you didn't recommend it. The operative part is literally: calls on the government, through our postal network, to urgently draw attention to the OECD guidelines and to encourage Dutch clothing and textiles companies. So you're reading an operative part that's not in the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u39	No, I'm surprised too. The official team did not receive the printed motions on time either. That could be a problem. I have a printed version of the motion in front of me. He's asking the government to urge companies to point out... yes, of course it can. Of course, we can point people at something. That's what we're expecting. But it also says "incentive to leave if necessary." You can't do that again. We can point them out, but encouraging them to leave, if necessary, is still not the role of the government at this stage. We may be able to do that if there is a new policy on imvo. At present, on the basis of the frameworks, this goes beyond what is legally permitted. We can point them out, we can say that, we can advise, but it always remains the choice of the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u40	Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, then it is up to you to put the motion to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u41	Then the motion to part No. 22. I leave this to the judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 23 also gets judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 24. I'll take a look at the text as I've received it. The only problem lies in the word "strategy." They're asking for an Africa strategy to be set up. We do not yet need an additional Africa strategy for the next ten years. The Netherlands has been in different ways for decades with different cabinets on all themes in Africa. We have the policy agenda. Africa is not a country, as you know. All forms of development and underdevelopment occur. There is an EU-Africa strategy. I suggest we keep working hard on that. And other aspects are standing policy. If you take out the Africa strategy mission, we may be able to live with a modified motion. But on the basis of this text, I must discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u42	Mr. Chairman. Then my colleague will amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u43	Okay, well, then that motion will be changed. Minister, proceed with the motion in part No. 25
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u44	Thank you. I'm just gonna get the motions handed out, just to be safe. The motion in part No. 25 asks the government to investigate the relationship between Dutch embassies and multinationals. As the proposers know, the embassies operate on the basis of standing cabinet policy. Clear is the prevention of conflicts of interest and the fight against bribery, among other things. It is, of course, a core task of embassies to stand up for the interests of all Dutch companies, organisations and citizens, with all guarantees of integrity and means to act where necessary. The department reports through the annual report on internal integrity investigations. The department, therefore, the cabinet, sees no reason for such an investigation. On the basis of this weighting, I advise against this motion. Then there's the motion in part No. 26 of the Alkaya and Weverling Members. Three investigations are currently under way in this area. We would actually like to ask if you could continue this motion pending the completion of the investigations, and then see what else is needed, which will also provide additional information and elements of weighing. I hope this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u45	Do I recall the Minister saying we'd get a letter next week? When can we get more information about this? Because we don't want to hold the motion forever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u46	I understand that, but I need to check it out. We've exchanged so much today and a number of letters. I also seem to remember that this letter must come very quickly, but I have to double check it. Maybe I'll get a piece of paper from the officials. Then I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u47	Then, on that basis, we can hold the motion if there is enough progress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u48	I'm gonna put it aside. On the motion in part No. I give the same response from Mr Alkaya as Mrs Van den Hul received. We stand for the chosen division between themes and articles. So we stand for the budget. So I advise against this motion. Then I'll move on to D66. It's moving fast, I hope. The motion in part No. 17 I give judgment Chamber. I'm getting to the motion on part No. 18. It is of course up to the Ministry of OCW and that ends the funding in 2022. I'm going to ask OCW to give a further substantive opinion on this motion. If you could hold it until then, that would be very useful. The motion in part No. 19 I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 20 I'm judging Room. I've cut down a whole jungle here, I believe, with these papers. The motion in part No. Mrs van den Hul's 21 motion is a very important one: 'calls on the government to come up with an action plan'. I'm giving this motion judgment room. I admit that we are already doing a great deal, but I have also said that I think it is a very important priority. So if I may interpret the motion in such a way that there will not be another separate action plan, but a letter to the Chamber clarifying what we are all going to do or want to do and in what way with whom, then I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Then there is the motion for a resolution by Mr Van den Hul on part No. 22 on strengthening civil society organisations. It is indeed about the 25% target. As we have exchanged on the basis of the arguments I have given earlier, I advise against this motion. It's a direction, but we send for results, not organizations. The motion in part No. 23 is about the situation on Lesbos. So much has been said about it and a motion was adopted yesterday in the debate with Mrs Broekers-Knol. We made the promise. We are heading for the quickest possible takeover of the group of vulnerable people selected and designated by Greece. But JenV has a leading role in this. On the basis of the text of the motion as I read it now and of what the cabinet is already planning, I must advise against the motion. The motion in part No. 35 by Mr Bouali and Mr Van Raan, I give the Chamber's judgment. It is similar to an earlier motion of the Party for Animals. We also responded in writing in 2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u49	The motion in part No. 35 belonged to Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u50	Sorry. Excuse Mr Voordewind. Then the motion to part No. 36. I'm getting more trees, I see. The messenger's handing me more papers. They are two notes about the same thing, but it is an answer to Mr Alkaya; I shall come back to that in a moment. I'm at the motion in part No. 36 by Mr Voordewind and Mrs Kuik. This one I'm judging Room. Of course, in terms of efficiency and legality, it is true that we do not anticipate the choices of organisations. But I think it is important that we should be able to state politically that the government's commitment to child prostitution and exploitation remains natural. It fits in with a long tradition of government that we also take up these kinds of themes. In the motion in part No. 37 states: "Whereas China and the EU intend to conclude an investment treaty in the short term (...) invites the government (...) to make it clear that the Netherlands is against this treaty." This is one of those issues that I would like to say: I recognise the approach of the motion, but perhaps you would like to continue the motion, because we must first see how far the Commission is going. We are not responsible for a treaty that has not even been received and negotiated. This is a bit the same situation as with Mercosur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u51	Very briefly, Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u52	Just to prevent us from having to oppose it again at the end of the process, because there are all kinds of things in it that we don't like, you better stop it in advance. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u53	Okay. You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u54	Noted, but then I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 38 states that women often have a weaker position in international value chains and that strengthening their position is one of the spearheads. That's right. The motion calls on the government to ensure women's rights and gender equality even more firmly in the development of the policy of imvo. I think it is good that we have the debate next week. I interpret this motion in such a way that women's and girls' rights and gender equality issues must be well anchored. I agree with that. We must, of course, see how this can take shape in the implementation of the policy after the measures have been accepted. That is a matter of wording, so I will give this motion judgment Chamber with the appreciation I have given. Mr Stoffer asked for another billion to be released for the global approach to COVID-19 without cutting the ODA budget. The intention of this motion in part No. 39 I very much welcome. Unfortunately, it is not possible in this period of government. On that basis, I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 40 concerns the establishment of an investment agreement or agreement between the EU and Taiwan. We've talked about that before. I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 41 deals with the situation surrounding the Ethiopian Tigray region. The motion calls on the government to examine the adequacy of existing emergency funds. We can certainly do that. I'm giving this motion judgment room. I would also point out that I have already spoken with Ethiopia's Finance Minister. I have spoken about humanitarian access, about the need to protect people and to resume development cooperation as soon as possible. Minister Blok also spoke to his counterpart. I was at the motion in part no. 41 and I am looking for the motions on the items Nos. 42 and 43. The motion in part No. Forty-two by Mr Van Haga, I advise. From the motion in part No. I don't have a hard copy here. I'm gonna move on to the motion on part number. 44. He'll be judged Chamber. I'm looking for the motion in part no. 43. There she is. Thank you. We've talked about this before. This is particularly for the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. This is what EU legislation is for. I think it would be better to hold this motion, pending discussion with the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs. I believe I have dealt with all the motions with this. No? Is there another motion in part No. 45? I don't have one here on paper either. Here comes the messenger again with an A4's; it's a kind of Wings For Aid here. Thank you. The motion in part No. 45 is about supporting activist clubs. So I can also discourage them, because the intention is clear: we stand for the independence of Dutch civil society organisations. They are allowed to do so and have the right to do so. This is a sign of the rule of law that is the Netherlands, and of the power of independence of expression. We advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. I think you still need to answer a few questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u56	Yes. There's been a reference to a letter. It is produced for the cabinet by the CBS. The letter will come after Christmas, so in a few weeks. Ideally, the letter would come for Christmas, but I'd count on him coming after Christmas, considering the crowds. I also promised a letter on strategic dependencies. It might be finished in a month. For the record, we were talking about two letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u57	Okay. I see you standing, Mr. Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. Be very brief. The same applies to Mr Bouali and Mr Weverling. You can't say goodbye to the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u58	No, not at all. Not at all. Not at all. Not at all. In my second term, I asked some questions about vaccines and the pandemic. The Minister did not go into that at all. I would ask her to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u59	I'm looking at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u60	Could you remind me of the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u61	The questions were about the availability of vaccines. I asked you to explain what the Netherlands is doing right now for the fair distribution of vaccines. How many extra vaccines did we buy for that? Who are we gonna share it with and when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u62	The Netherlands has joined via COVAX. We have contributed to this. We participate on all fronts in international alliances where vaccines are purchased. And we support the WHO to achieve a fair distribution, so that indeed the most poor can get the vaccine. I share the concern that the rich countries can stand in front of the queue and be vaccinated there, while we are losing sight of the poorest countries. That is why we participate in all international alliances. The numbers are not yet visible. We pledged EUR 25 million at the previous international conference organised by President Von der Leyen of the EU. But we also support through bilateral development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u63	I have a more enlightening question for you, Mr President. I think that in the copying of the motion in part No. 28 the names of Mr Voordewind and Mr Amhaouch have fallen away as co-signators. I don't know how to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u64	Oh. Is that what happened with the copying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u65	Yeah, that happened in the context of saving the Amazon forest. I know that Mr Amhaouch and Mr Voordewind would like their name to be included in that motion. So something probably went wrong there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u66	I'm gonna go check it out. Their names aren't underneath it. So you want us to add those names?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u67	Yes. Can we do that? That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u68	Mrs. Kuik, may Mr. Amhaouch's name be included? Yes. Any other names? Mr Voordewind's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u69	I fear the same thing has happened with the motion in part No. 30, about diversity. We'll put it all on the covid debt. I tabled that motion with Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u70	Are we talking about the same colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u71	No, the one only with Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u72	Only Mr. Alkaya. But he wasn't on it. His name didn't fall away from copying, either. But we add the name with love. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u73	I'm looking at the Registry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u74	I had just mentioned Nagorno-Karabakh. Mr Van Helvert and I have tabled a motion to the Foreign Affairs budget. That motion was held because it was referred to this budget. I was wondering if the Minister could comment on that. The van Helvert/Voordewind motion held.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u75	I can't do that from this stage, because I haven't taken note of this motion, so I don't have any advice on that either. I don't know what the question is. Is this about emergency aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u76	Could you please come back to that in writing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u77	It was humanitarian aid towards Nagorno-Karabakh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u78	But the minister didn't get the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u79	I can get back to you very quickly. Of course, humanitarian aid is usually used in areas outside the OECD/DAC region. But we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u80	That's good. Mr Weverling, the microphone is now clean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u81	I would like to help the Minister with the amendment that we tabled as a coalition. I totally get what she's saying. This has to do with the conditions of legality, efficiency and so on. In 2015 there was a similar amendment, after which there was a lot of strangling with administrative judges and so on. Is it not right, for example, to send a letter before the votes, or something else? The point is that we also want to make it easier for you to stop talking about that amendment afterwards. I don't know how we're gonna fix it, but it'd be nice if we could clear it up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u82	Wasn't it judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u83	It was judgment room, but it was with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u84	But you're being a little difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u85	I'm being difficult, yeah. That's what I'm standing here for; let's leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u86	I think I can make it easier for Mr Weverling, because I have no problem with it. Mr Weverling is, of course, looking for a form of reassurance that the example of Wings for Aid will be looked at very seriously, with a certain expectation that it will fall within the framework. Well, I dare to reassure you, of course, with due regard for efficiency and legality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u87	And? Are you satisfied? Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u88	I have more comfort, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for external trade and development cooperation. I thank the Minister, I thank the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-02-tweedekamer-7.u90	We are going to vote on the motions tabled next week and we are going to vote on all the budgets sometime next week. For now, I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Thanks again.
