ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u1	Now let's move on to the General Financial Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance, in charge of taxation and the Tax Administration, Mr Vijlbrief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I sit down because my back is bothering me, not out of disrespect for the House of Representatives; I repeat that for the people who are watching. It is a great pleasure to be here today, in this role. Most of the tax intentions this cabinet has are in the Tax Plan package and everything that goes with it. You will receive at the beginning of next week, on October 5th to be precise, the details of the BIK and a proposal for the adjustment of the loss relief. So we're gonna be talking very extensively over these months about all the tax proposals. But I will go through a number of things with you, because you have asked questions about it. I will start with the short-term approach of the cabinet, and say something about tax delays. Then I would like to say something about the structural approach along three lines, namely greener, fairer and better. I end with the Job-related Investment Discount, better known as the BIK. So it's a couple of blocks in a row. As far as the short-term emergency package is concerned, we have decided to extend a number of existing fiscal measures until the end of the year. Mr Snels early in the first term: can you change that easily, if necessary? Yeah, that can be pretty easy. That is what we did at the beginning of the year with the policy decision, in other words with the things we set out in it. And if you have to change something in that, you can usually change it with a policy decision. This means that we are quite flexible in that area. The second point I wanted to make about the short term is that we are going to pursue the generous policy of postponing tax payments with a generous policy of reducing those debts. The cabinet had previously planned to start on 1 January and to give up 24 months, 2 years, for the phasing out. Following a debate here in the Chamber, which the Minister had, and following contacts we had with business organisations, we decided not to start until 1 July next year, and to give 36 months instead of 24 months. So that fits in with the image of a generous policy of agriculture. That is actually what I wanted to say about the short term. The emergency packages in the tax field bring me to my first real theme for the longer term, the further greening. It is clear that this is what we are doing in the field of taxation. There's an important bill in your room, the CO2 tax bill industry. This tax is aimed at securing the reduction target for industry, but you also know that there are now a lot of plans in the EU under the Green Deal. Of course it should not be, but if I could say it myself, I would say that this levy has been intelligently shaped. It has been designed in such a way that if the objectives in Europe become stricter, the levy becomes less strict and will bite less, so that the two together will bring us to the goal in the Climate Agreement for the Netherlands. So they're mutually reinforcing. In addition to the Tax Plan package, this year the proposal for a CO-minimum price for electricity generation in your Chamber is pending. Furthermore, in the First Chamber there is the bill for a flight tax. A few questions have been asked in this area. Continue packing for greening. Mr Snels said in the first term: that thing, the CO levy, does not actually raise any money in the books at all. That is true, because it is intended that companies should adapt to the objective of the directive, and it is a regulatory charge that the revenue from that charge may be zero. That's how it's designed. Briefly about the flight tax. The bill for this is therefore pending in the Upper House. During the discussion in the Lower House of this proposal on 11 March of this year I have a bit of a weird feeling, because that was just before the lockdown. Then I sent a note to the Chamber saying: if corona intervenes very deeply, perhaps we should consider looking at the starting date of the flight tax on 1 January 2021, i.e. 1 January of next year. That is, of course, still ahead of us and I have already said that we are going to take a decision on this in the autumn. I also promised in the House of Representatives, where it was adopted by a rather substantial majority, that I would investigate the effects of the cargo part of that flight tax. In my view, Mr Slootweg asked for this in the first term. That research is there, and that actually indicates that there is a risk that the effects of that freight tax on Maastricht airport in particular may be quite substantial. Those two things make me still have to consider whether 1 January 2021 is indeed the right date and whether this is the right composition of the flight tax. I'd like to do that, and I'll get back to the Chamber on that. It is complicated, because the bill is in its present form in the First Chamber and I continue in principle the treatment in its current form. That's the plan now, but you know I can let it go with a royal decision. So I have the room to run the date, but that is not the plan at the moment. I will come back to that in more detail, also because of the report on freight taxes. Mr Sneller asked how we could deal with the 4.5 billion fossil subsidies, as they have been mapped out. Mr Wassenberg also asked whether such arrangements could not be abolished. Just so we're clear, we don't have price subsidies for fuel in our country. We do have exemptions and reduced rates in those taxes on energy, but they mostly follow from the European Energy Taxation Directive. That is precisely why it is so important that, within the framework of the European Green Deal, proposals are made to bring this Energy Taxation Directive into line with the climate objectives. It is, in fact, a similar point as I had at the flight tax, because it was also mentioned in part of the Chamber: would it be much nicer to be able to charge excise duty on fuel? Yes, it is, but we all have to. It is a European rule and I still hope that Europe will move on this. I think this is what I wanted to say about greening. That's why I'm moving on to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u4	But there are still a few questions. The first is from Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u5	There is a lot of social debate about this crisis and how to get out of this crisis. Economists, the European Commission and central bankers - you can't make it up like that - all say, "Don't delay climate and environmental policy, but use this crisis to turn it into a sustainable economy." I understand that the Secretary of State is already thinking about postponing the flight tax, and that worries me. But my question is actually about the CO levy. Is it true that, because of the corona crisis, the industry will be given more dispensation rights and that the effect of this CO levy will be postponed as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u6	Moreover, I did not say that I am thinking about postponing the flight tax. I need to be very specific right now. I sent a note earlier, in which I said that you might have to think in the context of the corona crisis. That seems to me to be a very logical note about the date on which you let that thing go. That's what I'm doing right now. It hasn't been decided yet. As far as the CO levy is concerned, what Mr Snels says is correct; in the first few years we have been relatively generous with dispensation rights towards industry. That has something to do with the corona crisis. But it is not right that the objective should disappear from sight. The 2030 target, including the price path associated with it, is still in full swing. All we've done in the first few years is to be a little more generous with dispensation rights, to give the industry a little more time to adapt. That did not seem absurd to me in the context of where we are in the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u7	But my point is that all the experts say, "Don't do that." The sums of the PBL show that we are going to run the risk of that we often know in the Netherlands that we are not going to meet the objectives later. But there is even a relationship with the BIK. What do we want? We want companies to invest. What should the CO levy do? Get companies to invest. What do we do? Giving dispensation rights, so companies don't invest. That is ultimately an irrational decision. This is neither good for investment, nor good for business, nor good for meeting the climate objectives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u8	I do not agree with this interpretation of what we have done. In fact, Mr Snels knows very well that companies do not base their investment decisions on what is happening in the coming year. Those decisions are based on the long term. We are abandoning the long-term objective. That is exactly what all experts say: keep an eye on greening and so on. That is also why I am not saying at all at the flight tax: we are not going to do that yet. That's what I'm weighing up, like I just said. We're keeping that objective under constant review. This means that the investments remain in place. The only thing we're saying to companies is that we actually did the whole corona package. We understand that you're a little tight right now; we can now slow down with that. This does not change at all the investment decisions of companies in the field of the fight against CO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u9	Thank you for the answer from the Secretary of State. I want to be very precise about it and understand it. In the first instance, is it important for the First Chamber to adopt the law, with all the consequences for greening, but also for jobs and especially jobs in the region... Is the Secretary of State gonna make a decision after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u10	That is the current state of affairs. The state of play is that the current bill is in the Upper House. I said earlier that this fall I'm going to consider how to weigh the effects of the corona crisis. I also have reports on the effects of the freight tax. It can mean two things: either I go into the First Chamber with this bill and hear it from it, or I go back to the House of Representatives first to think about whether I need to change that. That's exactly the balance I'm making right now. But the proposal that is now before us is the proposal that lies with the Supreme Court. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u11	Thank you, at least that makes it even sharper for me. I would urge you to include in the consideration of regional effects, it is actually a national measure, but it falls elsewhere, because the substitution possibilities for jobs are really different around Schiphol Airport than around Maastricht Airport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u12	I heard Mr Slootweg. I believe that this has been discussed before during the debate on air tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you for responding to the 4.5 billion in fossil subsidies. I asked the following question. It's gonna take a while to get a picture of it first. There was some uncertainty about how much it is, but now we have that in view. Wouldn't it be good to keep it in view by giving it a permanent place in the Millions note so that we can follow it and we can also follow that it's being phased out? Because we fully share that objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u14	Maybe I can come back to that in the second term? I need to talk to the boss of the Millions Note, who's behind me. But this does not seem to me to be a bad idea in terms of transparency at all. Which brings me to honest, fairer business. I am going to say something about fair taxation, something about transparency and something about the tax governance code. I would also like to say a few words about the committee that Mr Sneller asked for, which still has to be set up, and about the transfer companies. This is a subject close to my heart. I am extremely pleased that my predecessor has set up the committee on the balanced taxation of multinationals, better known as Mr Bernard ter Haar, who has now achieved national fame as the Ter Haar Committee, because the committee has provided important input, including on this budget. The impression that, in the first term, what emerged on the side of the Chamber that companies would easily get rid of this cabinet is strange to me, given that we are structurally increasing 700 million in burden for multinationals in this budget. We'll do that on the basis of this report. We do not do that to bully multinationals, but we do so because we like to make the loss relief in the Netherlands fairer so that you cannot deduct infinitely 100% losses. That's what we do in the loss account. That letter of amendment is coming to you. Some sort of lower limit is being created in corporation tax, and I am very much in favour of that. The second measure we are taking is to combat international mismatch: the fact that you can deduct some costs in one country and that they are not taxed at all in another country. We are also going to do something about the so-called info-capping system, as it is called in the language of the thief of taxation. This brings us to 700 million interventions in the multinationals. I'm coming to see you, too. That's already been sent to your Chamber. I'm sorry about the liquidation and strike loss scheme. I would like to look at Mr Sneller, because he has played a special role in this with the legislative proposal. This is how we try to make the taxation of multinationals, large companies, fairer. I also announced in spring that I am considering introducing a withholding tax on dividend flows to low-tax jurisdictions, also known as tax havens. I'll come to you in the spring with a bill. In short, what the cabinet is doing there in terms of fairer taxation for businesses is not small. I want to say that again. This fits very well in the image in which you try to help the business community again: but pay a decent tax, please. Mr Snels asked for transparency: can we become transpanter over what multinationals pay each year and so on? That's in the same language I've just mentioned, the fiscal language, known as public country-by-country reporting. We already have country-by-country reporting where tax authorities exchange this kind of material among themselves. There is a discussion going on in Brussels about whether this should not become public. The Netherlands takes a positive stance on this; the Netherlands is for that. This debate is taking place today in Brussels. I also think it is good to do this at European level. It is wise not to do this on your own, because the question is whether it makes a lot of sense. That is the answer to Mr Snels' question on transparency. Then there was also a question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u15	There is one of Mr Mulder's now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u16	About doing it alone or not. Does that also apply to the flight tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Mulder takes the words out of my mouth. I have just said about the flight tax that I would have a great preference to apply excise duty on kerosene. That must indeed be done in Brussels. As long as that does not happen and flight is not taxed at all and all other forms of transport does, we will take a measure at national level, which is, by the way, very underserved, through the ticket tax. Which brings me to the tax...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u18	I have the impression that Mr. Snels still has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u19	Yeah, about transparency. In the first term, I asked that question through an interruption and through Mr Sneller to the Secretary of State. It is also about the Ter Haar Committee. I'm for country-by-country reporting, so we can make it public. But the Ter Haar committee had great difficulty getting data. Of course, that has something to do with Article 67 of the AWR, the obligation of confidentiality. Now we see it again with Tata: we don't really know. The Ter Haar committee says: now obliges large companies, multinationals, to also make commercial profits public. Then you have the tax profit, then you have the commercial profit and then you finally get a real view on how much tax these companies pay. I wonder whether the Secretary of State would like to take this proposal from the Ter Haar Committee to heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u20	I do not know whether there is much light between what I just mentioned, the public country-by-country reporting, so the country reporting that becomes public according to a certain format, and on the other hand what Mr Snels is now asking. I feel like if you do the first thing, you're gonna make it to the second. But I see Mr Snels shaking no, so I think there's still light in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u21	Yes, because otherwise the Ter Haar committee would have had no problem getting the data. This group of companies isn't that big. Which one would you like to take? The 25 of the AEX, or the multinationals? This is, of course, ultimately about sensitive data and leads to competitive information. And yet the Ter Haar Committee says: "Make it mandatory to make it transparent per company what the commercial profit is, what the tax profit is, so that you can really see per company, public and transparent for everyone, how much profit tax these companies pay. That really goes a step further than the proposal referred to by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'll check between the first and second term to see if that difference is really that big. I have a slightly different lecture from the public country-by-country reporting, and I have to say that in this case it really helps if you roll this out at European level, so to speak. Because you are not waiting for material about only Dutch multinationals. This, of course, plays a wider role. So let me see what exactly is the difference between what Ter Haar says and what you're advocating on the one hand, and my public country-by-country reporting on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u23	That's fine, Secretary of State. But let me give you an example. It is always investigative journalists who put on the agenda how much tax companies pay. My bill on the liquidation loss scheme and its support ultimately stem from the fact that Trouw showed that Shell does not pay any profit tax at all. We now have the example of Tata Steel. This often has nothing to do with the international approach to tax avoidance, but with the fact that we ourselves do not know how our own Dutch tax system works for large companies. I sometimes feel rather lonely to do something about it as a Member of Parliament with own-initiative proposals when you don't have the information. It is precisely this knowledge that we need to make more transparent. I think it's really crucial that we get that knowledge. And then I think the Secretary of State should do something about AWR, article 67. And I admit that's kind of a tough discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u24	I am not trying to avoid a difficult discussion, and Mr Snels does not have to be lonely, because I am with him and I am in favour of this. But let me see between the first and the second term what exactly is light between what I say and what he says. Which brings me to the tax governance code. In the Fiscal Policy Agenda 2019, the Cabinet stated that it would be desirable if the business community and the tax advisory sector together developed a tax governance code. An EC bundle has been created about it under the direction of Professor Hans Gribnau. This bundle is expected to be completed soon. Then we at the Ministry of Finance will try to develop a roadmap towards such a tax governance code. I think this includes the other Secretary of State. Let's call it a form of regulation that makes people behave properly. Mr Sneller asked if there were any more details about the committee that is going to investigate streamers. Some people already call this the Ter Haar II Committee, but I can assure you that I have not yet asked Mr Ter Haar. Maybe I will. In the previous debate I held with the Chamber on the Tax Collection Act, I said that I would like to set up such a committee. I will come to the Chamber as soon as possible with a task assignment and with the composition of that committee. I will strive for a balanced composition, because it would be nice if the business community itself were to participate in this. This offers additional support, as we have noticed at the Ter Haar I Committee. That brings me to "fairer for citizens." Is taxation fair to citizens? Mr Stoffer has asked a number of questions about this, and he has particularly drawn attention to the position of the single-earners. A package of measures was chosen in the coalition agreement. It was really intended that both groups, the single-earners and the two-earners, would progress about the same or would not progress. According to our information, this period of office has been quite successful. Mr Stoffer says: I would have liked that hole to be smaller. Now it is unfortunate that there will be a committee capacity. I'll go through committees, I realize. However, there is a committee capacity coming from the same debate at the request of Mr Omtzigt, who called for attention to be given to the position of the principle of carrying capacity in taxation. I said it would be a good idea to have that looked at. Perhaps, as I say to Mr Stoffer, I could ask that the same committee also map the position of a earner and show what we can do about it. I would add that, of course, there are more principles in the tax system than just carrying capacity. For example, there is also a desire to promote participation. So it's gonna come back in there. Which brings me to the headline: better. I'll start with the unequal tax treatment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u25	Perhaps it would be a good idea if I first gave Mr Nijboer the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u26	The Secretary of State rightly points out that we are doing quite a lot about tax avoidance. We're taking measures, and we're also raising money. I've thrown the cabinet in my face every time that I think it's such a perverse argument that if you take tax avoidance, you want to give it back by another way. I haven't actually heard the Secretary of State about that. I actually think that's rewarding bad behavior. If you first avoid tax, the cabinet takes good measures, but then it is said: yes, but then the rate has to go down, otherwise business will pay more tax. How does the Secretary of State view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u27	It is not a law of Meden and Persians that, to put it in technical terms, if you broaden the support, which must always come back to a reduction in the rate in that same domain. Let me give you an example of the fact that we have a burden increase of 700 million in this Tax Plan through the loss relief and arm's-length principle. This does not come back in the form of lower rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u28	No, I didn't. But that reasoning is the basis of the coalition agreement. That is why I am also asking this Secretary of State, because I am always curious how new rulers look at it in the most important financial debate of the year. That's where the dividend tax comes from, then the Vpb reduction and we'll be talking about the BIK later. That is where it comes from, because the burden on businesses must not increase on balance. If you look at the measures that are being taken, such as tackling tax avoidance, which is sometimes even against evasion, then I think that this should simply benefit the general resources and reduce the burden on citizens. That reasoning has been a bit of a cornerstone of this cabinet's budgetary policy. But if the Secretary of State agrees with me that that is not really wise, then I am very satisfied and then perhaps we can do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u29	No, the Secretary of State doesn't say that's not wise. It is not so strange that we are also doing so in the case of citizens in order to link acceptance widening and tariff reduction. We have already done this once in the case of income tax, in the case of previous tax reforms. That is not strange in itself, but it is not a law of Meden and Persians, that is the term I just used, that it should always remain in the same domain, I say to Mr Nijboer. I can imagine that at some point you will find that a particular type of tax is more appropriate in the future. But that does not necessarily mean that it should remain in the same domain. I think that's the nuanced answer to this. I'd come to better taxation. Equity and debt, and the cost of it, is something close to my heart. I actually had the idea of saying that in March or April, too, in the press, in order to further limit the interest deduction for companies. I also saw that this would add to the burden on business. I am actually very pleased that we have now decided in the Millions Note to look at the capital deductions in the decision-making process. This is a deduction that applies not only to debt but also to equity. It's actually the logical economist's answer to the question of how best to deal with the problem that the minister just extensively appointed for the Dutch economy as a whole, and that also plays a very important role in business. That is in good Dutch "overleverage," the fact that companies finance themselves too much with borrowed assets, subtract the interest and thus make more profit. Of course, that's a flywheel that's spinning. Anyone who has learned this at the university knows that this is called the "heavy effect." That's exactly what's happening. But that is something that can get in your way in the long run, because it can limit the resilience of business. What I am about to look at in a study, which we are trying to complete in such a way that it could also be on the table at the formation, is whether we can go to a capital deduction: that means that both the costs of equity and of debt become deductible for the Vpb. This is complicated because the cost of own funds is more difficult to determine. That leads to all kinds of tax questions, but we're gonna try. I'm happy about that, too. That goes with a closed cut, by the way. There was also a zero in the Millions Note for this, which means that we are likely to increase the cost of debt and lower the cost of equity. You already understood that, because otherwise there can be no zero. Which brings me to a better box 3. You may not all have the word "better" in your head at box 3, but it needs to get better. I really think that we should do everything in our power to achieve a real rate of return. I think I'm the eighth Secretary of State... No, it can't be: this is from the beginning of this century, so I'm the fourth or fifth one who's pursuing that goal, who's a little tired of the flat-rate system, who's tired of the legal problems and who's tired of the injustice involved. The Members who were in the debate on this know that I have announced an inquiry into how this can be done in practice. I got some cynical reactions when I announced the next investigation, but that was a little faint, because I'm gonna do a different kind of investigation. I'll have a look into whether the technique still limits us in keeping track of the actual rate of return. My own point is that this should not be the case, with all the modern technology we have today. This would mean that this should also be possible for tax purposes. There are still a lot of difficult questions coming from behind, but that is the goal. As a step in this direction, we have now decided to increase the duty-free rate in the rate of return from €30,000 to €50,000. That's not small. This means that the number of taxpayers in box 3 decreases from 3 million to 2.1 million. All people between €220,000 capital, single, and €440,000 capital, partners, are improving on the situation in which we would not have done so. I think that is an improvement in the system, but that is not quite the end, because we are going to look at the real rate of return. Mr Alkaya asked in the first term when we can expect the state of the millionaire tax investigation. We included that in the building blocks, so there are two variants for a millionaire tax in the report on tax building blocks. In my view, this meets a motion by Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Weyenberg, if I recall correctly. I believe that this is the answer to Mr Alkaya's question. Mr Van Otterloo asked: if you would gradually increase that tax-free capital by €25,000 each year, how much would that cost? That's 210 million. Then we'll cut the tape with the surcharges. This means that we leave the power limit in the surcharges where it is now, as is the case in the current proposal in the Millions Note. Then it costs 210 million per €25,000 higher exemption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u30	A brief question from Mr Van Otterloo on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u31	Yes, a short question, which also has a relationship with what the Secretary of State just said about box 3. Mr Snel's previous proposals were also based on budgetary neutrality. That led to fairly complicated images. But at the moment there is a risk of negative interest on savings. At the same time, the percentages that are still in the Tax Plan for next year, but which were also in force in all previous years, are characterised by the people who have to pay it as expropriation. So how do we deal with that now? Because it is very good that it is being investigated whether it can be done better technically. I am totally in favour of this, but the question is also how we deal with the old problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u32	Mr Van Otterloo is right: there is an old problem in this area. In the short term, I will come to the Chamber with a letter to indicate how we will deal with this. That is the problem of the past. He is also right that savings rates are now extremely low. I am trying, by increasing that duty-free foot, to take a first simple step that is also feasible. That is in fact the imperfect answer to this problem. So I admit immediately that it is an imperfect answer, but it is the feasible answer at the moment. (NL) Mr President, finally, in this small block. Mr Van Otterloo asked why I did that start-up exemption; I'm just saying homely. Why did you do that, why did you work with an age and not just "the first time you get this, no matter how old you are"? I'm not gonna tell you if I wanted to. It sounds very reasonable what Mr Van Otterloo is asking, but this really is not feasible. We have looked very closely at this and the only thing that was feasible here and closest to reality as we experience it on a daily basis was an age limit. I understand, here too, that Mr Van Otterloo considers this to be imperfect, but that is the case in this sub-manic case. I can't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u33	I don't believe in heaven; so I don't expect it to be better there either. But on this subject. It is presented as a starter scheme, but in fact it is an age point. You're not 35 yet, and then you can take advantage of it. However, I am constantly hearing talk about the start-up scheme, while it is not a start-up scheme. The question is whether there can be no more clarity for the public either. Why, for example, didn't we look at a different age, which makes it possible for people to pay off their student debt first and then get paid to buy a home? Many people still have a student debt and are therefore not in a position to buy a property if they do not have rich parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u34	I understand Mr Van Otterloo's question, but unfortunately the answer remains somewhat the same. We checked to see if we could find a form in which we could implement a start-up exemption. The best approach of a starter is an age limit. You can also set it to 36 or 34, but that's how we came up with this proposal. If Mr Van Otterloo says 'you must be more clear about the fact that this actually means an age limit', then I say this very clearly now, also for the camera. The other way, so as the first home, we can't do that; you know that, with a starter. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the subject I think most discussed in the first part, at least in my field, the tax field, namely the Job-related Investment Discount, the BIK. I see everyone standing up and I see Mr Azarkan nodding. Two times two billion euros. I'm gonna try to explain how the thing works first. Then I will set out the objectives and then I will answer a number of questions. I'll add that next Monday's bill will be coming your way, in full detail. I cannot yet mention certain details, because the bill is still with the Council of State. Two times two billion euros. How does the thing work? The thing works like this. It's an investment deduction. A certain percentage of the investment made by an entrepreneur may be deducted from the wage charge. Why is this thing executable? I am a little ahead of the questions of feasibility; I shall come back to Mr Alkaya's question in greater detail later. Because we have followed the system of the Research and Development Promotion Act, the Wbso. It works in exactly the same way. In the first term it was asked: but there is also structural budget? Yes, but that structural budget came from the Vpb reduction in the previous Tax Plan. That VPB cut was an employer's tax cut. For two years we have taken this employers' reduction to do something specific with it. Maybe I can try to explain the purpose, because it was somewhat confusing in the first term, I found myself. It's actually a very simple idea. Private investment is the most important spending category in this type of highly advanced economies. It is more important than consumption, more important than exports and more important than public expenditure. Why is that? That is because the investments have two effects. Investment creates spending. You buy it. You need to buy a machine, a bakery machine, a car, et cetera. At the same time, production capacity is created in companies. That is what we call the capacity effect. That's what investments do. So if these private investments fall, it will not only have an effect on the economy in this year or next year, but a much longer-term effect. Investment is, as it were, the turning point between the short-term and the long-term. The aim of this reduction is to maintain investment levels in a crisis in which a restriction from the outside, a pandemic, the economy, threatens to fall silent. I don't think anyone here is denying that these private investments are going down. People say they'll be back next year. Yeah, that's true, but we're losing a little bit. Secondly, we do not know whether next year is going to be as "favourable" as it is now estimated. Private investment is therefore crucial in such economies. We have now tried to take a piece of the relief for companies and reserve it for two years, twice 2 billion, for a specific type of discount, so that investment becomes more attractive. It is about making additional investments, but above all it is also about bringing forward planned investments. You recognize it, because the Minister's contribution just brought back the issue of public investment. That's what you're trying to do here. These investments are being brought forward. It is a temporary arrangement, which focuses only on new investments. They must be put into service within two and a half years. That is basically the architecture of the Job Oriented Investment Discount. Mr Alkaya asked whether the cabinet had looked at alternatives. Yeah, of course we did. There was a VPB cut in the books, I say to Mr Alkaya. You can also opt for random write-off, early write-off. The advantage of the Job Oriented Investment Discount, the BIK, is that it also works for companies that make no profit. There are quite a few of them in this time. So that's what we've been looking at. Then there were a number of interventions about the impact on employment. I therefore deliberately take the instrument as an investment-oriented instrument. Of course, you do it eventually to keep jobs, but every entrepreneur knows that you invest to keep jobs. So I say to Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya, who stressed the importance of jobs in particular: yes, that is really the purpose of this instrument. There are other instruments for that. We don't have to have a shadow fight over it that there are other instruments. You can also reduce employers' costs. Of course you can. Of course you can. But I repeat my point: we, the cabinet, have thought that at this stage, in which you are in between recovery and crisis and where, let us be quite honest, you also don't know exactly where you are. I didn't know two months ago that we would be at this stage of the economy if such an investment-oriented instrument were to work best. Mr. President, do you want me to finish the BIK block first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u35	I did want to see where you were around the BIK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u36	Just a few more minutes. I've got a few things left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u37	Let's do that. I shall then give the Chamber every opportunity to ask further questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Chairman. There were quite a few questions about whether the BIK is also aimed at SMEs. The answer to that is simply yes. We're gonna put in the arrangement that comes to you on Monday. So we're going to make sure that smaller investments get a relatively higher deduction than a larger investment. Our estimate now is that about 60% of the BIK funds, to name but a few, will end up with SMEs. Contrary to what is stated in the Millions Note, I have also indicated that in my brief letter of Tuesday, all the other schemes that exist, the small scale investment deduction, the Energy Investment Deduction, the MIA and the VAMIL, all remain alongside the BIK. This means that the BIK stimulates both green investments, because you also keep your green jerking off, as well as focusing on SMEs. That brings me to the execution. Mr Alkaya asked very explicitly whether it was feasible, as a result of reports in the newspaper that I have read. There are two implementing organisations involved in this. That's the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands, the RVO, and the Tax Administration. I repeat the system of the Wbso. It also works in exactly the same way. It is also the case with the Wbso that it is carried out in principle by the RVO, the department of Economic Affairs. The information will then be forwarded to the Tax Administration. We, and also these implementing organisations, believe that this regulation is feasible. Only new investments are eligible. We will also keep the implementation organisations involved in the development of this. Then there's something else I need to say about the trial around here. I have written a sentence in the letter that I am deeply sorry about; it happens sometimes that you write a sentence that you think: well, I should have written a different sentence. That's the sentence about the WOB. I do not mean to say that, in particular, to Mr Alkaya and Mr Azarkan to send the Chamber documents only after three months of plowing through all the WOB documents, because that is, I believe, what Mr Azarkan, whom I often encounter in tax debates, was afraid of. That is by no means the case. I think we'll really be in a week, two weeks... I will do my utmost to send the underlying documents to your Chamber before we have the first legislative consultation on the Tax Plan. Then I have one question left and that is perhaps the nicest question for someone who is 57 years old and started his career at Economic Affairs when the Investment Account Act had just been abolished and people who knew the WIR were still out there. Mr Bruins, Mr Nijboer and Mr Snels asked, in response to the comments made by the Central Planning Bureau in the Macro-Economic Exploration, in so many words: what is the situation, are you just re-entering the WIR and are we going to get back to all the problems? The answer is, of course, no, I would never do that. A major problem with the WIR was that the company's assets could have been used before, causing so-called carousel fraud. And you can't do that with the BIK, because you can only use new business resources for it. Furthermore, it now works so that you can only cash the BIK if you employ staff. So it doesn't work for empty bvs, because then you don't pay a wage charge. So that's a second guarantee. A third guarantee that makes it different from the WIR is that the investments must be fully paid by the end of 2022 and that the assets must be put into service six months later. Finally, we have strictly budgeted the BIK. That means two times two billion. That also means that next year when we see that things are getting out of hand, we can intervene and we can sever the percentage for the following year to zero if necessary. We believe that we have built in sufficient budgetary security. Then I will end this subject with Mr Bruins' question as to whether the cabinet will take care of an SME test. The answer to that is: yes, we will gladly do so. In any case, we will continue to work closely with entrepreneurs in the drafting of the legislation, but we will be happy to carry out such an SME test. Then I guess I've had the subject of Job-related Investment Discount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u39	I have reason to suspect that there are some questions. I will start with Mr Nijboer, then Mr Azarkan and then Mr Alkaya, and then we will look further. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u40	It's quite a relief if the Secretary of State admits such a mistake about the WOB so generously. He's talking about a "subject" now; maybe he can say a little bit about this subject after the end of the Tax Plan: well, that wasn't such a good idea, this BIK. I am not going to ask about the details of the arrangement because as a Chamber we have just not received any documents or any legislative proposal. So about all these percentages and the difference with the WIR and the like, we are going to hold hearings and we also have the Tax Plan. I am going to ask a key question now, which is about the purpose of the scheme. That objective is to enable investment and job retention, at least if I understand correctly. My question is whether the cabinet is also open to methods that might bring these two objectives closer and even closer. I am referring in particular to the landlord tax. Research has been done on this: 60,000 jobs, investment in housing is also falling. The lesson from the previous crisis is: do not go into times of crisis to get all your construction workers out on the street. We saw BAM's messages yesterday. Is it open to the cabinet, if there is a better interpretation, which really is better for investment, job retention and the prevention of unemployment, to look at a more detailed interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u41	I think I have to answer this in two layers. The first layer of the answer is that with the Job-oriented Investment Discount, we really have an ugly word for it, but we have a broader objective if you are trying to keep up investment throughout the economy. That's the first thing. So the objective is just as different. The second layer of the answer would be that during the General Political Reviews a motion was adopted in this Chamber in which the seeker is indeed focused on the job sector. The cabinet gave Chamber judgment on that motion, because it is aware that there may be a need for more in that whole complex of construction and landlord tax. It's gonna take money for that. Maybe Mr. Nijboer thinks of the BIK, but I didn't think of that. I was just trying to explain that the BIK has a different goal. That would be the layers in my answer. The first is another broader objective. Two. It is not whether-or, it is and-and, where I think that the construction sector will be able to receive sufficient attention through the adopted motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u42	The latter is true: we are, and that is no secret either, in talks with GroenLinks and the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Finance to do more about it. I also hope this will improve. With regard to this tax measure, the Prime Minister said in the General Political Reviews: you never really know what is happening about employment, it just has to happen, but you never really have an idea. I'll fight that. I am arguing that tax measures cannot have any idea of the impact on employment and on investment. That was already the case with the dividend tax, and this is perhaps the case with this measure. Is this measure calculated on the number of jobs it will generate and how much investment it will generate? I can just give you a railroad book table. They also always indicate what a GDP reduction does, what a labour cost reduction does, what lowering the landlord's tax does, what spending does. We just know that. It's just general knowledge. Can we also expect such an underlying economic analysis in this measure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u43	If the Chamber wishes to do so, I hear that Mr Nijboer wishes to do so in any case, then I can ask the Central Planning Bureau to review this measure. I agree with Mr Nijboer that is the advantage of age, because I have already done in my life that you can make it of this too. Some are harder than others. Evaluating effects on investment is not easy, but I think it should be possible in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u44	Finally, I will be very brief. If there were fiscal measures in the field of business which were clearly better than this measure and which would also fit into government policy, would the Secretary of State be prepared to look at whether both the cabinet's objectives were to achieve broad economic investment and not just build it, I understand, and would employment be more accessible in that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u45	I think the cabinet is always open to better ideas. We think this is the best idea at the moment. I spent a lot of my free time on this and we came up with this. Better ideas are always welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u46	I would like to address my fellow Members for a moment. I have Mr Azarkan, then Mr Alkaya, then Mr Mulder and then Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u47	I've already enjoyed, especially the first part, of the college's basic economy. Consumer spending, public spending, and, of course, business investment; it is incredibly important. I also asked about the BIK whether it could be that a company abroad orders, buys, or invests in machines, which makes it so efficient in the Netherlands, for example the handling of luggage that no longer goes with people, but automatically, that we have fewer jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u48	Yeah, it's both possible. I thought Mathijs Bouman in Het Financieele Dagblad said that you should only give these investment discounts to investments that destroy jobs. I thought that was a somewhat radical point of view from Mr Bouman. But his reasoning was as follows: over the next few years in the Netherlands, we're shorting people rather than jobs, so that's worth pursuing. I think that at the moment, at this stage of the crisis, that goes a little far. Now you want to do something in taxation that helps both those investments and employment. But Mr Azarkan is right: we cannot regulate this in any way, nor should we be allowed to buy goods only in the Netherlands. That's not allowed. We are in an internal market. That's the first thing. So you shouldn't want to. And second of all, you can't arrange that investment doesn't destroy jobs, too. Investment has this strange character, as Mr Azarkan rightly points out. Let's take a very simple example. When a baker first makes bread and then buys a bread machine, it destroys the job of the person who makes the bread by hand, but at the same time more people might work in that bakery. That's the effect of that investment. So those two things usually go together. To sum up, in reply to Mr Azarkan: no, you cannot arrange that these are only Dutch investments. It wouldn't be nice either, because if Germany were to take care of this, we would have stayed in the monkey. German car companies make quite a lot of investments in the Netherlands, as you know, near Brabant. So you don't really want to. And second of all, you can't arrange for every job that followed from the BIK to be preserved. But my firm expectation is that a billing of the BIK's is actually what you are asking for, and will not lead to fewer jobs in the Netherlands. That won't be the outcome of the Central Planning Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u49	A clear answer and, in my view, consistent with the Prime Minister's response to it. I don't want that first one either, by the way. I don't think you should just order in the Netherlands, because if we all do that and we protect our own economies, you're more on that side of the spectrum and I think we'll be worse off in the longer term, especially as a country dependent on abroad in terms of income. Still, the second one. It's called the Job-related Investment Discount, but then it can also work out that we have fewer jobs. I find that difficult. I have not read what Mr Bouman said about it, but for the next two years I do not expect it to go very well in terms of unemployment. So I think we really need all hands on deck to make sure that as many people as possible keep their jobs. I find it difficult to explain that the Job-related Investment Discount will then work out in such a way that it might be better in the longer term, for innovation and for other effects, but if that means that people will come home with that money, then I find it difficult to rhyme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u50	I told you at the end of my first answer, we might be a little too fast. I'd like to repeat it quietly one more time. My firm expectation is, knowing this kind of effect on how this is going to work in the economy, that if you ask the Central Planning Bureau, our best source for this kind of thing will say that it will have a positive effect on employment. But I was only honest with Mr Azarkan that it will not be so in every company. That also differs from the type of investment. Just one more example. If an order service buys extra cars with the BIK.That's an investment.They have to be made. They are not usually made in the Netherlands, but there are extra drivers in those cars, you can assume. So it's gonna create extra jobs. But if that investment is used to be labour-saving, it can be done with some investments, it will destroy a job in that company, but then there may be another job elsewhere. That's how these things work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u51	These effects are indeed difficult to predict. I fully acknowledge that. I had a hunch... No, let me start another way. First of all, it is very good that the Secretary of State corrects that we do not get the documents until after the WED procedure has been completed, because we simply have to weigh up here and we simply get certain documents when we ask them. That's very good. Why we have therefore asked and why this is so important is the following. I had a suspicion that there would be a connection with the Research and Development Promotion Act. That is where the wage costs of a specific group of workers are only deductible, whether or not they are one-off investments. If you just hire people who are engaged in research and development, you can deduct certain costs. Now that group is enlarged, you can deduct all wage costs, then one condition has been set: yes, then you have to make investments. So I cannot escape the impression that the Secretary of State has already made an assessment of 'deze,zeze,zeze ze companies will probably be eligible if we define it in this way'. So it's already clear in advance: we want to give a discount to those companies and then we're going to shape it so that specifically those companies get a discount. Can the Secretary of State rule that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u52	This is so ingenious that I really need to think about it. The answer's just no. I haven't seen anyone come up with this. I think it's ingenious. The device, the BIK, comes from the fact that there was a Vpb reduction in the macro plates. We've been looking to see if we could use that VPb reduction more efficiently in this crisis time. That's where this measure comes from, nothing more, nothing less, without thinking about the exact business it would go to. The only reason we use the Wbso-systematic is because that system is just there. It's a.. what do you want to call it? In order to be able to grant grants in a simple manner, a stamped, certified system. That brings all kinds of benefits. It means, for example, that you really have to pay wages in order to enjoy it. And that again has the advantage that you can't use empty bv's to invent all kinds of smart constructions. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u53	I do not rule out the fact that the Secretary of State has actually thought of this. It is clear that VNO-NCW thinks this is a good idea. Of course, he may have thought of this as well. I can very well imagine that the average catering entrepreneur is not going to make any investments now, no matter how many discounts you throw at it, because there is still a lot of uncertainty. I can also very well imagine that there are big companies that were already planning to invest and that think: well, a discount like that suits me well, I'm going to invest early. I can imagine that the employers' organisations have said: you know what, we're going to put that in, then our big members are going to make as much progress as with a reduction in corporation tax, only then it has something job-related in it. So that's very bad. So I'm curious to see what's in those pieces that we're getting sent. I am curious to see what will come out of this WOB procedure, and I expect the Secretary of State to take a critical attitude towards lobby organisations of this kind, because someone will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u54	Sure, somebody's gonna benefit from this. People who invest benefit from this. I do not agree with Mr Alkaya on the incentive that this gives. He is right that the overall uncertainty in this economy does not promote investment, but on balance, given where we are, this BIK works. Even as a cafe or what kind of business makes investments, the BIK works positively. The only question is whether that entrepreneur is actually going to make that investment. You don't know that, I don't know, that's gonna have to turn out. Mr Alkaya is right that uncertainty is bad for investment. That is precisely why we are putting in place a system that is trying to promote these investments. In that sense, we have the same reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u55	Mr. Mulder, you have a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u56	I get the explanation, but he's no good. Isn't it just possible to take a job-oriented measure on the condition that he has to create new jobs? You can just include that in a measure like this, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u57	You can include that in the measure, but that means making the measure extremely complicated and inefficient. I do not think Mr Mulder wants to go to an economy where the government is going to decide for entrepreneurs what kind of investment they are doing. That's actually what he's saying. You do want some investments and some investments do not. If investment in a café should lead to labour savings, you come up with: you may not buy a dishwasher, but you may buy additional bar stools. I don't know what kind of economy we're going to. What we are doing here is promoting investment by making them cheaper with that premium. In the economy, on balance, this usually leads to more jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u58	That's a very weak defense. I'm not suggesting that one investment shouldn't be allowed and the other investment should be. The story is that if you invest without creating new jobs, you just invest, and if you do it in a way that creates new jobs, you can use that arrangement. Then the scheme is really job-related. It's not that complicated at all. I find it funny that part of the defense of a Secretary of State for Finance is not to complicate a settlement. That's a you-bowl of thunder when I look at everything that's constantly being proposed. So again, it is very simple, Mr President. We can simply include in the assumptions that an investment is job-related if it creates jobs. Anyone can still invest, but without the percentage discount. If an investment results in jobs, you can use the two times 2 billion. Sounds like a win-win to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u59	Shortly, then, once more: impossible. This really makes it very complicated. I'm gonna have to check to see if jobs are being created. Secondly, this is a kind of economy that many of the members of this Chamber do not want. We are going to use instruments to determine whether or not jobs are being created. This is a very simple scheme, whereby you give a premium on investments. In general, we know from long experience that stimulating investment will create additional jobs on balance. It's as simple as that. You're not gonna steer per company, with: you're not gonna get this, because you're gonna have to create extra jobs. You get an economy in which artificial jobs are created. I don't know if Mr Mulder wants that. People are going to create jobs to get BIK. I don't understand anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u60	Finalizing, Mr. Mulder. You don't have to answer the question. You may ask questions to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u61	I just can't get an answer. It is possible to record this. It's not complicated at all to check it out. It would be a stronger underpinning of this instrument than if you said: we have invented something that meets the wishes of large companies. In this way, if it creates jobs, it is also much more interesting for SMEs. I'd say just think about it again. And stop, I say, by telling you, Mr President, that this is going to be complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u62	I do not understand that last point about SMEs. Indeed, I have just explained that there is an SME accent in this scheme, with even a higher percentage of deduction, and that 60% of the ICI reaches SMEs. That will also be evident on Monday from pieces we are going to send to the Chamber. I do not understand that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u63	I don't think it's a big deal if a job is destroyed when an entrepreneur buys a smart machine, if that smart machine builder is in Ruurlo, and not Munich. For that, we need Minister Hoekstra's Growth Fund. Having said that, thank you for the clear commitment that there will be an SME test for the BIK scheme. I'm very happy about that. I have a question about the estimate that 60% of the BIK scheme will go to SMEs. Of course, there's an assumption in that. I know the smartest people work in finance, but there is a certain distortion in how that arrangement will work out. I would be delighted if we could get some more information on the documents on 5 October and a little more insight into how the officials came to this estimate. Perhaps there can also be a gini coefficient for this distortion distribution, so that we can check that this is a realistic and reasonable estimate. Can the Secretary of State agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u64	My short answer is: yes, we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u65	There is a question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u66	From 2 billion dividend tax to 2 billion profit tax to 2 billion IGV. I assume that the Secretary of State does not blame us for being somewhat suspicious of what exactly this arrangement should be doing. But the substantive debate is important. My question as an economist is how much deadweight loss this arrangement may have according to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u67	There's no standard for deadweight loss. Let's take a few other examples. If you lower the Vpb, there is Mr Snels, I don't think that's going to give you deadweight loss, of course. If you lower labour costs for employers, all employers will receive lower labour costs, including those who do not accept additional people. So you always have deadweight loss. I'm not gonna put a mate on that. If Mr Snels asks whether it is important to know what the efficiency or effectiveness of the scheme is, the answer is, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u68	That's exactly my question. I understand that the Secretary of State is looking for fiscal measures to support companies in difficulty in this crisis, including investment. However, I fear that this scheme will compensate for investment and grant investment subsidies to companies which already invest, so that the money will reach those who do not need it and not those who do. That's my great fear. That is why I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to allow the CPB to pass that on. The Secretary of State spoke of railway books. But railroad booklets only make sense if you also know alternative routes. That's how they work, as the Secretary of State knows. Is the Secretary of State prepared to have such a railway book made, with BIK, social charges, landlord's tax and early depreciation in a number of variants in a row? Then you get the pass-through with the effect on investment and on jobs and then you see, in accordance with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, what the purpose is, how effective and effective the investments are and whether alternatives have been considered. Then it becomes a meaningful exercise of the CPB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u69	In the debate we have just had with Mr Nijboer or with you, I would like to have it passed on to the CPB, on the basis of exactly the same reasoning. It is right that the Chamber should ask: we are getting a proposal, could you show how this proposal relates to other proposals? By the way, there are 2 billion bets for other forms of the CPB, which everyone can use in such a way. I would be happy to add it if we send the booklet for this measure to the Chamber. I hope, of course, that this measure will prove to be the most effective at the moment in maintaining investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u70	That's a very nice commitment. Then we really get a complete railway book. I'd like the Secretary of State to be right, but we'll see that when the railroad book is ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u71	Thank you. And deadweight loss is a loss of prosperity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u72	Pretty much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u73	Look! I'm getting so much college here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u74	It's a grant for expenses that have already been done anyway, so a grant for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u75	I think the Secretary of State has come to an end...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u76	No. I said no too soon, but I'm almost at the end. I have one more topic, namely the local authorities, the co-governments. You are lucky, because I am also a co-fund manager of the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. I would like to say a few words about this, because I believe that some Members have made comments and put questions to Mrs De Vries, Mr Bruins and Mr Van Otterloo. Of course, after the last six months, since we are talking to VNG, the IPO and the waterboards, I recognize that there is pressure on the finances of the other governments. Let me repeat the numbers, otherwise the wrong picture will linger. The municipalities have more than 5 billion more resources in the municipal fund in 2021 than in 2017. This year, too, the cabinet invests in municipalities if you like. This spring, for example, 130 million were made available for the social domain, including 55 million structuralally for Safe Home, women's shelter and homeless people. For the years 2019 to 2021, more than 1 billion have been made available to the municipalities for youth care. We have added another 300 million in the last Million Note. I myself have been heavily involved in the corona support for the municipalities. In the context of the corona crisis, more than 1.5 billion has now been transferred to the co-governments, including the very desired deletion of the scale-up reduction for 2020 and 2021. In addition, the agreement with the municipalities and other co-governments is that we will give a real compensation for the income they experience lost and incurred as a result of corona. In short, the financial position of the municipalities has our attention. This is also apparent from the fact that we have almost weekly talks with the UNG and other organisations on this subject. I believe that I have come to the end of my speech. But I forgot something, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u77	If you've forgotten anything else...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u78	No, the Secretary of State has not forgotten anything, but during the Spring paper debate we also discussed this with the Minister. We did receive a letter about the part of the scale discounts and the conversation with the CPB; thank you for that. What we were talking about at the time was Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act, which says: don't give municipalities a job, without giving them enough budget. How can we guarantee that even better if we have a budget rule here? Now I saw that on the VNG's ALV there was also a motion that asked: shouldn't there be an independent referee who can determine for this task whether that is the budget that is needed, rather than being a kind of negotiating game? 'Cause you'd want that to be just something you can determine, right? How does the Secretary of State view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u79	If Mr Sneller will allow me, I would like to discuss this with the Minister, because this is a typical thing that lies at the intersection of the two of us. I must also honestly say that I do not recognise that motion from the VNG ALV. I just need to figure out what it's about. I'd like to get back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u80	Otherwise, we're gonna do it again with his co-fund manager in two weeks. So I have every sympathy for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u81	That's not nice to my beloved colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u82	The Secretary of State will come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u83	I am also going into this point. The Secretary of State is right to say that the two-year scaling-up discount has been lifted, so to speak. But that's a temporary measure. Now, of course, the cabinet can hardly rule over its own grave on the one hand, but there is also the fact that after that there is a substantial discount in the accres. This gives the municipalities a worrying future in financial terms. So the question is also what is going to be discussed in these weekly conversations about the possibilities of giving them more comfort for the future than these two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u84	The discussions we are having at the moment are really about the here and now, about this year and next year, corona and what is happening now. If Mr Van Otterloo means to ask whether we are also looking at the longer term and how to deal with it, even after this cabinet period, I think the answer is: yes, we should look at that. But it's a bit for formation in a next cabinet. My own experience is that this relationship is, of course, complicated in this way. I think the Minister agrees with me that we should just talk about it and take a closer look at it in the longer term. But there are all kinds of difficult questions for the municipalities, such as their own tax area, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of answering this part of the cabinet. The chair will be cleaned for a while. I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance, in charge of Fees and Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is also a pleasure for me to be standing here. I should also like to thank Members for the singular question I have to say in this case. On Prinsjesdag you received from me the bill improvement feasibility surcharges and last Tuesday the progress report on the child care allowance. I am convinced that we will be able to discuss both issues further, so I will be brief today. I turn to the question put by Mr Alkaya. He asked whether the cabinet would be willing to make every effort to give parents an advance on the money they were entitled to in the context of the recovery of the supplementing problem. Of course, we want to compensate the parents who have been injured as well and as quickly as possible. We want to offer them tailor-made services, as we agreed with your Chamber, to listen carefully to what parents say to us and, of course, to answer the questions they ask us. I really need time to help those parents. I have to be honest with you about that. We need more time than we thought, not only to listen to the story of the parents, but also to make sure that they can put their lives in order. This takes time, from us, and also from the municipalities we work with, for example. We are looking at how we can not only compensate parents financially, but can also help with housing and, for example, problems in the field of work or otherwise. Last Tuesday, in the progress report, I indicated that we would like to help parents with acute financial problems and parents in very distressing situations by the end of this year with an emergency payment. At the moment we have a group of about 250 parents in mind and we are looking at whether we can assess these parents as much as possible, so we can go through all these things and completely compensate those parents. If that is not possible, because more work has to be done on our side, or certainly because there is a problem on the part of the parents, we will make sure that we make a first payment. That first payment is therefore a payment that parents never have to pay back. This comprehensive assessment is a wish of the Chamber, but it is also a wish of ours as a cabinet, because we want parents to be helped as best as possible. But it's still customization. So we are always striving for clarity. The rush payments and the progress you are asking for could also slow it down for other parents. That is why we want to make sure that we help the parents who are most acute and in a distressing position this year, as much as possible with full treatment and if that is not possible, with a first payment. We have also strongly urged parents who are in trouble to report to us. I would like to take this opportunity to raise another issue today. That is the proposal to look at improvements to the surcharge system, which your Chamber has also called for. Over the last few months, I have seen that the present system of supplements has created incredible problems. This is seen not only in the childcare allowance, but also in other parts of the supplement scheme. It sometimes leads to fraud, but in many cases, especially with regard to childcare, it leads to very serious problems for parents. Those parents sometimes suffer for years from what the system tried to achieve for them, but did not achieve. You have received an interim report from me in which I have outlined the possible alternatives overall, but at the end of this year I hope to have worked out a number of concrete variants of options that fit together with the cabinet. They could then be introduced in order to transform the present system of allowances into a system which does not have the disadvantages of the current system. Of course, in the meantime, I continue to use a lot of energy to solve all the problems of the injured parents as quickly as possible, but certainly also well and carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u87	Thank you. Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u88	Last year, as a Socialist Party, we took the initiative to give many of the parents a Christmas package, precisely because they are in financial difficulties and have not been able to face this type of holiday for many years like many other people happy and with good feelings. That is why it is so important that we make sure that, for those holidays and now that there is a solution in sight, they do not have to get through those dark days without our help. That is why I call on the Secretary of State not only to work carefully and properly, but also to look at the possibility that we will at least transfer a part of it in advance. Let's say €500 to €1,000 of that compensation amount per six months. That's a lot of money for these parents, because it's enough to be able to watch those holidays again. What kind of risk would we take if we were to transfer such an advance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u89	My intention is precisely to give parents, in acute and poignant circumstances, either the full compensation or at least a large part of it for the holidays. That's an amount they don't have to pay back. In the progress report I also indicated that I made an emergency provision for very special cases. I do want to avoid driving all the work we're doing to compensate these parents, especially those 250 parents I mentioned. And I'd do that if I were to do other files in the meantime, because that's what's slowing us down with these parents. My intention is therefore to make sure that parents do not have a nasty Christmas or a nasty sintering classroom as in recent years. I really want to ensure that parents with acute problems and parents in a distressing situation are actually helped before that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u90	That delay doesn't mean anyone wants it. Suppose the Secretary of State really believes that it would delay us if we were to talk to more parents about 250 herself, but there are 300 to 600 people who are paying an advance than she is planning to do right now. If we could just pay those 8,100 parents who called in an advance... But if it really would lead to delays, of course we all do not want to. So let me do it like this. I am about to table a motion for an extreme commitment on the part of the Cabinet to give, where possible, where it does not lead to delay and the risk is low for the Cabinet, as many parents as possible, at least more than 300 to 600, an advance on the money they are simply entitled to, so that they can get through the holidays a little better than in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u91	Of course, I'm gonna take a look at that motion. I haven't seen the text yet. But again, my intention is precisely to ensure that people who are now in financial distress are in acute trouble, helped before that period. I'd like to focus all our efforts on that. We're working really hard to get that done. But I like to look at the lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u92	I would like a moment from the human suffering that Mr Alkaya quite rightly refers to, back to the system debate that is behind it and the solution to it. Thank you for the interim report on this. My question is: if these packages come to the Chamber in December, at the end of the year, will they be ready for implementation? Or is it still about steps before that? We would, of course, like the formation, whoever is there, to be able to take as many decisions as possible, which can then be implemented as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u93	That's exactly my intention. The idea is to make such packages... In the current letter you see what is possible if you want to change the fees. Think of variations that are on the one hand about changes in the underlying systems, the housing market and childcare. On the other hand, think about working on taxation or income. But it is indeed important to make proposals in such a way that the people who are about to negotiate can make a choice. Because the last thing I would like to do, I think, is to do with your Chamber, because it adopted the motion at 150-0 to ensure that we get another system, which is that we cannot make such a choice at the next formation. That will, of course, depend on the parties. As far as we are concerned, it is very important that a subsequent cabinet in the formation can make a choice as to the proposals that have been completed and the implementation tests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u94	That sounds really good. Thank you for that. This includes what the introduction of the transition to that new system would involve and how to bridge it. Indeed, many of these system changes call for ingrowth paths to be explored further. But is that as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yeah, I think so. Perhaps we will have to devote part of the period to the formation. On the one hand, of course, it's about what you want, what your final picture is, what it's supposed to look like. Of course it is about the steps to be taken. Such a final picture can sometimes take a little longer. But both issues are part of what we want to deliver in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you. Then we've come to the end of your first term. We're moving on to the second term. That is a natural moment for me to leave the Chair. You will continue in a moment under the inspiring leadership of Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u97	I suspect that Mr Azarkan has a point of order. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u98	That's right. I would like to ask you for a brief moment of suspension so that we can discuss for a moment, five to ten minutes max.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u99	Shall we make that seven minutes? Time starts now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u100	I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u101	Let me start with the bad news. I'm not available as Minister of Finance. So no matter how much GroenLinks wishes it, it's not gonna happen. Mr. Chairman. The economy is on a dive. Almost overnight we are in the deepest recession since the Second World War. This is not only due to the economic contraction, but also to the sharp rise in unemployment rates. In the second quarter alone, 340,000 jobs disappeared. Today we read that the corona pandemic is again causing mass redundancies. For example, the redundancies at Shell alone amount to 9,000, at KLM it is 1,000 and at Tata Steel it is 850 jobs, and it goes on and on. There's gonna be a lot of hits. The cabinet is trying with 46 billion in measures to prevent companies from going bankrupt and people from losing their jobs unnecessarily. But we also see today that that doesn't work. There's gonna be mass layoffs, so what now? What's this cabinet gonna do? The PVV is in favour of doing the same thing now, not to reduce the support for the next quarter, the next six months, but at least to continue and not to pay the discharge penalty to cats for a discharge bonus. That is why the next motion, which I can also table on behalf of Mr Tony van Dijck, is tabled. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are mass redundancies due to the corona pandemic;]] [[calls on the Government not to reduce aid to businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Chairman. The PVV also wants an increase in purchasing power for citizens, in order to boost consumption. Instead of wasting billions in and to other European countries, we should spend it on our own citizens in our own country. That is why the next motion, which I am also able to table on behalf of Mr Van Dijck. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to remove the signature of Prime Minister Rutte at the European Summit under the EUR 750 billion recovery package and not to give the EUR 50 billion of Dutch money to Southern European countries but to spend in our own country;]] [[calls on the government also to increase the amount of money in the Dutch purse by significantly reducing the burden, by reducing the low VAT rate to 0% for a year, significantly reducing the energy tax and significantly reducing the rents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u103	Mr. Chairman. The PVV finds it ridiculous that the government still pushes a flight tax through it, especially now that aviation is in such a bad state of affairs. There are 6 500 jobs at risk simply because of the tax on freight traffic, all because of the climate nonsense of this cabinet. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the flight tax unduly endangers many jobs;]] [[Calls on the Government to refrain from introducing a flight tax as of 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u104	After a long discussion, Mr Van Dijck agreed to table this motion on his behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u105	This unanimity is striking. Thank you very much. I call Mrs Aukje de Vries on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answer by the Minister and the two Secretary of State. As I said in the first term, as far as we are concerned, society is not a choice menu. As far as we are concerned, it is not either entrepreneurs or public sector, but and-and-and-so. We need them all and we are all the Netherlands. We can see that entrepreneurs are currently struggling and struggling to keep their heads above water. So the support packages that are there now, they're gonna have to be tough. I also think that we need this growth for the future, and that it is also important that we continue to invest. I have also stressed that we would like to bring public investment forward. If we can do that any more, that is a very good thing as far as we are concerned. We also want to stimulate private investments and we think that the VIK is a good way to do that. And we would also like to make an effective use of the Growth Fund. We realize these are very special times. This also means that flexibility is needed. I was just discussing the aid packages in an interrupting debate with the Minister. We welcome the fact that the cabinet remains in dialogue with entrepreneurs and business organisations to see what is needed, and that it continues to look at it with an open mind. We believe it is important that we help as many entrepreneurs as possible through this crisis. The Minister said about the Growth Fund: there is everything to talk about. At least that's how I understood it. As far as I'm concerned, that's pretty rough. The VVD considers it very important that we focus on this extra economic growth. As far as we are concerned, this must also be the starting point, because we believe that this is an important issue for people's jobs and incomes. We also think it is important that we have both knowledge and innovation, as well as infrastructure as an important subject. A lot of agencies also advise to choose exactly those. As far as we are concerned, these are also important principles. I have just indicated that we attach ourselves to the BIK because we think that investments are important. I think that the Secretary of State has also made a good plea for this and that he has given a good explanation of the importance of private investment by companies. We do this not so much for those companies, but ultimately also for people's jobs, or for maintaining jobs, or for additional jobs. But for that, we need these private investments. Some of us have also talked about budgetary policy, and the Minister has also talked about it. I think it has been very sensible for us to have been economical in good times, so that we could build a buffer and now we can invest heavily and put out substantial support packages. But we are also aware that public debt cannot grow infinitely, so we also need to look carefully at how we use that money. We are therefore looking forward to what I will call the Minister's 'vision' of the Stability and Growth Pact and everything he has promised on it. I think we can look at those rules. As far as we are concerned, it will be a simplification, perhaps better rules will be introduced, but it will certainly not be: no rules. And there certainly needs to be good enforcement. I will not table any further motions, Mr. Chairman. I will probably be the only one who is not going to do that, and I expect my colleagues to make up for all of this in a moment to get the number of motions back to a substantial level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u107	Nevertheless, thank you for your input. I shall now give the floor to Mr Snels. He speaks for GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Tuesday we talked in the corridors about a "what boring debate." That was true for the colleagues and, I think, for the rulers as well. But it wasn't today. It was an important debate today. I think that had to do with two things. Firstly, we are fully aware that we are in the midst of an economic crisis. Part of the debate has been about this. That's what we're all worried about, even in the very near future. Are there going to be additional restrictive measures or not? And what does that mean for employees, companies and entrepreneurs? I would also like to thank the Minister for Finance, who has indicated that the cabinet will continue to operate flexibly and that it is necessary to adapt the support packages. That was one side of the debate, if I sum it up as widely as possible. On the other hand, I liked that very much; I don't know if that's because of the financial spokesmen, but it was also a lot about the future. In the midst of an economic crisis, we look far ahead. We did this through the debate on public finances, the level of public debt, discount rates and budgetary rules. They're all about a healthy future. We are going to pursue that debate because the Minister has promised to send further reflections, an analysis or a letter to the Chamber. I do not know exactly how it finally came into the commitment to send it to the Chamber. I hope that we will be able to continue this debate on the Navy's note. But the debate was, of course, also conducted on the basis of the Growth Fund. That is really an important debate. In my view, there is no difference of opinion in the Chamber, at least not between the GroenLinks Group and the cabinet, about the importance of thinking about how we can achieve our prosperity in the long term too. I think the term 'growth capacity' is an ugly term even in the longer term. The Growth Fund is very important in this respect, I think. At the same time, it is also important to clarify the objectives and how we define them. There is a reason why I am critical of the CPB transfers when it comes to GDP growth. But I am also critical of the SMEA. So there really needs to be more clarity about exactly how we are going to do that and invest in the committee. The same is true, I think, of the role of the Chamber and of the non-departmental budget. When are the ministers going to talk about it and when will the Chamber be able to say something about it? We'll get a letter about that too. That's fine. That debate must be continued and so must the discussions on it. Mr. Chairman. The debate with the Secretary of State on the BIK was a step forward. It is a debate that threatens to derail occasionally in mere rhetoric, but at the same time it is also really about what we can do to support the economy, both businesses and the preservation of jobs. That is also still crisis policy. I welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to make a railway booklet, the variants of which are passed on by the CPB. I believe he himself was once vice president of the Central Planning Bureau. Then we can really decide, on the basis of facts, how to deal with this in the legislative consultation on the Tax Plan. That is exactly in line with Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, as I am also saying on behalf of my rapporteur. Mr. Chairman. I also had a debate with the Secretary of State about the Ter Haar Committee. I have also often said it to his predecessor: this cabinet has really turned its back on other cabinets and considers the approach to tax avoidance to be an important point in cabinet policy. We also see this in the Tax Plan. A number of proposals from the Ter Haar Committee have been taken over by the cabinet and are very soon being transposed into legislation. The cabinet deserves a compliment for that. I had a brief debate with the Secretary of State on commercial profits. The Ter Haar Committee writes quite hard that there is no data to get a good idea of what is happening with the tax payments of large companies. This has to do with the fact that there is a difference between commercial and tax profits. The Ter Haar Committee advises fairly harshly: it now obliges large companies to make that public. The Secretary of State has promised to return to that in the second term, but I have one motion on that. In last year's General Financial Reviews, I had no motion, but now one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Ter Haar Committee advises to require large companies to report commercial profits in all cases in the Netherlands;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how that should be reflected in a legislative amendment and to report to the Court on that at the beginning of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Snels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u109	I thank the rulers for their answers. A number of debates will be continued in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u110	Thank you for your input. After the necessary measures have been taken, the cathedral is for Mr Slootweg. He speaks for the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I see today's news, on the one hand I am glad that KLM has reached an agreement, but on the other hand I see reports about people who see their jobs on the road, including at KLM. We are discussing the Millions note now, but in the meantime we also see that there is something really at stake for a lot of people. Sometimes it is also very difficult to understand exactly what a million note will bring to these people, because while we all thought we could do things last year, at the end of February, at the beginning of March the world suddenly turned out to be completely different. I think part of the strength of our society is that we can find each other. In itself, the Netherlands belongs to the countries that are called a high-trust society: a society in which there is a lot of confidence. We simply need to continue to invest in improving that confidence. That is why I am here with Mr Sneller, who has done an extraordinary amount of work for this, to table a motion to see how we can improve confidence in the direction of business and corporate governance. Mr Sneller does so from the tradition he calls "progressive capitalism." I myself feel a little more senang in words like "Rhineland thinking" and "social market economy." But it is very nice that we were able to find each other in that. In view of the Millions note, I had another question: what does that mean in the longer term? I welcome the Minister's commitment: if you looked carefully, you could find it, but perhaps a little more is needed, and we are going to put that well in the Navy's note, perhaps a little more compact, where it goes with it. I like that very much, because it's you by these kinds of rules... This is also a bit of the game, where you just have to follow the rules to see what it means. I'm very content with that. My third point is a bit about the core theme of the Millions Note: how are we going to increase resilience? I can see that the cabinet is really taking steps in that direction. I was also pleased with what the Secretary of State said about foreign and equity, something that we have also stressed for a long time. I also see that a number of steps have been taken around households. I do notice that, in times of corona, we would like to have more insight into exactly what that is about. How is it possible that the cost of corona in some countries is to a large extent passed on to families, which are also more difficult to maintain their buffers? That led me to table a motion together with Mr Stoffer and Mr Bruins, to examine this more closely and to use the vehicle of the Transport Committee. I think it has been a proposal from my colleague Pieter Omtzigt to do so. One final comment is about the resilience and how you build buffers. I can at least announce that we as a group are considering this. I welcome the commitment to see what building savings there could mean. I recognize very much the feeling of "does this actually fit with the Dutch tradition?" In that we do a lot with the mortgage interest deduction, a phenomenon that is not known in Germany. We also have the fact that the interest rate is negative, so it hardly pays to save. But it is something we want to investigate, especially what it could mean for families and young adults. It is always difficult to review, but at least we are very pleased with the comments that have been made. On a number of points we are going into further discussion, both about the National Growth Fund and the BIK. I think there has already been an important exchange of views on this matter today. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u112	Thank you for your input. Then the floor is for Mr Alkaya, who speaks on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister and the two Secretary of State for the debate and for answering our questions. Mr. Chairman. I started my first term with the remark that because of the coronavirus everything is so insecure and therefore also surrealistic. We are looking at public finances, which could look very different. That is why I stressed that getting the virus under control must be top priority one, two and three for the cabinet. The consequences of society are very great. They can also be very large for the economy; for employees, for small entrepreneurs. In that light, public debt is also important. With the Minister, I have talked in detail about the fact that public debt should not now be an obstacle to being reluctant to take the necessary measures to control the virus because of harmful effects. Fortunately, we have low public debt. According to economists, it can double or at least increase by half without causing any problems. Therefore, let us not be reluctant to spend money on those things that people need to reduce as much as possible the negative effects on the economy and people's lives. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. They are not about the Job-related Investment Discount, which we are indeed going to talk about extensively. I have already expressed my distrust of this. The cabinet thinks it's funny, but I'm curious how it's gonna work out. My strong suspicion is that the evaluation will soon reveal that the companies that benefit most from it are broadly the same as those that would have benefited from a reduction in corporate tax. Larger companies that have a lot of money to invest. That's not the catering entrepreneur who's in uncertainty right now. These are the larger companies that employ a lot of people, allowing them to deduct investment from wage costs. I'm curious to see the evidence, the pieces behind it. But I am particularly curious about the evaluation. I am afraid that I will be right and that the big business will again benefit from this measure, just as would have benefited from the reduction in the tax on profits. But we're gonna talk about that in detail. Mr. Chairman. I am tabling two motions, first of all one on the Growth Fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the government will spend many billions of taxpayers' money through the National Growth Fund on investments aimed at promoting the earning capacity of the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that both the General Court and the Council of State are critical of the way in which the Fund is set up;]] [[calls on the Government to set up the Growth Fund by means of a separate institutional law, including the objective and the possibility of evaluation;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the Chamber's information position and authorisation function with regard to the Growth Fund by making more explicit the intended possibilities of the Chamber in the choice of projects in advance and ex post and the criteria to be used,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u114	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not the promised 5,000 victims of the premium affair were compensated this year but only 300 to 600;]] [[believes that the victims have been in complete uncertainty for too long;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to pay an advance on the compensation they are entitled to before the holidays to a larger group of injured persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u115	Yes, because it is well known that my colleague Omtzig is working a lot with Mrs Leijten on this point. Can you describe a little more about how you see that? The Secretary of State indicated that it also sees a major problem in the case of advances. How do you see how that shape should be? Could you give me some more subtitles on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u116	Sure. 8,100 parents have requested compensation and have applied to the Tax Office. Not more than 600 of them, between 300 and 600 of them, will be able to face compensation this year, according to the Secretary of State. I think that difference is too great. So there are 7,500 parents who have reported, but cannot face compensation this year. I think the risk is small if we look at how many of these parents we can pay an advance, at least for six months or a year. That amounts to €500 or €1,000. I think the risk to the organization is small. Those parents have a huge interest in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u117	What exactly are you seeing in front of you? You mentioned the dark months. Is that supposed to take shape around November?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u118	That is, of course, the intention, this year, so before the holidays. Let us say that an advance can be paid to as many parents as possible by early December at the latest. Let us also be clear: the shape does not matter very much. If the Secretary of State can find another form in which this can happen: very much. It should not lead to delays for all those other parents. It has to be done in a careful way. But look at the difference between the number of parents it's promised to, 5,000 parents, the number of parents who have reported, 8,100 parents, and the number of parents for whom the cabinet is now able to do something, 300 to 600 parents. That difference is just too big. I would welcome an advance for the holidays for many more parents. I have given here a number of options for the shape, but I remain recommended for other options of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u119	There is also an interruption by Mr Snels. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u120	I have a question about the first motion, also because I want to know what the authors think it means. Mr Sneller and I asked the Minister whether it would be possible to make an institutional law for a budget fund after this. That's what he's gonna write a letter about. Then we can certainly start with the non-departmental fund now, because we all believe that investment should be possible quickly in this crisis period, if there are good projects. How do the petitioners see that? Is the government allowed to continue with the non-departmental budget, or should we wait for the institution law for the budget fund? I'd like to get some clarity on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u121	I have not heard the cabinet's promise as: we are indeed going to make an institutional law. I've heard it's going to look at the possibilities. In the future, it might be possible. But I just think that's the right way. That is also what the Council of State and the General Court say. In my motion, I say that this is the way it should be, sooner or later. But I have not yet heard from the cabinet that it intends to do so sooner or later, only that it looks at the possibilities. In this motion, I would like to say that, as far as I am concerned, that is the best way. Preferably as soon as possible, but if it is in a year's time, it is better than what the cabinet is planning now, in this 'artificial way', in the words of the General Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u122	A follow-up question from Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u123	I understood that side of the argument. I think I see a lot of that, too, like superiors in the Chamber. But my question was about the other side. As long as the institution law and the budget fund are not there, what will we do with the amendment to the Compatibility Act and the non-departmental fund at EZK? It seems to me that this can continue, in the interest of the need to see if we can invest extra. Right? At least that's how I get to read the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u124	What the motion says, I just described. The way things are now in the budget, I find problematic. So I await the answer from the cabinet, but I do not rule out rejecting that budget if I do not get any other commitments because I do not want to write a blank cheque of 20 billion in this tricky way. The cabinet must come up with a little more. What I meant by the motion, I just explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u125	Clear, thank you very much. Then, in a few moments, Mr Sneller will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for the answer. The policy and legislative machinery of this cabinet is still in full swing, and in the meantime many groups are already looking at the next formation and the passing on of the electoral programmes. That is why I welcomed the Minister's commitment to discuss again with the Central Planning Bureau how that research and education will return to that accounting. I understand very well their independent position in that. I also saw a very broad agreement in the Chamber to raise these investments and further boost growth. Both State Secretarys have also made the necessary building blocks, variants, chips and other foundations for a subsequent government agreement. I would also like to thank them for their commitments to make them as concrete as possible, so that decisions can also be taken. Furthermore, we are naturally looking for new anchors with this budgetary policy and there is quite a difference of opinion as to where these anchors should be. In order for these anchors to land and record, it is necessary to have a broader consensus and at least a broader democratic debate. So I hope that after the opinion of the study group and the Minister's analysis, we will be able to discuss this not only with the Navy note but perhaps at another time before it lands on a formation table. With Mr Slootweg, I have looked at where the circles of social liberalism and Christian democracy overlap, as we stated in the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has a rich tradition of corporate governance in which corporate governance is considered to take into account in a balanced manner a wider range of economic and social interests of all stakeholders;]] [[Whereas, in recent years, there has been increasing doubt as to the extent to which this is being done in practice and it has become clearer that current legislation leaves room for departure;]] [[Considering that several proposals have been made for better legal anchoring of this form of governance with different compliance possibilities, for example by introducing a responsibility for companies to weigh all interests against each other or to oblige directors to ensure that the company behaves as a responsible company;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how this form of governance, in which the interests of all stakeholders are well-balanced, can be enshrined in the law and otherwise encouraged, and to endeavour to send this investigation to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u127	I now know why these motions need to be brief and concise, Mr President. That is also more pleasant for the petitioner himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u128	Yeah, that doesn't make it so easy for you to catch your breath, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u129	No, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u130	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u131	I've got five minutes. Furthermore, we have talked about broad prosperity. I would like to thank the Minister for announcing that, in November, the social cost-benefit analysis, which is also contained in the growth letter and the growth scales, will be followed up. Hopefully this will also offer some comfort for those parties who consider the wide range of well-being to be important. This was indeed a lot better. As stated in the Millions Note, the Council of State also had some nice suggestions for improvement, but perhaps they will be included in other motions. My motion concerns the point of the Council of State that we must continue to pay attention to the quality of public expenditure. They mention, among other things, SMEAs, but we are, of course, thinking very quickly about Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act; Mr Snels has already mentioned it. We realize very well in this Chamber that the Council of State is independent as a High College of State to decide for itself what they do, but we have formulated a wish for this from our point of view in this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that proposals under Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act (CW) should include an explanation of the objectives, effectiveness, efficiency, policy instruments and financial implications;]] [[whereas the General Court plays an important role for the House of Representatives to monitor compliance, but this is mainly a matter of investigation and ex post review;]] [[Whereas the Council of State, when advising on legislative proposals in advance, uses a review framework which includes a policy analytic test and which provides clear leads to pay more explicit attention to Article 3.1 CW;]] [[expresses its wish that the Council of State, when advising on legislative proposals, should pay explicit attention to the way in which the obligations laid down in Article 3.1 are fulfilled,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sneller, Mr Snels and Mr Aukje de Vries. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mrs De Vries has therefore tabled a motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u133	Thank you very much for the input. There is another interruption by Mr Van Raan. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u134	I'm wondering something. Last week or the week before, Honorary Member Jan Terlouw said that the corona crisis is perhaps just a whim, without wishing to diminish the seriousness of the matter, in the context of the forthcoming climate and biodiversity crisis. In this context, I would like to ask whether D66 agrees with the Animal Party that any budget and support package should actually be considered in that light, rather than the unfocused aid that does not take into account greening. Or do I give you a two-choice menu, D66 says: no, this was actually the maximum achievable thing that could come out of it, in terms of budget and aid packages, and we will have to do it with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u135	A multi-choice question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u136	With more choices, I'd rather have more than just a yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u137	Two choices!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u138	Two choices. In my view, Mr Van Raan is failing the packages and there are many points of departure to strengthen and further stimulate greening. Let me put it this way: it is a rather broad question. What are we going to do about the recovery fund and how are we going to apply for it? There are also comments about this in the Millions Note: there will also be a greening impulse. So no, we're definitely not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u139	A follow-up question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u140	The fact that we're definitely not there yet is clear. It's good that D66 recognizes that. But it's still not enough. And I never really hear D66 say that. We know much more needs to be done, so how can D66 say they're happy with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think there are other groups in this Chamber who often say that we think that it is never enough. That was my first answer to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u142	Thank you. Mr Nijboer now has the floor after cleaning up the sitting. "Cleaning" is just a primeval Dutch word for "cleaning" to avoid misunderstandings. You can do the same with language. But I give the floor to Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u143	That's rarely necessary for me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the reply to both the Secretary of State and the Minister, who had his birthday yesterday; congratulations. I would like to touch on three more points. First of all, rising unemployment. Today there were mass layoffs. Mr Slootweg referred to this in his speech. It's gonna be a hell of a time for the Dutch economy. We talked about the support packages. I have appreciated the way in which the cabinet wishes to take into account the opposition's desire to improve the measures. The Minister promised once again to look at the extension of the packages, but also at specific support packages for the cultural sector, for municipalities, for sports associations and for the catering industry, without saying directly: I will do so next week. I understand that, but I fear that we will have to deal with these corona measures a little longer and that more and more companies are going through all their buffers and are getting in a lot of trouble. Then I guess it's necessary to do something for that. The great instrument of the cabinet to drive investment and fight unemployment is, of course, also the BIK. I haven't been convinced of that; the Secretary of State didn't expect that either. I had prepared a motion to say: turn those alternatives against each other, weigh them against each other. What is the most effective way of combating unemployment in the short term and promoting investment? I said in my first term: I think housing is going to be very high, very high. The Secretary of State has already promised that he will, so I see it with confidence, or with care, which way you look at it. Mr. Chairman. We are talking to the cabinet about living together with GroenLinks. I think there is more and more to be done there, and we hope to achieve that. The second point. We have had a discussion, a debate on debt levels. The PvdA is not of the department "the more debt, the better" and has never been. I never will be. But I do think you should look at the macroeconomic context. The Minister has also indicated this. If you see debt rising everywhere in Europe, and in the world, by the way, if you see that interest rates appear to be structurally lower than growth, if you also see what social needs there are to invest, I call an investment in education, then actually the most stupid macro-economic policy would be not to invest in education and pay off public debt, if you put it that way. Then I think that is a very wise discussion to have in the Netherlands, but also in Europe. I also think it is wise to look much more closely at the costs of interest than we have done in recent years. Earlier was of course always a bit the doom scenario "that interest rate can rise again." That is true, but you can also see if that can not be spread over more years, so that you also have more adjustment time when it is. Because it could take 20, 30 years, and then you're scaring yourself for 20, 30 years, when you don't make necessary investments. So I think it is a very beneficial outcome of this debate that the Minister for Christmas presents a new vision of the Growth and Stability Pact. Finally, the Wopke-Wiebes fund. I have two fundamental problems with that. We will continue to discuss both with the Cabinet. Mr Alkaya has already tabled a motion on the first problem. Actually, that's the authority of the Chamber. A bit harshly put, the PvdA thinks: politics is not a consultancy agency and the Netherlands is not an e.g. It's about vision and organization of the society you invest in. That's not necessarily good or bad. One is for more education and the other for more airports; one is for more housing and the other is more for biomedical conditions or agriculture. That's just a political choice. That's what we've been chosen for. That's what we're here for. And you can't outsource that. I think that is a fundamental political point to leave with the Chamber. That has nothing to do with grabbletons and I don't know what, because you can make a good committee and a critical analysis of the CPB with proposals, so that you don't throw away money, but it remains an excellent political choice that you spend that money on. And within those choices too, I also say in connection with the debate with Mr Sneller, it matters. It should also be reasonable if money goes to education, whether it goes to higher education, to primary schools, to MBOs and what that ratio is a bit. That is an excellent political choice. I'm not gonna give a pass, the PvdA isn't gonna give a free pass for 20 billion in possible sensible spending without having any influence on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u144	But you have not finished the discussion with Mr Sneller, because he still has an interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u145	Apart from the next time we will talk about it again: it is not at all the question, I say to Mr Nijboer, to give 20 billion and'see what you do with it'? There are also just three policy articles on which it is divided. And if that is the level that Mr Nijboer wants to take the political decision on, that is exactly what is ahead. That is also the level of abstraction that he initially indicates as where he wants to be able to steer. Then it is indeed this for infrastructure, this for knowledge development and this for R&D.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u146	Mr President, I will come to the goal in a moment. Then I miss the housing in that and I miss, also within those sectors... I'll put it very practically. I am a huge supporter of investment in public transport, including from this fund. But I can come up with a few projects that I'm really opposed to. So at that level, too, I believe that as a Chamber, we do not only have a controlling role, and can send responsibility afterwards and the Minister away. No, even before, if I think that's a good idea, I want to be able to say that. This also applies to investment in education. This also applies to investment in innovation. That's not happening right now. The request is put aside 20 billion, committee comes with it, cabinet is not going to make decisions if that committee does not give a positive opinion, and the Chamber may then say to the minister: you have wasted the money. Yeah, that goes way too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u147	You will continue your speech, and there is still half a minute before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u148	That's exactly what I'm gonna do. I have a motion. We need to be sustainable, and that is sensible, but I have just printed out the report of the Committee on Wide Prosperity. It's a pretty good report. The committee was chaired by Rik Grashoff van GroenLinks and I was allowed to be part of it. Mr Heerma, the group leader of the party to which Mr Hoekstra is a member, and Mr Harbers sat in it. Mr Koolmees, a colleague of the Minister. The committee actually says that the whole policy must be based on the broad concept of prosperity. That's what my motion is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Growth Fund focuses on GDP growth as a guiding criterion;]] [[whereas the House of Representatives examined the importance of broad prosperity as a goal for financial and economic policy and there is also broad consensus in science that policies should be aimed at promoting it;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to replace the criterion of GDP growth with the objective of increasing broad prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr. Chairman. I conclude with the words of a former Minister of Economic Affairs, also party leader: without vision, the people are dwindling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u150	Thank you. I call Mr Bruins, who is speaking on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u151	Mr. Chairman. In my opinion, the last spell that Mr. Nijboer quoted came from King Solomon's Bible book Proverbs. A little older than...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u152	That depends on which Bible translation you use, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u153	This wasn't the American translation, Mr. President. I admit that. I start with another spell, from Seneca: the language reflects the soul. I liked the debate: beautiful language, beautiful style, but also beautiful content, especially today. Mr Snels also said: we have had deep and good discussions and we have cited many old wisdoms to talk about the future of this country. That's nice, that's very nice. I was even allowed to quote the Italian statistician Corrado Gini. I just got a full yes from the Secretary of State. That's delicious, isn't it? We have talked about state aid, about public debt, about the sustainability of public finances in bizarre times, because we live in bizarre times. It was good to have real reflections in the Financial Reviews, because that's what they're for. At the same time, many concrete commitments have been made. I thank the rulers for that. That means that I only have to table one motion, and that is a motion that the Chamber is about and which I do not ask for a ruling from the Cabinet. It is logical that I could not get a commitment on this. That motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that prosperity is much more than money, economy and growth;]] [[takes the view that a subsequent coalition agreement should be passed on from a broader perspective of prosperity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Snelter, Mr Slootweg, Mr Snels, Mr Nijboer and Mr Stoffer.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u154	Thank you, Mr President. I have two points, in Mr Nijboer's words: two essential points, both equally essential. We have broad reflections here on the finances. The Animal Party would like to quote what the Minister said: we will do whatever is necessary. I'm afraid that's not the case. Science tells us that right now we don't do what's necessary, we don't do enough. That is why we believe that the whole budget and all the support packages should be focused on combating and tackling the climate and biodiversity crisis. It shouldn't be sticking some patches with a support fund. If you are not going to send green, but you are giving a lot of support, then you are de facto supporting the current situation and that is still that we are on our way to a 3C world, and we should not want that. Hence the opinion of the Animal Party that the whole budget should be at the heart of tackling the biodiversity crisis from now on, or as of 2015. Mr. Chairman. My second point goes back to what the Minister started with. In 1630 there were the black swans; the unknown unknowns. You don't know what you don't know. In the case of zoonoses, was that not also because, in this case, the traditional economy was focused on just one figure, namely growth? For science, zoonoses wasn't a black swan at all. It was foretold a long time ago. In other words, because of the way we look and measure, there are black swans. Wouldn't it be nice if we could develop some sort of black-swan radar so that we can map these phenomena sooner? And what's the beauty of it: the black-swan radar is here. That's the broad prosperity monitor. That is why I would like to give another push to the path that was used by that broad-welfare monitor. Other parties have done the same. We are very pleased to hear that. Just by looking wider, you'd better see what's happening. Mr. Chairman. I'm one motion. It was co-signed by my colleague Mr Wassenberg, who was kind enough to take over my first term on Tuesday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber had previously adopted the Van Raan motion on a reflection on broad prosperity in the Millions Note, which could help to uncover policy areas;]] [[Considering that the integration of the broad concept of prosperity has begun in the Millions Note 2021;]] [[noting that broad prosperity is not yet systematically integrated into the current Millions Note;]] [[Considering that the Council of State recommends that, in future, numerical indicators of the development of the various aspects of broad prosperity, as generated by the Planning Offices and the CBS, should also be included in the budgetary notes;]] [[calls on the government to include numerical indicators of the development of the various aspects of broad prosperity in the next Millions Note, and to give broad welfare indicators a permanent place in the policy cycle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u155	I will, Mr. Chairman. My time is short and my motions are quite long. So I'm gonna start reciting them right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the effects of the corona pandemic show that a strong shift can be made on households and families;]] [[having noted that different measures are being taken in European countries to support society, such as the temporary VAT reduction and the children's bonus in Germany;]] [[Whereas the renowned German Institut für Makroökonomie und Konjunkturforschung has analysed that households with children incur additional costs compared to households without children, where the effect of the children's bonus, measured as an effect on household expenditure, was more effective than the temporary VAT reduction;]] [[Whereas the capacity of families to bear these costs, whether single, single or two-earners, may vary enormously;]] [[calls on the government to include in the committee capacity to what extent and what types of costs households have to deal with children in relation to households without children;]] [[calls on the government also to ask the committee to give specific attention, where possible, to the different types of households, such as earners, two-earners and single people, with or without children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Slootweg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u156	The next motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas taxation on the basis of capacity should be an important starting point in the tax system;]] [[Whereas the capacity of families, such as single people,one earners or two earners, may vary enormously;]] [[Whereas it is now often unclear how the effects of tax and surcharge-related measures relate to the capacity of families;]] [[calls on the government to report in a standardised manner on the impact of the measures on different types of households, including families with children and families without children, when taking fiscal and supplement-related measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u157	There is only one thing left for me, Mr President, and that is to thank the members of the cabinet for answering all my questions and wishing them a happy day. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u158	Thank you very much. I assume you'll be staying a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u159	I do, Mr. Chairman, but I'm not gonna be able to speak anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u160	That's true. Mr Azarkan then took the floor and spoke on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It feels a little like you're a Mart Smeets kind of giving everything proper commentary. Thank you for that! Mr. Chairman. We had a nice discussion with each other. I await the letter on the Stability and Growth Pact, which comes to the Chamber sometime in December, at the end of this year. I would like to know what the government thinks about this, but also what the commitment is going to be in Europe. We talked about the Growth Fund. A letter will be sent on Monday and it will be followed by a discussion. If I may believe the colleague from D66, Joost Sneller, we will even have many debates on that. Mr. Chairman. We do know something and I have to say that I think the composition is a bit one-sided. I have made a comment on this in the first term, and I shall therefore have it followed by a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government intends to set up a National Growth Fund in order to increase the structural earning capacity of the Dutch economy;]] [[Whereas concrete projects will be assessed by an assessment advisory committee to be set up;]] [[Whereas the composition of that committee is too one-sided and insufficiently diverse;]] [[calls on the Government to shape the composition of the Advisory Committee in such a way as to better reflect the diversity of Dutch society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u162	Mr. Chairman. I also talked about interest-free banking. I was not entirely aware that this was the HRA, the mortgage interest rebate. That's really something that goes with it, but there are just groups of people who want to bank interest-free. Some call it Islamic banking and you might indeed think: it will come naturally. In the meantime, we see that society is also Islamic in a number of ways. People don't shake hands anymore and you can also see that we're wearing facial clothing! But, Mr President, that is not what I mean. I am not going to table a motion on this now, because I still want to go round a number of banks and talk to some of my colleagues. I think it is right in principle to look at how we can accommodate the group of people who want to bank interest-free for reasons of principle or for religious reasons. So it's wider than just the mortgage interest deduction. Finally, Mr President. I also talked about the distribution of wealth. And what the Minister says is correct, because in the Netherlands, the wealth, especially in relation to other rich countries, is relatively well distributed. But 1% of the Dutch own 25% of their assets and 10% own 70% of their assets. At the same time, there are 400,000 children living in poverty and some of them do not get anything to eat before they go to school. I really think that contract is too big. We should not just look at how things are arranged abroad. We also need to look at what we want to do with the principle that it is unacceptable that there are Dutch people standing in line with the food banks. Actually, that's the same as with fat: we have enough, but sometimes it's in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u163	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Van Otterloo. He speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On a fully cleaned table, but without a cleaned version! "Cleaning" I always refer to a version that is spoken and not so much on a table. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the rulers for their reply. Indeed, I thought it was also some special General Financial Reviews. You could say "perhaps unbalanced by all the stirs that corona has given" because then it has something positive. But all the fixed values and standards that have been used in the past have therefore been called into question. We must look again at the future, because such an opportunity must not be missed. I do not think it is a great crisis in terms of being a nice crisis, but it brings us back to what we as a government represent and we as a parliament have to do with the government for the whole of society. We will have to look beyond the elections. We can have all kinds of nice election talk and we can offer people choices, but it's also about what really needs to happen afterwards. And we still need majorities to do that. In that respect, I must say that today I heard more of a beginning in thinking about private debt and public debt than the historian Rutte was willing to do, but he also looks more backwards than forwards. Because let's face it, debt is a problem in two ways. You have to pay them off once; you have to pay back what you borrow. In the past, however, public debt has been a problem mainly because of the interest burden. That is what colleagues have already said. We need to come up with new picket posts. I can't wait to see how far we're gonna get in there. We must look not only at the seizure of these sums on public spending, but also, above all, at the seizure of interest. That will be the major challenge for us, especially in the case of discount rates which are lower than economic growth and below inflation. Then you need to see what you're getting at. One thing we should not rule out is that you may not have to end up with Europe's lowest public debt, but that you can look more closely at how to bring the whole of Europe more to the same level. This means that we may want to move towards an average rather than an average, and that we may want to use that towards an average to give the money to the people. I am referring to shortening the personal balance sheet, taking over the private debt and then looking at how that should happen. I thought what Mr Stoffer said was very honest of him, but also a pavlov reaction. Otherwise, you're gonna end up in where are we gonna get the money from? You look at the budget, you see Health, you see Social Affairs, but behind all these amounts are people. There are provisions behind all these sums for people. So you are going to put the bill back there again for what we are doing now to maintain as much employment and economic strength as possible. So we will have to look more closely at that. In that respect, I am not reassured by the response to how you can ensure that the companies that are doing well and who have now benefited from it have also made their contribution, as is the case in any crisis. There are still too many shortcuts to avoid paying taxes and premiums. As regards the income position of older people, the Minister said that we have a small plus, but that there are also people who are losing their jobs. That is what we are very concerned about, that there are people who are losing their jobs. But it's also a break-up of the whole thing. Today there are again reports of 3% collective bargaining growth. This means that those who have a collective agreement increase, regardless of whether they receive a periodic increase, will receive a basic increase of 3%. You have people who are now either self-employed or employed, and you have the elderly, who have a prospect of 10% less pension. That makes it very difficult for the elderly to have confidence in the future. But she too, or I may say that we too must have confidence in the future. You can see that the tax system discriminates considerably according to age. If you look at the old-age discount, if you look at the tax discount, you can see that although the labour discount is rising somewhat, the old-age discount does not hold an equal footing with the increase in the labour discount. That's why my first motion. Mr. Chairman. You know that I have had a lot of speaking time left for the second term, but that is because I have completely against my custom in some motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u165	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u166	With those motions, I'm gonna pull the average back up here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the employment discount is increased by up to €428 and for low incomes by around €122;]] [[noting that the elderly discount is increased by up to €81;]] [[Whereas the standard practice has become to increase the employment discount much faster each year than the elderly discount;]] [[calls on the government to increase the employment rate and the elderly's discount to about the same extent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u167	For some time to come, we are not sure whether pensioners, for example, are going to be severely reduced at ABP and Health and Welfare, as early as 1 January. That's a threat. Then we can use the exceptional financial statement again, but it is still very uncertain. That is why we also have a motion for a resolution, and we are talking about everyone who wants to give the elderly a small allowance per month, also in view of the increase in the health premium, the increase in the nominal premium that goes beyond what the cabinet has proposed. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to increase income support to AOW (IO-AOW) by €10 per month,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u168	I'm gonna stay in the tax area for a while. We have talked about the capital levy, about how difficult it is. We look forward to the letter coming. I can assume that this letter will come before we deal with the Tax Plan, because it is not just about the future, but also about the past. It is also about solving the problems that have arisen from years of over-attacks, which have given people power. In addition, I had raised a special issue of those who did not want to invest their savings in shares, but wanted to have them in the bank, as a small entrepreneur, and then to keep that for their pension. They have to pay both a capital charge and, in some cases, negative interest rates on the money they have. So that means they get caught from both sides, so to speak. I therefore believe that serious attention should be paid to how to solve the problem with the entire capital charge in this way. Mr. Chairman. The so-called start-up scheme... I would also like to say this with the emphasis on "start-up arrangements', because it turns out that this is more of an age thing than the actual position. Because even if you have your own house, if you're under 35, you'll get it. Then there's the question of what exactly if you're doing it together. Is there a 1% transfer tax paid or is it dependent on what is being applied? We see big problems. We believe that justice is lacking as a whole if you look at the position on the housing market. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that start-ups in the housing market over 35 years of age are seriously disadvantaged by the government's plans for transfer tax;]] [[Whereas starters over 35 may have waited to buy a property or its overbidden when buying a property because of a study debt;]] [[Whereas house buyers under 35 years of age can benefit from a lower transfer tax, even if they already have a purchase house and/or belong to the lucky group which has been able to receive €100,000 tax-free from their parents in recent years;]] [[Considering that start-ups over 35 years of age also leave a home and thus contribute equally effectively to the flow of the housing market as start-ups under 35 years of age;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt from transfer tax start-ups in the housing market of all ages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u169	Finally, Mr President. I stay in the atmosphere of housing. In my first term, I also drew attention to the relationship between the landlord's tax and the lack of a specific housing for the elderly to fill the gap between home and nursing home. I'm talking about the hole created by closing the nursing homes. It is now five years since these nursing homes have been closed and no longer allowed to be filled. That whole number isn't filled up. There are also too few initiatives that have been supported. It is a very difficult principle: three to five small-scale facilities are needed to replace one nursing home and all these initiatives require a great deal of bureaucracy. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there has been a growing gap in appropriate group housing for older people since the closure of nursing homes;]] [[Whereas, since then, suitable (small-scale) alternative forms have been achieved but modestly;]] [[Whereas the large-scale provision of these facilities will enable the flow of the hidden housing market to be re-launched;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the construction of these facilities by means of specific discounts on the landlord levy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u170	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u171	Thank you very much. According to the list of speakers, Mr Baudet has the floor, but I do not see him in the Chamber. Then we will move on to the next speaker. That's Mr Krol. He speaks on behalf of the Krol Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My big question is: what problem is the National Growth Fund of EUR 20 billion actually the solution? The Minister wants to invest 4 billion a year in projects and innovation, but compared to investment by technology companies, this is all very little. A company like ASML alone invested around 17% of its turnover in R&D in 2019, of which 1.5 billion in the Netherlands. That's just one company. I tabled the amendment on corona purchasing power compensation in order not to set up the National Growth Fund, but instead to reverse 20 billion. That money would, we think, be much better placed directly in the wallet of Dutch people. €180 per month does help a lot for households, especially if it is for a whole year. This will give the economy a huge boost, especially if the debt problem is resolved properly. It is also unacceptable to us that the use of the Growth Fund should, to a large extent, take place outside Parliament. I shall therefore table two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u173	Sorry, I'm gonna give you an opportunity to interrupt first. Mr Sneller would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u174	I just heard a really crazy argument. The Minister would not be able to argue what is meant by the Growth Fund, while I think he has clearly explained everything about low growth and productivity growth. Then the exit was taken to ASML, which also invests a lot. But are private investment then the solution to the problem that Mr Krol sees? Or does he see that ASML is going to finance our infrastructure, education and research as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u175	Of course, I am very satisfied with what is happening in my backyard at ASML. I think it's nice that people spend so much money on that. If you're going to invest so much money, 20 billion, in something that we all don't see enough, while you can put it directly into the economy, then I think that the latter would be a much more sensible decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u176	So Mr Krol says: it's nice that ASML does private R&D. I couldn't agree more. But isn't it necessary to build public R&D and infrastructure? The democratic side emerged in Mr Krol's third argument, but I stuck with it at the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u177	No, I absolutely don't want to say that. I would just like to say that I would like to use that huge amount of money in a very different way, so that the citizen can find it in his wallet at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u178	Okay, but then we're just gonna invest, like the Cabinet wants, in R&D, in infrastructure and in knowledge development? That is the conclusion of Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u179	I also heard the Minister say clearly that you have two tracks. One has to happen, but I would like to use the 20 billion in a different way. I'll start with my motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u180	Just a moment. I see Mr Azarkan standing by the microphone. Does he want to interrupt? He's still hesitating. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current tax system has become too complex, too opaque and unfair;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands urgently needs a simpler and more transparent tax system;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for simplifying the current tax system, drastically simplifying the system of supplements, increasing working hours and increasing disposable income, and informing the Court of Justice of this before the next Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u182	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one of the 12 households in the Netherlands suffers from problems of debt;]] [[calls on the government to come up with a comprehensive and comprehensive plan to provide a way out of people with problematic debt, for example through a system of debt transfer from lenders to the Tax Administration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-IX-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u184	And thank you for your input, too. This brings to an end the second term of office. The directors have indicated that they need seven minutes for consideration. Distribution takes two minutes. So I'm suspending the meeting for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u185	I give the floor to the Minister of Finance for the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr President, thank you. Many thanks also to all Members for the comments made in the second term, for the motions and for the amendments. I have a few comments to make and I also have a minor repair from my first term. I shall then turn to the amendment and the motions in my area. Afterwards, both Secretary of State will discuss the motions that are left over for them. Mr. Chairman. I do not know if it is a sign of the quality of the debate, but the fact that we have now used up two and a half Presidents is worth remembering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u187	Apparently a debilitating existence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u188	Mr. Chairman. A number of comments on the Court's second term. I very much agree with Mrs De Vries' broad speech on economic growth and employment. I would like to draw a line on this, just as I would like to underline a few other things that have been said in the second term. With Mr Snels, I noticed a positive attitude towards the Growth Fund, not only in terms of why, but also wider. That certainly seems to me to be a basis for further discussion. In the direction of Mr Slootweg, I would like to say that precisely those two things that he took out, namely uncertainty and resilience, are two things that should help to determine the direction of the cabinet. That uncertainty will remain with us for a long time, whether we like it or not. I would like to remind Mr Alkaya that, should he have meant that the treasury would in any way play a role in controlling the virus, the medical side, which is really a complete misunderstanding. As a cabinet, we said: whatever is needed in the field of testing capacity, whatever is needed in the field of source and contact research, what is needed in the medical sense, we do not want to have a discussion about that. That's the first layer. I wanted to remind you of this because I was not entirely clear from his second term whether he was concerned about that. The second layer is what we are doing in the financial and economic sense. There is a slightly different balancing framework, but there too I have always wanted to say that you want to do what is important. That is where the sovereign debt has not been a bottleneck in the design of the plans, which is without prejudice to the fact that the sovereign debt is indeed a relevant fact and is indeed something that you are going to go along with in the future. But I thought it might be good to unravel it this way. I would like to say to Mr Sneller that I very much agree with his comment on the quality of public expenditure. We forget that sometimes. We talk very often, even today, about everything that is new and today there is something more new than at some other times that we meet. It's relatively little about the 300 billion we spend every year. My belief is that each of these euros is above all doubt when it comes to effectiveness. That's just reality. I see both rapporteurs nodding in the field of Insight in Quality. I very much agree with Mr Nijboer's point that employment is not the only one, but a very important one, even in the time ahead. Mr Van Raan mentioned the black swan and the zoonoses. I'd like to make it worse. I think it's true. I also said on Prince's Day that Taleb, the one who has targeted this concept in economic terms, said: this is not a black swan at all, because I saw it coming. I also indicated at the time, speaking for myself, but I don't think I was the only one in the Netherlands that I didn't see it coming. Mr. Chairman. At Mr Van Raan's motion I had written a few words, but I will come back to that in a moment. I would like to say to Mr Azarkan: thank you for clarifying that he spoke not so much about halal mortgages but more about interest-free banking. I just misunderstood. The good news, and the bad news, is that that issue of interest-free banking is solving itself. I would also like to emphasise that the cabinet, like myself, really believes that we should quickly return to a situation where we do give each other hands and no longer have to wear masks that cover each other's mouths. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Krol for their comments. I will deal with their motions and the amendment. Then there is one more thing that I was rightly reminded of. That is the percentage of the 30-year loan I mentioned in my mind towards Mr Nijboer. With the mention of 0.046, I was still too pessimistic. The fact is that it is 0.028, so again it is not quite 0, and that is the sadness of the Agency in my direction. But it is far enough behind the comma to be quite satisfied with it. At least I was when I saw the note come in. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the amendments. There were two amendments tabled by Mr Krol, which are of course linked. One amendment deals specifically with the Growth Fund. I must advise against that amendment, because we do not intend to invest that money in a different way now. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u189	That's under number six, if I'm right. The amendment in part No. 6.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mr President, in all honesty, it was only when I unpacked the present that I found out that there were two amendments at all. I thought it was one. Then the Secretary of State said there's actually two of them. One is about the Growth Fund and the other is about the tax rebate. Of course, they have a connection, but they both need to be appointed separately. If you say it's number six, I'll take it immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u191	The amendment in part No. 6 is not recommended. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u192	Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying: I have the motions numbered, but not with a specific piece number, so I do them in the order in which they passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u193	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u194	The first motion is Mr Mulder's motion. He himself was gilded that Mr Van Dijck wanted to come underneath. In the context of the debate, however, I must advise against this because the cabinet is really going to do what is needed and has put a very substantial part in addition to the standard package we have had over the last few months, especially in the area of 'work to work'. There are a lot of extra measures. The TVL is even being expanded. The suggestion in this motion is not correct, I think, so I must advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u195	The motion in part No. 7 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u196	The second motion tabled by Mr Mulder and Mr Van Dijck, on Europe and on what needs to be done with the recovery package, I must advise against. I would also point out that the PVV Group uses occasional cover for structural expenditure here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u197	The motion in part No. 8 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u198	On the motion in part No. 9 will consider the Secretary of State, as will the fourth motion. That brings me to the fifth motion, tabled by Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer. To be honest, I would like to see it in the colour bath of the wider debate. With that appreciation, I would ask the petitioners to hold the motion. I have said that I would like to send a letter at all on some of these matters. For me, there is a real point, made by, among other things, Faster, that we are not unduly delayed. So if one would like to wait for the vote on the motion until the moment of the letter, which we will send for the debate that we are apparently all looking forward to, then I would ask for it to continue. If Mr Alkaya wishes to put this coûte-que-coûte to the vote, I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u199	We shall then be holding it for a while, awaiting that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u200	At the request of Mr Alkaya, I propose his motion (35570-IX, No. 11), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u201	The motion in part No. 12 is for Secretary of State Van Huffelen. On the motion in part No. 13 has been a lot to do, I'll just confess to your room. It has been dragged away from the gates of hell, and I could give it a Chamber of Justice, provided I can give a very strict explanation. That's what I'm gonna do. If I may read the motion in such a way that the reconnaissance may take place in the course of 2021, but that we do our best to do so as soon as possible, then I can, after feverish consultation with the Minister for Legal Protection, give it to the Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u202	Do I see a goddamn nod? If not, I'm expecting someone at the interrupting microphone right now. I see a nod in agreement. The motion in part No. 13 gets judgment, Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u203	I'm sure the members of the cabinet will forgive the lack of transparency. The motion in part No. 14 is at the Lower House itself. The motion in part No. 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u204	The motion in part No. So 14 gets judgment, huh, Room? No, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u205	It's up to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u206	It's up to the Chamber itself. No judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u207	It's a speech-out. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 15. On the contrary, I wanted to argue that there is a lot more than just GDP. In that sense, I can see where the motion came from. There, I think, we also have points of contact in the debate. But I have also really wanted to hold on to that, and I believe that this is important for a large number of groups in the Chamber, because it is not without GDP, because you want to ensure that it is also about economic growth. This motion, with in the operative part the request to replace GDP growth with the aim to increase broad prosperity, is really a bridge too far. I must therefore discourage the motion, but I am committed to giving the context to it, because then it might be a slightly less cold shower than it would be for a mere "dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u208	The motion in part No. 15 is not recommended. There is another interruption by Mr Nijboer. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u209	I thought the minister and I were getting close. In the answer it was rather crude: it is only GDP. On Sunday afternoon I read all these hundreds of questions and it was every time: GDP is the only criterion. In the debate, the Minister was actually broader. A part of the broad prosperity is GDP. You're not saying that GDP can get out of the window in terms of prosperity. No, it's really an essential part of that. It is one of the components, as well as nature quality and well-being. I am not against economic growth at all; I am not against economic growth at all. So I think we're approaching each other a little bit in the run-up to the debate. Perhaps I should also hold this motion, and I should have a look at my colleague, because it makes no sense to start a debate with a closed door, then to have the door ajar and then to get it back in your face during the debate, while we were just moving in the direction that I liked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u210	I've been thinking about what I've said. I think Mr Nijboer understood that correctly. I just want to highlight that GDP growth is throwing out the window... Mr Nijboer is right: GDP growth is also contained in most definitions of broad prosperity. However, I would like to point out that this is really an issue for the cabinet. If he says 'I am waiting for the wider debate and I am holding the motion', then of course I can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u211	The motion is being held. The wording may be reviewed in the context of a follow-up discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u212	The motion in part No. 16 is also up to the Chamber itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u213	Judgement is up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u214	Yes, to judge the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u215	To judge the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u216	The motion in part No. 17 by Mr Van Raan is a sympathetic motion, but she has something of putting a noose around the neck of my successor or successor. It is good to add that we have, of course, been discussing and sharing with the Chamber the Monitor Brede Welvaart and the cabinet response to it for a number of years. We are also constantly taking additional steps. If I were to interpret the second part of the operative part in such a way that the anchoring takes place via the monitor and the cabinet response which, incidentally, appear on Accountability Day; Mr Van Raan and I always have a debate on this issue, then I can give the motion 'judge Chamber'. Moreover, the good news is that I understand that the Study Group on Budget Space will also address the broad prosperity and the policy cycle. So with that package and with that dress-up, too, not to put my successor or successor in a completely impossible position.... I can give the motion "judge chamber."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u217	Or yourself, but that's another point. The motion in part No. 17 gets, with a certain exegesis, judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u218	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Van Raan puts his thumb in the air. I think that's a sign that he can agree with my appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u219	Sure. We'd already seen that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u220	The motion in part No. 18 is for the Secretary of State. The same applies to the motion in part No. 19. The motion in part No. 20 by Mr Azarkan concerns the composition of the committee and diversity. I would like to point out once again that the cabinet and I personally attach great importance to all kinds of diversity, with the conviction that diverse composite teams really work better. At the same time, if you look at the composition of the committee, at least there is a very good balance between the different areas of expertise and between men and women. And I would like to stress once again that we have found truly 18 carat people willing to sit on the committee. I would like to use that explanation to discourage the motion, but I am encouraged to keep a close eye on that theme of diversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u221	The motion in part No. 20 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u222	I understand the motion in part No. 21 from the political point of view of Mr Van Otterloo. It's about the employment discount and the old-age discount. I have tried to highlight before that there is more to be said, including in the fiscal domain, about what is also beneficial for the elderly, but at the same time I also understand Mr Van Otterloo's concerns. But in this way, I cannot bring the motion together with the views of the cabinet. So I have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u223	The motion in part No. 21 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u224	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 22 has the disadvantage that no cover is provided for it. And that would be quite a sum. So I'm gonna have to dissuade him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u225	The motion in part No. 22 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u226	The motion in part No. 23 is for the Secretary of State. The motion in part No. 24 by Mr Van Otterloo deals with amenities, flow and a hidden housing market and then asks for a specific discount on the landlord's tax. As important as this theme is, that's a bridge too far. The cabinet has already wanted to take steps towards more building, among other things by reducing the landlord's tax. I therefore agree with part of the direction and the argument, but the measure and the lack of clause is going wrong here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u227	The motion in part No. 24 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u228	The motion in part No. 25 is for the Secretary of State. In the motion in part No. 26 Mr Krol is calling for an integral and comprehensive plan that sounds very comprehensive to provide a way out of people with problematic debts. I would reject the suggestion that such a plan would not exist. The cabinet does a lot in the area of poverty and debt. If Mr Krol wishes to continue the motion, I am prepared to ensure that it is involved in the budgetary treatment of Social Affairs and Employment. Then the Secretary of State can be even more explicit about all the things the Cabinet does in this area. But in this form, I cannot say yes to it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u229	The Minister gave Mr Krol the opinion on the motion in part No. Twenty-six to be held. I see Mr Krol's agreeable nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u230	Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my second term. May I once again thank the Members very much? I am thinking of the Tinbergen window and also of his comments on the alarm clock, you think: what is it about? In any case, we have tried to make a contribution to saving time and thus money. I would like to emphasise once again all the fine things that have been said, and all the great things that have been adopted from the past. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Sneller that we must take back the Maginot line, because what he said is partly correct in my view. In my memory, the problem with that Maginotline was not so much that those planes could fly over it, but more that you could walk around it and... other than the French army leadership thought.... could also invade France via the Ardennes or even further west through the low countries. And that's exactly what happened. Mr President, I thought I could allow this, looking at the former President, who felt that we should hurry. But I had stayed so far within the time limit that I thought I could reconcile the alarm clock and the Maginotline in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u231	Thank you to the Minister of Finance, also for the reflection on the Maginot Line. Also always useful to think about such a bastion. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance, with particular reference to the task of Taxation and Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u232	Thank you, Mr President. I owe some answers. First of all, to Mr Sneller's question about fossil subsidies in the annex to the Millions Note. We will be committed to doing so. Let's see what's possible. Then Mr Sneller also had a question about Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. It is good that I asked and bought some time, because it turns out that during the debate on the Spring Note, the Minister promised a letter on Article 2. It'll come to your room at the Navy Note. Which brings me to the motions. The motion in part No. 9 by Mr Edgar Mulder and Mr Tony van Dijck with the request to waive the flight tax I must advise against. It's premature. I have said that the cabinet is considering the date of introduction. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u233	The motion in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u234	Then Mr Snels asked in the motion for a resolution for item No. 10 to transparency around figures of companies, also in response to Ter Haar's report. It is a good thing that I have also spoken back on this, because that means that we can give this 'judgement chamber' motion. Whether it will be at the beginning of 2021, I am not quite sure, because it is a complicated issue. And whether it should lead to different legislation, we will all see. But in principle, the Cabinet is prepared to investigate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u235	The motion in part No. 10: Judgement Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u236	Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the motion in part No. 18 members Stoffer, Slootweg and Bruins. This motion also gets "judge chamber." The question is whether the committee can also look specifically at households with children. The answer is, judge Chamber. It seems to us a good idea and I will include it in the task.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u237	The motion in part No. 18: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u238	The Stoffer motion in part No. 19 is a bit complicated. I do not find the motion unsympathetic and I understand the question. But we are always trying to give the complete picture in the case of credit transfers. That's the interesting thing about the billing: that you see the total. I think Mr Stoffer understands this and understands it. What we could do is to give more specific attention to things that have a particularly high impact on the earners, because that is what we are talking about, of course, about.... and about the capacity of families. If we can interpret the motion in this way... But it doesn't say that, so I advise against the motion in this form, because it burdenes the process too much, I think, and also removes the integral image. But if I promised Mr Stoffer that we would look at the really big measures, and if he were satisfied with them, that might make us both happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u239	A response from Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u240	The latter was my intention. I thank the Secretary of State for the commitment and withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u241	Since the motion for a resolution (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u242	Mr Van Otterloo asked: can we get the letter on box 3 history for the treatment of the Tax Plan? That's the idea, yes. I'm working on it, if we're almost speaking. The point of the savers will undoubtedly come back to that. Not so much in the letter, I think, but in the treatment of the Tax Plan. Once again, the measure on tax-free rates has really been designed to ensure that small savers and small investors are spared, so I think we shall come back to that. The Van Otterloo motion in part No. 23, which is about transfer tax, I must advise against in the light of the debate. I tried to make it clear in the debate that we had to define start-ups in an imperfect way, but that this phrase "calls on the government to exempt start-ups in the housing market of all ages from transfer tax' is simply not feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u243	The motion in part No. 23 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u244	That brings me to the motion in part No. 25 by Mr Krol. I am going to discourage this motion, because I believe that we have already carried out this motion, namely with the fiscal building blocks. There's a "I'd say" "fist-fist-fist-fist-fist report." On top of that is another report on Kansrijk's tax policy. There are so many reports that some people are now asking me to make a report on the report. I said no to that, too. I would therefore also advise against this motion. Actually, we've already done it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u245	The motion in part No. 25 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u246	Then I owe you one. One amendment turned out to be two amendments. The Minister has now discouraged the amendment to delete the National Growth Fund. I will also advise against the sister or brother of that amendment, namely to use that money to reduce the general tax rebate. I would like to say to Mr Krol that this is not until the Tax Plan. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you for the answers and the assessments of the motions. Now the Secretary of State for Finance has the floor with special attention to Fees and Customs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to respond to the motion in part No. 12 by Mr Alkaya and Mr Leijten. It is our cabinet's wish, of course, to ensure that as many parents as possible are helped quickly in the context of solving the problems with the allowances. We want to help parents in the most acute and poignant positions for Christmas. That's what we want to do for the holidays, so actually before December 1st. That's why we're working on making payments to those parents. Where it can be done we can do that as much integral as possible and where it cannot be done by making a smaller partial payment. We have also created an emergency facility to help parents in specific situations, for example because they cannot buy their medicines, because there are problems with their children or otherwise. You propose to add something to that and do more. When we made the planning, of course, we already knocked on all sides, felt and considered whether we could do that. I think it is particularly important that we be the first to help people who are in very difficult situations. You are asking for something to be added. I like that, but I am also concerned that we are being delayed by parents in acute situations, if we are to help other parents again. I really wouldn't want that. On 15 October we have a debate on planning and on which groups of parents we are going to deal with when. My proposal is to hold the motion until that debate. In the meantime, we will continue to help as many parents as possible, because I agree with you: the more we can help, the better it is. But I would like to keep the order, by first helping the most acute parents and then only the parents who have experienced a lot of bad things, but are no longer in a very poignant situation at the moment. So my request is to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u249	The motion in part No. 12: Request to hold. Mr. Alkaya, can you give us an answer on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u250	Yeah, I think so. I hear the Secretary of State say she shares our concerns about the parents who are not currently covered by the 300 or 600. So there's thousands of them. I assume she will look into the debate to see if there is anything more to be done. I get it: no one wants to delay that first group of parents and families. I am holding the motion pending the debate. In that debate, we would like to hear how the Secretary of State intends to see if there is anything more to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u251	At the request of Mr Alkaya, I propose his motion (35570-IX, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u253	Thank you. Thank you also for your reflection on this motion. That brings us to the end of the second term of office and the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-01-tweedekamer-7.u254	The votes on the motions are next week. The vote on the amendments will take place in December at the same time as the vote on the Finance budget and the Tax Plan. I would like to thank you all very much for your contributions, for your presence, for your sympathy and for your commitment. I wish you another joyful work evening.
