ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the debate on the ratification or approval of the CETA Convention between the Netherlands and Canada. We had an extensive first term from the Chamber yesterday. Today we begin with the first term of office. First of all, I would like to welcome her to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs will come a little later because of other obligations, but the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation can answer all the questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u2	I'll give the Minister the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I have a practical question, perhaps to the messengers: could someone please raise my table a little higher? Thank you. The distance is important for reading the letters. Thank you very much. Good morning. I am indeed talking to your Chamber today about the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement of the European Union with Canada, better known as CETA, and the Strategic Partnership Agreement, the political part of which is the responsibility of my colleague Mr Blok. Before I go on to start my speech, I would like to outline the structure of my speech so that people know when specific questions come back in the answer. First, the preamble and the introduction. Then I have a cup of level playing field and CETA. These include a number of topics. The second big cup is production standards, including food safety. The third big cup is animal welfare. The fourth is competitiveness, particularly in agriculture. The fifth point is sustainability and the environment. The sixth block is investment protection, also known as ICS. The seventh block deals with the governance of CETA, i.e. the committees and the processes surrounding it and issues of transparency. The eighth cup is other. A number of specific questions have been asked and I will come back to them, for example on corporate social responsibility. Then I come to the amendment tabled by Mrs Van Weerdenburg, supported by Mr Baudet and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u4	Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u5	Mr. Bishop. Excuse me. Is everything clear in terms of cups? Today we are talking about major issues: the future of international trade and our relations with an important transatlantic ally; there were many references to it yesterday in times of geopolitical turbulence and great uncertainty. It is also about values and value communities and how we see the future of our country: open to the world, firmly embedded in the European Union, our European home, and ready for a new phase in the establishment of economic cooperation with reliable partners outside the European Union, at a time when we have begun the final phase of negotiations between the EU and the United Kingdom on the Brexit. Trade agreements, such as CETA in particular, are not on their own. It is not just about increasing markets or market shares, but also about exploiting comparative advantages that free trade offers and forging partnerships in a very practical sense, through knowledge exchange, through cooperation, through technology exchange, through students, also through migration in this case, and through high-quality knowledge and investment. In the end, in this way, we strengthen an equal value community. We also guarantee the rules of the game when it comes to international trade and international organisation, based on rules of law and universal values. And we say this, of course, in the city of The Hague, which is so symbolic for many countries and for international law. You know, of course, that this order is under enormous pressure. This is often the subject of debate here, including in other committees. It is under pressure from state capitalism................................................................................................................................................................................................ World order and world order are therefore not self-evident. The EU is aware of this reality. Our market power remains our greatest strength for the time being. We are the largest single market in the world in terms of GNP. Access to the market is, of course, an extremely effective means of positioning yourself around values, but economically and politically in the world. In our ideal image, the EU's values-based regulatory frameworks through the World Trade Organisation also have a global application. Under a well-functioning World Trade Organisation, as Europeans, we can also implement, enforce and protect our standards through our rules and that can lead to an upgrade. Moreover, our companies, whether they are large or small, can do business worldwide without problems. That was the ideal image, but we are very far from this state of affairs. The World Trade Organisation remains very important to us. Is she in heavy weather? Yes. Is the dispute resolution committee, referred to yesterday by Mr Baudet, in difficulty? Yes. There are many times when we need to stand up for the consolidation, protection and reform of a global trade policy and the rules or systems associated with it. That is the moment when you have to say yes to the important treaty with Canada that is before us. Canada is an equal country, a country that has the same principles. It is at so many times a democratic, functioning and important ally, especially if you compare it with the Chinese input via the Belt and Road Initiative or if you look at the recent decisions of the US Government on protectionist measures that protect our own industry at the expense of consumers, at the expense of world order and ultimately at the expense of world trade and economic growth. It is precisely for this reason that CETA should be seen as an important moment, an important weighting and a modern trade agreement of shared values and ambitions in the areas of sustainable development, the environment and labour protection. In CETA, Canada and the EU also confirm their commitments under the Paris Climate Agreement. The Netherlands is open and progressive within the EU, but together with EU countries. When it comes to innovation, we're number two in the world and not just when you're looking at agribusiness. We are at the forefront of the modernisation of trade agreements. All credit for that also to my predecessor Lilianne Ploumen! For years there has been a majority of the Chamber on these issues. The Netherlands has played a crucial role in the implementation of this Treaty for a reason. We have a responsibility to bring this treaty to a successful conclusion in the context of the geopolitical and geoeconomic tensions I have outlined, and also because of the opportunities and shared values. Together with Canada, the EU can and must take the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u6	I hear the Minister talking about a global world order. If you look at the United Nations, you can see that the vast majority of the countries there are non-westerns or even anti-westerns. So we're a minority. If we do something democratic in the world, this means we lose. You can also see this from the results of the World Trade Organisation, which I said a number of things about yesterday, as well as from the International Criminal Court. You just see that what we originally made from Western glasses is now becoming non-westerns, because we're just a huge minority in the world. We are most successful, but we are in the minority in absolute numbers. What does the Minister think we're going to achieve if we pull things more to the international level? Doesn't that mean we're losing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u7	That question is too broad, because in the first instance the United Nations is a membership organisation. It's an intergovernmental organization. This is a European Union treaty with Canada on trade and values. If I limit it to that, we are clearly looking at the EU's political and economic strength together with Canada. The rules of the game have been internationally agreed for a long time, and so far the Western economies have had the upper hand, including in establishing those rules. For example, when it comes to human rights treaties, the debate is often directed at non-Western Member States that say that there is no universality, because it is Western. We say: no, rights are universal, there are agreements about them, and that is why these treaties are so important. They are also under pressure; that is what you see in Western democracies, or, when you look at the rise of illiberal democracies. So the argument does not apply; this is a widely supported trade agreement. We are indeed members of the European Union and I belong to a party which, as Mr Baudet knows, is committed to this and will always do so. Because the added value, politically and economically, born from the Second World War, remains extremely important, right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u8	Two things. The Second World War has nothing to do with the EU; the EU has been invented well before the Second World War, so that is really bullshit. And what the nations wanted was a virtually European Union. That is precisely what we are liberated from; national sovereignty has been restored after that continental state alliance that they have been trying to achieve. Then, among other things, by people who were also high in that regime, the EU institutions tried to achieve this. So that's what I really have to disagree with the Minister. But I'm going back to the point anyway. You say, as I say through the chairman, that we must protect it. It is under pressure, and we say to those countries: no, these are universal values. You can say that, but you lose it, because you're a minority. And, of course, it's hard to enforce things within the UN. However, a soft law is being developed, so there are constant statements and pressures on other countries, and we have the International Court of Justice, the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u9	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u10	This whole international movement means turning ourselves over to a hostile majority. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u11	I just don't agree. The world view of Mr Baudet is completely different. We know what we stand for as a rule of law. Here's a reference to shady powers. We are going in a very different direction in this debate; this is about CETA, which is an investment and trade agreement. I stand before the European Union, and indeed, when it comes to the European Coal and Steel Community, I go back to the formal moment of creation, and that was indeed after the Second World War. Furthermore, a lesson in history is always nice, but not during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mr Baudet, of course, disputes the universality of a number of issues that have been discussed for a very long time, about human rights and so on. In that we really differ as a party. Only, in its introduction, the Minister seems to assume that the protection of multinationals, multinational companies, would also be one of those universal values that we should protect in the global world order. Does the Minister recognise that this is really something else, and that the view on the protection of such multinationals is also changing in the West?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u13	The latter, I think. But the first thing I'm saying is, we haven't even started yet. Mr Alkaya talks all the time about multinationals; others talk all the time about big business. I have to say, I haven't heard that kind of term in a long time. But the good thing is, we haven't started yet. No, it's not a treaty that targets a particular category of economy companies. It is far from that, and you will not find it. It is about trade, protection and market access. We will come to that later: the percentage of companies benefiting from CETA currently, at least from the Netherlands, is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u14	It's the Minister who's starting very big. She starts her story with the changing world order and she says it's under pressure. So I'm not the one who's pulling it so wide; the minister's pulling it so wide. That is why my question is: if we start this wide, does the Minister's view include the protection of multinationals? Because according to the SP, this is really something quite different from the universal values we share, such as human rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u15	No group of companies, large or small, is excluded from the Convention. This would also go against the rights that companies can derive. It is about companies; it is about investments. I did not mention the word multinationals, as in Mr Alkaya's first statement, and this is not a treaty aimed at multinationals either. I realise that, in the public debate outside it, it is often pretending that this is only for multinationals; it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u16	I would also like to make a comment on the Minister's introduction. Because what really bothers me is that Canada is presented as a homogeneous block: it's a nice and cozy country, and they freed us, and we share the same values, so this treaty is a good idea. In Canada people live and work, who share the values the minister claims to represent: human rights, climate and the environment. Those people, those Canadian people, say, "Don't do this, because this treaty goes against the fragile values that we share. Why does the Minister pretend that there is one large homogeneous group that says that this is a good idea because we share the same values, while the people who stand up for the fragile values ask us and their own parliament not to conclude this treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u17	It's not an or-or. The European Union has negotiated with the Canadian Government, which has been elected by its own people. If you're negotiating, at the moment it's not a matter of guessing what the opposition is. It is up to the Government of Canada to deal with it and weigh it. That's not up to us. We also hear protests here, of course. We hear a lot of worries and get letters. However, there are also many people you do not hear and who do support this treaty, including in the Netherlands. They might not be on the street. It's all important. It's part of the weighting, but that's up to the Canadian population. As a government in this case, we assume the position of the other government, because Canada is an ally on many factors. Canada is also a similar country with regard to many criteria, for example if you look at the OECD or other methods of measuring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thank you. Then I will confirm once again that we have long been equal partners and have common interests and shared values on democratic principles, human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and good governance. Those are important criteria. A modern trade treaty is not just about tariffs and quotas for the government. Of course it is about the volume of trade, but also about how we can trade. CETA, the Convention with Canada, is about cooperation to achieve better standards for the environment, animal welfare, working conditions and climate objectives. Are we there yet? No. Is it a way of working together to get better? Yes. Some of you have expressed concerns about aspects of this treaty. The concerns relate to products, production standards and the question of whether we are not opening the tap in the search for circular and sustainable agriculture, I am not quoting you, but what we have read for unfair competition for our farmers. There are concerns about the investment aspects of this agreement, where foreign investors are favoured over Dutch investors or where large companies may be favoured versus smaller companies. There is also concern that the government will no longer dare to change its policy for fear of major claims under CETA. This is a gross summary of some of the concerns or elements that also live in the public debate. I do not want Members of Parliament to feel literally quoted, because that is not the case. I'm going to deal with those concerns now. I will say as my starting point and conclusion that CETA is not blissful, and nobody has said so, but that this treaty is a solid basis for increasing our common prosperity, for protecting public interests, for protecting vulnerable sectors where necessary in our agriculture and for substantial progress in cooperation in areas of sustainable development, including, of course, the pursuit of the Paris Agreement. Then the last point at my opening. CETA is not the beginning of a trade relationship between the EU and Canada, because even without it, Canada has been trading and trading with Canada for decades and investment is taking place. This will also continue in the event of this treaty failing. The treaty is a framework. It is not a frame, but a framework that facilitates trade and cooperation. This is also the framework in which we strive together for higher values and standards. The Netherlands and Canada have an intensive trade and investment relationship. Dutch exports to Canada have more than tripled over the past decade and the total trade surplus with Canada has increased from 2.5 billion euros to 3.2 billion euros over the period 2016 to 2018. In this case, agriculture is 4% of that trade volume. That is an interesting fact, even if you see that all the other sectors where opportunities lie for the Netherlands and Canada are not actually mentioned in this debate. So 96% of the trade volume is non-agricultural. I'd like to pass that on as an important fact. What changes does CETA have to do with this? Trade between the Netherlands and Canada has, of course, grown since the provisional application of the Convention. We heard various considerations about this yesterday. Trade has certainly become easier and barriers have been removed. For example, unnecessary double testing will be abolished. This is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, because the costs and administrative obstacles are obstacles. These even take away the lust and energy to think about crossing the border to Canada, while there may be opportunities there. A lot has been said yesterday that Canadian import tariffs for Dutch cheese under CETA have fallen from 245% to 1%. That is, of course, one of the reasons why Dutch cheese is suddenly on the shelves in Canada, I hope; I have not seen it myself. CETA removes 99% of all tariffs on imports from the EU. This trade agreement gives Dutch companies new or better access to a market of 35 million people. There is a lot of potential in this relationship, as an equal partner on the road to a sustainable and circular economy, and with a market that has not yet been developed. Now I move on to the cubes, first level playing field and CETA. In fact, we come up with suggestions or questions about multinationals and the statement that they would gain from the small farmer, step up on higher standards, unfair competition for farmers, I say services and the right to regulate. Some have asked for the level playing field between Canada and the EU in the fields of labour, animal welfare and the environment and the maintenance of European standards for food safety and consumer protection. There are also questions about the enforceability of the sustainability provisions in the Convention, whether they are adequately regulated. First, the level playing field between the EU and Canada. Canada is of course an inclusive, modern society with a high sustainability standard and a robust legal system. We shouldn't forget that. I also sometimes got the idea yesterday that the Canadian representation is not in the Chamber at the moment, that we were talking about a very different country than Canada, if it was described as such. But there are differences between the EU and Canada; we must also recognise that. It is of course about countries and how they want to decide how to manage their affairs. Some of you are quite certain about this, including the Netherlands. We should not stare blindly at these differences either. The competitiveness of the Netherlands depends mainly on innovation and productivity. There are also differences within the internal market when it comes to working conditions, pay and animal welfare standards. This affects the competitiveness of Dutch companies and farmers, but for Dutch companies and farmers, the single market is still the most successful market, despite these qualitative differences and sometimes price differences. There is no doubt about our standards. Questions were put by Mrs Diks, Mr Voordewind, Mr Alkaya, Mr Jetten and Mr Bishop. Mrs Diks' first question, I believe that it was put this way, is whether I understand that there is frustration that this cabinet will always win multinationals over the small farmer. I have already referred to the fact that CETA is not a sort of Rotary or a treaty club for the alleged big business. It's not just multinationals that benefit from CETA. In fact, in this case for the Netherlands, the small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from CETA. Of course, it is also larger companies that benefit from a reduction in tariffs. We don't have to be naive about that. But we don't just have a sector as a target group or the size of a company. SMEs are improving by abolishing import tariffs, as I said, or falling, or by agreeing additional quotas to protect sensitive sectors in the Netherlands or elsewhere in the EU. The dairy sector benefits most because Canadian quotas for cheese have doubled, as we have already said. Of course, this does not apply to multinationals. The horticultural sector also benefits greatly from tariff liberalisation, since import tariffs for roses and chrysanthemums from Canada fell from 10.5% and 7% to 0% respectively in four years. Furthermore, under the CETA Joint Committee, there is an agreement to see how the wishes of small and medium-sized enterprises can be further supported and the agreement that contact points should be set up to take those companies with them to make the most of this Convention. This is also a target of the cabinet in the proactive trade agenda. Information for small and medium-sized enterprises, we often talk about it in trade agreements, of course remains a concern. Often companies do not yet know what their rights are and where they can go. So we are also committed to the fact that more and more information is being shared from both the EU and the Netherlands, so that those who can take advantage of and develop opportunities can actually make use of it. Then there is the question by Mr Alkaya, Mrs Diks and Mr Bishop about unfair competition. Can I imagine that farmers' organisations do not think it is fair and have therefore turned against CETA? Yes, we've talked about this before. But in general, CETA has a positive effect on Dutch agriculture. You also mention the differences in regulation. The impact of regulatory differences on competitiveness is much less than is assumed. I understand. When you compare it, you think it's gonna be bad for us. That is not the case, even if you look at the economic capacity of the Netherlands. I mentioned the dairy sector. I imagine people are worried when you hear and read a lot about the trade agreement with Canada in the public media and social media, where there is often one voice. I would, too, if I read that almost everything goes wrong and that there is unfair competition. Many suggestions have been made, but the facts do not bear this. It is also important that the agreements on agriculture in CETA are balanced. The offensive and defensive interests of Dutch farmers have been taken into account. As you know, there is a phased import of tariff-free quotas for pigs and beef from Canada. Sensitive sectors, eggs, egg products and poultry are completely excluded from liberalisation under CETA. Quotas should only be used if there is an irrefutable risk that it is of course important to demonstrate that no growth hormones have been used during the production process. No pork has yet been imported by the Netherlands. Since the provisional entry into force of CETA, much more has been exported. I see Mrs. Diks waiting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u20	I was a little curious, all of us, to hear the Minister's commitment on this subject, especially since in all these months we have lived here, if I may say so, little has changed in the defence structure of the cabinet. It's actually been from the beginning: "It's all good. What are you worried about? It will lead to much more trade, to much more profit. It's only good for the Netherlands. It's good for Europe. What a whining from the opponent." Then, of course, there are two things going on. You may not have explained it correctly in all these months. Then I have the next question. Will the Minister explain to me how it is possible that all these organisations, 70 organisations, consisting of a motley coalition of farmers' organisations, pig farmers, horticultural associations, trade unions, civil society organisations, political parties...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u21	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u22	So they've been worried about this for a long time. I find it so tiring, I'd almost say, that we keep hearing that if you don't agree with CETA, you probably don't get it. That's a very bad defense, because what the cabinet should do...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u23	The Minister has the floor. The interruptions need to be more concise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u24	...is explaining why it's good for all these organizations. Apparently, the Minister has not been able to do so in all these months. Can you give it a quick try?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u25	I'm gonna go back in history. Of course, there was already a huge, continuous campaign on TTIP and then on CETA. So there's nothing new about that. That has nothing to do with my taking office as a minister. Indeed, there has been a continuous campaign, with a polite I let it be kept uncomplete representation of the facts surrounding CETA. These are very difficult treaties. Trade agreements are complex, very technical and difficult to grasp. But there is always an image that I think is actually about globalisation. I also recognise those concerns about the negative effects of globalisation. Are we still protected? Are you okay? How do we get into the market? But this treaty is modern, sustainable and balanced. And the facts show that the Dutch sensitive markets are well shielded and that, where necessary, letters and AO's accompanying measures have shown that there has been a disproportionate negative effect. We don't know yet. At the moment the picture is in favour of the Netherlands. So I'm having a hard time pretending I'm not. Care is one thing. Explaining facts well is another. Indeed, the cabinet will obviously have to explain more, but sometimes it is also a question of whether, in the case of the Chamber, one wants to hear the explanation and change course itself. We've already seen a change of course, the treaty was the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u26	The word "ghost story" also fell a few times yesterday. In fact, the Minister is a bit like this: they are all ghost stories and what are you still worried about? I feel that we are actually being told fairy tales. The image that it will all end well with this treaty and that it is in principle not yet a disadvantage, is actually so naive that I would really like to describe it as a fairy tale. I have another question for the Minister. How has she been in contact with all these organizations that are so concerned about this in recent months? Has she tried to convince those 70 organizations of her views?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u27	An interesting fact: in anthropology fairy tales are actually scary stories to show children off in the real world. So fairy tales aren't what you think, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u28	It was more the category of "they lived happily ever after."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u29	Okay, but there's a nice anthropological explanation about fairy tales. More importantly, we have facts. There are agreements in the treaty. Tariff quotas have been agreed. There is a commitment to accompanying measures. There's a Joint Committee. There are reports about it. It is difficult for me to draw a different picture from what is currently being done by the Netherlands, the European Union and Canada. We have slowly phased out a very long stretch of protection and tariff quotas. We have clarity about product and quality protection and about standards and consumer protection. These are all EU requirements at the border. So a lot of what's circulating is just not true. It is very difficult for the cabinet to think that we should change course on the basis of things that we do not recognize and have not investigated. Furthermore, there has been continuous contact, also in the run-up to the signature of CETA. A lot of consultation and a lot of treaties. During this period there was mainly talk with municipalities and other high-level organisations. We organized information nights. Through the Association of Dutch Municipalities, municipalities have been registered and called. Officials have gone on the road. Especially from the municipalities came the concern about the right to regulate and whether the government can adopt legislation and regulations at all. All these points are being looked at all the time. Indeed, 100% commitment, not 100% result when it comes to changing position, but that is not due to the lack of commitment of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u30	I felt that the Minister involved one of the questions I had asked in her reply. It may still be reflected on it. I heard her say that the impact of the additional demands made by the Dutch government on all kinds of production chains and so on is far less detrimental than it is supposed to be. However, my question went a little deeper, namely whether it is not a double standard to impose all kinds of additional requirements on agriculture while at the same time giving more room for imports of products which do not have to meet the same cultivation and production requirements. I referred to the threatening Green Deal and to the Dutch head of European legislation...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u31	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u32	...and the Energy Agreement and the Climate Agreement. So it's not about the effect that matters to me, it's about morality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u33	Morality is of a higher order but of course it is also pursued by the government in its own conduct and decision-making. So I recognize the intention of what Mr Bishop says, but I will come back to it in heading four, competitiveness agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u34	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u35	Then there's a question from Mrs. Diks. Is it fair to let our farmers invest millions and then open the supposed back door? As I said earlier, it's a bit of a repetition of moves, the provisional application of CETA has not shown that it's going to be a race to the bottom or that there's unfair competition for Dutch farmers. Dutch exports of agricultural products are still significantly larger than those of Canada. The Dutch farmers also seem to be able to bear the costs arising from complying with the requirements imposed on them by the regulations, but in another part of the debate on circular agriculture and the circular paper of the Minister for Agriculture I shall come back to that later. We set the quality standards for ourselves. It is about the internal market. Of course, Dutch farmers export a lot within the EU. Dutch farmers compete through the front door. It is not the case that Canadian products meet other quality standards. The guarantees on the outside of the EU remain in terms of product quality standards and consumer protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u36	Maybe a point of order. It is a little unclear to me whether the Minister answers the questions per person. Or does she go off the cubes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u37	There's eight blocks, and we're gonna finish it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u38	The Minister always refers to those who have asked a question, but we would talk about animal welfare and standards in block four and we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u39	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u40	What am I supposed to do with the remark made by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u41	The question was about the alleged unfair competition through the back door. I didn't necessarily mention animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u42	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u43	My cubes are clear. I'd like to repeat them one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u44	No, please don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u45	It wasn't serious either, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u46	I hope it doesn't count as an interruption, but the Minister mentioned production standards. Is that what she's saying or is it product standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u47	No, product standards. Thanks for the correction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u48	We don't count this one. The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u49	To the questions about production standards, about how to produce, I'll come back. Mr Alkaya, Mrs Diks and Mr Bishop have asked questions about unfair competition. I think I just answered it. Can I imagine that many farmers' organisations don't think that's fair? The Cabinet shares the concerns. We are a cabinet for the Netherlands, for everyone on Dutch soil, for Dutch citizens, to offer their protection, security and opportunities. And opportunities are also offered by sustainable trade. This is what the government's proactive trade agenda is aimed at. This kind of trade agreement fits in very well with that. I have mentioned earlier the other aspects of sectoral protection and the advantages for the horticultural sector and the dairy sector through tariff liberalisation. I would also mention the phased imports of tariff-free quotas for pigs and beef from Canada. Sensitive sectors such as eggs, egg production and poultry remain completely excluded. We also named pork. Mr Voordewind asked: can we conclude a trade agreement without sacrificing our high standards? Do these standards also apply to farmers from outside the Netherlands? Yes, all products exported to the EU must comply with European standards, such as food safety, labelling and consumer protection requirements. This also applies to Canadian products. CETA will not change this. This is often a concern that lives. We understand. We name it a lot. I am pleased with the question so that we can formally remove it again. The standards are not lowered by CETA. It also offers the opportunity to see if Canada does not want to raise its own standards. The European regulatory framework for genetic modification is also an important issue for all Canadian products placed on the European market and continues to be fully applicable. But there are always differences in the playing field, both within the internal market and beyond. Despite the high Dutch animal welfare requirements, Dutch farmers and companies can compete very well within and outside the EU. Then there is a question from Mr Alkaya about public services and mobile internet. More and more services are being merged, putting an end to market forces in the sector. Those kinds of choices remain very political. If a service in CETA is excluded, how does it relate to the right to regulate? I do not know whether Mr Voordewind on the previous subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u50	Yeah, I guess so. But I was hoping you would have just answered this question. I'd like you to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u51	Fine. It is a basic rule of international trade law, I think Mr Alkaya knows that WTO members have the right to make rules necessary for the achievement of legitimate policy objectives. This also applies to public services. This is contained in the WTO and GATT, and Canada and the EU are committed to this. CETA shall not change that right. On the contrary, it reconfirms that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u52	Mr Voordewind, on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u53	It was indeed about production standards in Canada, but I think I put a question to that effect in my text. Of course, that can't all grow together at once. We hope that this will happen in those committees and that Canada will adapt to European standards and not the other way around. My main point was: to what extent do we have sufficient safeguards, guarantees to keep up with our standards and to get imports in order? An example is hormone meat. The European Commission is responsible for this, together with Canada and certified companies. What more can the European Commission possibly do, perhaps through proper audits at farm level, to ensure that hormone meat does not reach Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u54	If Mr Voordewind doesn't mind, I'll take this straight to the second cup, production standards including food safety. This includes legislation on pesticides and discussion in the SPS Committee. Again on food safety. European standards and regulations remain in force. It therefore has no downward impact on the level of protection of the EU. The Convention itself ensures that EU protection is part of a robust Canadian control and enforcement system. Yesterday, the example of the Canadian Food Inspection Agency, which has to look at the 36 precertified companies that may export, was very frequent. They have a pre-inspection. They are obliged to keep a record of how the animals have lived and what food they have had from birth for three years. They must apply for and keep animal transport certificates. Food supplements should not contain substances that do not comply with EU standards, i.e. no hormones. This inspection system is being pre-audited again by the European Commission. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Voordewind had questions about this. I think it is important within the framework of this Convention, should it be ratified, that the Commission should be able to talk to Canada to see if additional audits can be added. It is a sovereign Canadian issue, but it is good to say, through the committees, that this is important to combat the concerns that live. It may be a bit overkill, because this system works and I know that we have not found cases in the Dutch market where hormone meat has landed. But it's good to take that care away one more time. This could be a cabinet commitment. It has to be discussed and Canada must, of course, agree. It's another conversation in the negotiations, but it's a good example, so thank you for the question of how to use a treaty to improve standards and provide certainty for consumers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mr Voordewind, a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u56	It is indeed a good thing that the Minister says: I would like to enter into this conversation with the European Commission to see if we can get the European Commission to make that extra effort on its own. Of course, we all have to operate step by step from the parliament. We address the Minister, the Minister can address the European Commission and then we have to talk to Canada again. All the understanding for that order. I understand that the Minister wants to make the effort towards the European Commission. Then, of course, what is the outcome of the discussion between the Minister and the European Commission? I hope that we will be able to hear the Minister soon, because I am curious about how the European Commission responds to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u57	I have regular contact with Commissioner Hogan, I have had talks again recently. I went to Brussels on 30 January, also in preparation for this debate, but also to convey the concerns and questions that live in Dutch society, from organisations to citizens and parties. I asked what else we can do, because this does not only live in the Netherlands, it also lives elsewhere. It is important, we know the treaty rules, we know the WTO rules, but what is the extra effort? I am talking to Commissioner Hogan about this and I hope we will hear more about it. I'm sure I'll share that with this room. But it's still a bet anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u58	I can only hear the Minister say: we are going to talk to Canada. CETA is a very nice opportunity, once it is there, to discuss the standards for hormone meat. But then we have already opened up the European market. We know from our own country how difficult it is to control farms properly and sharply. Then we enter into a treaty with Canada, which finds it quite normal to work with hormones...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u59	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u60	... and to market meat from chlor-cattles. I have absolutely no confidence in that conversations help. Wouldn't you have a conversation sooner...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u61	The Minister, I'm sorry. This is getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u62	...and make appointments before you close CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u63	It will get out of hand if you repeat your first term in an interruption. But your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u64	Yeah, the answer, too, I guess. Because hormone meat is forbidden, it is not allowed. Those companies that are allowed to export to the European Union are those 36 pre-certified companies that are allowed to do so, with the registers, with the checks and, of course, with the additional guarantee via the Dutch Food and War Authority. So it's already out of the question, so I don't need the conversation for that. Whatever the dialogue between the European Union and Canada can be useful and important for, for example, is for issues such as animal welfare, other moments to be able to certify, other things that we think: hey, they can also be good and important, and for which Canada is open. But if you want everything arranged up to 110% before you want to sign a treaty at all, we'll never sign anything again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u65	It's just really hard to check what those certified companies are doing. How is it controlled and what is our role in this respect, in terms of NVWA? Because the NVWA is already unable to check properly in the Netherlands, let alone that they can check whether the meat from Canada meets our requirements. And once there's a package around it and it's in plastic, we can't control that much more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u66	No, but if the question is whether we can trust Canada, it will be very difficult to negotiate. So far, that has not proved to be the case at all. It is a robust system, it is invested in, it is also very important for Canadian exporters. In all these years it has not been found that events have occurred. And indeed, the chain of responsibility and supervision is clear and functioning. I don't think this is the time to say to Canada: we don't have any evidence, but it could be that it ever goes wrong, so adjust your system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u67	The Minister continues her speech. She continues with the block on product standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u68	I'm still going through with that block. Mr Voordewind wants to ensure more Canadian controls of certified companies exporting hormone-free meat to the EU. I think we have just exchanged this in the debate: the 36 companies, the chain of supervision. The conduct of additional audits is indeed a competence of the Commission, in consultation with Canada. I have just confirmed my commitment: I think that is very important, also in the context of the concerns that live. Maybe it's de facto not necessary, but it may be important to give that comfort. Mr Voordewind also asked a question about animal meal and strict supervision. I would like to confirm that, in Canada, by law, the Health of Animals Acts and Regulations, it is prohibited to process the parts of bovine animals specified risk materials, i.e. special risk materials that can lead to the spread of mad cow disease in any form of animal feed or fertilizer. The Canadian equivalent of the Dutch Food and War Authority, together with provincial authorities, is responsible for separating these materials from other animal proteins which are intended for the production of animal feed. So I hope this will reassure you. Mr Voordewind also asked if I could urge the European Commission to strictly enforce European rules on GM. The EU is autonomous in defining the product standards it requires. Those GM requirements remain the same. That regulation is indeed strictly enforced. I will mention these points in particular in my next discussion with the Commission, when the Chief Trade Force is appointed, the chief chief of the monitoring of trade agreements. That will also be a good case for CETA. In addition to European genetic modification regulations, European legislation also guarantees food safety and that regulation remains genuinely applicable to all foods placed on the European market. Then I have a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. The question was: how can the Minister maintain that only products that comply with EU standards are allowed on the EU market? She wanted a clear and comprehensive response to this point. I hope it's clear, but I don't know if it's extended. All products exported to the EU must comply with product standards, such as plant and animal health requirements, food safety and labelling. CETA shall not reduce this. CETA doesn't change this either. Chlorochicken or CETA does not agree that products must meet production requirements, such as the animal welfare standards of the importing country. This was also Mrs Ouwehand's correction. We will come back to that in the block of animal welfare. Mr Voordewind had a question about border control and enforcement. Can Customs be provided with additional capacity? When it comes to GMOs, hormone meat or product requirements, customs are strictly enforced. I should also like to hope that this is the case in other EU countries. But if that requires additional capacity in the context of the Netherlands, Canada and CETA triangle, then I am prepared to look into it, in the interest of this agreement and in view of the concerns that exist. If we can demonstrate, also through the feedback and annual reporting of Customs on what is and is not being taken up, that the situation in reality is very different and that the figure appears to be very low or zero, then that should also give a form of public reassurance. Then there was a question from Mr Voordewind. Can we impose our handling of pesticides on Canadian companies that want to export to the EU? Can we set up a certification system for Canadian companies producing under EU rules on authorised crop control? This is always quite complicated and technical. Canada cannot export products to the European Union that do not meet European food safety standards. Strict monitoring is carried out for certain pesticide residues. That applies to all imports. But there was also a demand for the use of pesticides in the production process. If this does not leave any traces in the final product, food safety is not at stake, but the question arises as to whether farmers must respect the same environmental rules here and in Canada. There are differences between the EU and Canada in terms of the products we can both use. We cannot, through the EU, impose on Canada which pesticides are or are not banned there, just as Canada cannot impose it on us. The Treaty does not provide for this either. Furthermore, WTO rules do not allow products to be banned on the basis of such production standards. However, through CETA, and with this, I will come back to the importance of dialogue, dialogue and negotiation to address this, and we can see if we can work together on regulations in the field of crop pesticides and whether we can coordinate them with each other in order to achieve a higher standard. CETA is therefore also a platform. Is that blissful? No. Is it a very important entrance and a very important moment? Yes. Then I'll move on to the head of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u69	On the previous point, I see two more interruptions. First, Mr Voordewind, then Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u70	A word about pesticides, because that is indeed complicated. The WTO rules also play a part in this. We have different levels with regard to the MRLs, the residue levels, so that makes the control complicated. At the same time, of course, we could work with certificates. So at the moment when these products or parts of those products reach Europe in our food, we know exactly what is in them, so that consumers and customers have exactly the same knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u71	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u72	What is the Minister's position on the certification of these products coming to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u73	Certification is always quite a complicated process, because it is in many cases voluntary. We're talking about labels. In other committees we also talk about the multitude of labels and that the consumer sometimes does not come out. It's important to know how to get there effectively. I do think that the certification process we have for hormone-free beef is a good example of which we can talk to the Canadian authorities through the European Commission in one of those committees, by saying: this gives an extra form of comfort, it can also help, then you can also look at sustainability, food safety at a higher level, sustainability and so on. This can also give certain Canadian companies a market advantage, which is of course also important. Because we're all for the SDGs with trade. So is Canada in principle, so I think that conversation is very important. I would like to return to the question of feasibility in the second term. I have also had a number of discussions with the Commission, based on the whole debate on international corporate social responsibility, because ideally there is a level playing field within Europe. Because it's hard to ask Canada that certification only happens for the Netherlands, because other countries don't ask for it. So it's complex, but I'd like to come back to it in second place, also based on conversations the officials are having with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u74	Yeah, clear. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u75	I appreciate that, but the second term is of course very soon. I know that the Minister is already having this kind of conversation, possibly with the new Commissioner. I think it is important that we also hear about this from Brussels, so can the Minister give some indication of time? When does it intend to talk about Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u76	I'm talking to the commissioner. On a number of issues in the next few days, I should like to send a cabinet-sap appreciation to the Chamber, for example on certification; possibly with the Commission's commitment, because we have had those talks since January.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u77	That means: for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u78	Yeah, for the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u79	I have a request for order. In reply to Mr Voordewind's question, the Minister already refers to those working groups and that this would be a platform. But I have asked very detailed questions about this, first in writing and also in my first term. I think it would be nice if we could get that answer for the assessment of the cubes that are still coming. Perhaps the Minister could give them in writing or discuss the working groups first? 'Cause that matters a lot for the appreciation. Are they being used to raise standards or to lower them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u80	The Minister wants to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u81	Yeah, I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u82	Fine, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u83	That was a point of order. The Minister is going to explain this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u84	I'd like to make sure that I've taken this cup further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u85	But that in turn leads to further questions from Mr Alkaya, I think. Or is he just gonna wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u86	All this has to do with each other. I can also ask my follow-up question after this block. I am indeed concerned about the follow-up to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u87	Fine, then the minister will finish her block. Then, in response to Mrs Ouwehand, she explains what is going on with these working groups. Afterwards, the argument will be continued as the Minister had already indicated. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u88	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u89	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u90	But I just want to make sure that I have dealt with these questions and that I do not suddenly put animal welfare on the wrong pile. Fine. I now move on to block seven: governance, CETA, the committees. There are several committees under CETA, as you all know. The Joint Committee is just as important to refer to as it is the highest body under CETA. On the one hand there is the Canadian Trade Minister and on the other hand Trade Commissioner Hogan. They are responsible for questions concerning trade and investment as well as the implementation and application of CETA. The Committee shall monitor specialised committees responsible for the implementation and application of CETA in their field. For example, there is a committee on trade in goods, a committee on customs cooperation and a committee on financial services. The committees cannot change the Treaty itself. Only here, of course, is the debate also about the issue of the status quo in some cases, where technical, implementing aspects are concerned, some of the protocols and annexes of CETA can be adapted, such as the deletion of the geographical indication. I will mention a few other examples later. It must remain technical, and it must never lead to a substantial or substantive change, either in the Treaty or in standards and values. This isn't new. In all existing trade agreements, such as Singapore, similar powers can be given to executive committees, as this will, of course, enable the parties to the Convention to keep up with the Convention and possibly respond to new developments. But it doesn't take place behind closed doors. The agendas and reports of meetings shall be publicly available and shall be published on the Commission's website. The position of the EU within the CETA Committees shall be established in advance by the Council. As a member of the Council, the Netherlands has a say in the decision-making process. The Council decisions are also published in the Official Journal of the EU, which is available to all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u91	Is this what you wanted to say about the working groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u92	No, not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u93	Then I suggest the Minister finish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u94	I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u95	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u96	The question may indeed be answered. Mrs Diks asked: can the Minister ask us to trust us and press in Brussels for transparent reports from these consultative clubs? That actually assumed that the consultative clubs were committees, because that is what they are doing their job properly and working within the standards of the mandate given to officials. Indeed, we consider transparency about these trade agreements to be extremely important. Mrs Diks knows that; we always insist on that. We are not getting as far as we want with the Commission, but that remains important. So I think we see a great deal of shared interest there. We also welcome President Von der Leyen's announcement that Trade Commissioner Hogan should also provide for this transparency. That's one of the reasons he's going to appoint a chief trade enforcement officer, in April-May, to see exactly what works in the treaties and what doesn't and where it goes wrong. We'll report on that. But more importantly, take it, whether it's in a political agreement, if you look at civil society, or in the entire technical implementation. If the reporting of these committees themselves is not sufficiently rapid or incomplete, but that is a matter of process, the Netherlands really does appeal to the Commission. I hear from this Chamber that it was felt that the reporting was insufficient. There was a report from March 2018 that would not be on the website. It's on there. We found that report. That was pretty important for a lot of MPs. It was from the committee on sanitary and phytosanitary measures. CETA provides that those specialised committees shall report to the Joint Committee on results and conclusions. And Mrs Diks' report is also on it. It may be difficult to Mrs Ouwehand asked about the SPS Committee. That may also be related to Mrs Diks' comment. It was on 15 March 2018. It is claimed that the Canadian delegation has criticised this committee. The question was: what was the response of the European representation? Don't they have anything to do with CETA? Why can they lobby on that committee? What's the reaction? At least those were the same questions. That question has been answered in writing twice. I also told you that in February 2019 the CETA SPS Committee discussed maximum residue limits, MRLs, for the marketing of agricultural products in the EU. It goes without saying that this Committee discusses plant health matters. Both parties are free to express their views. That happens in a lot of committees. But your question is whether or not they should bring it to bear. I also understand the concern that this will bring European legislation and regulations into line. That is not the case. If the EU wants to adapt the rules, then the Council and the European Parliament should agree to them, as with any changes to EU legislation. So the precautionary principle is not in danger. It has been incorporated into the European Convention as a basis for European sustainability. This isn't going to change anything. In this case, too, I believe that the European Parliament voted it out, but I have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u97	Is this what you wanted to say about the committees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u98	Well, I still have an answer to a question about foodwatch, but I'm gonna check my folders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u99	I think now is the time for Mrs Ouwehand to ask a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u100	Well, I'll wait and see, 'cause those questions about foodwatch are relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u101	Okay. Then the Minister will answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u102	Then I'll ask the officials if they can send the paper from foodwatch again, because I can't go through all those folders right now. In the meantime, there were a few questions from Mrs Ouwehand. Can I ensure that the WOB documents are sent to the Chamber in full? The documentation requested by Mrs Ouwehand concerns documents from the CETA Committee on sanitary and phytosanitary measures. That's what we're in. Canada has incorporated a decision on the disclosure of documents into that committee on the basis of its own national legislation. These are available online. The review of that decision is not for the Netherlands, as Canada has accepted that WOB request. I don't know if there's a WOB request in the Netherlands. I can't judge that right now. But we cannot decide on Canada. The long arm doesn't reach that far. Then indeed the question about foodwatch. I believe the report from foodwatch came out this Monday. It's Thursday now. It's based on an information request from the Canadian government. It is indeed about e-mail exchanges on the agendas and reports of that SPS Sub-Committee of CETA. I cannot comment or comment on statements made by Canadian staff or EU staff. They're on them. But the discussions are not so different from those of other committees in other trade agreements, or those of, for example, the SPS Committee of the World Trade Organisation in Geneva. They talk about phytosanitary and sanitary barriers to trade. Information is therefore exchanged and new regulations are being examined. If the Canadian commitment was the concern: it is not new and corresponds to criticism from other countries, such as the US, of the European precautionary principle. In their view, this is not sufficiently based on scientific research. We have indeed lost a case on this within the WTO. It was about hormone meat. The report referred to by Mrs Ouwehand states that the European precautionary principle is under attack. That's not correct. The European precautionary principle is enshrined in Article 191 (2) of the European Convention, as you know. The SPS Sub-Committees do not adopt legislation and do not influence the establishment of European rules. Foodwatch indicates that the Netherlands participated in that subcommittee. This concerns our agricultural council, the embassy. It is customary for agricultural councils of countries to be able to participate in sub-committees, often as an expert. Of course, we also have great agricultural interests, so we often sit on committees of this kind, including other treaties. Furthermore, we simply have good bilateral contacts. That is all I can say from the government's side. Should Mrs Ouwehand submit a request for a WOB on documentation that we have, we will await it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u103	This is, of course, crucial. The Minister keeps saying that it is a good thing that we have a free trade agreement with Canada because then we talk, including in committees of this kind. That's a wonderful opportunity to raise standards, she says. Moreover, we do not have to worry because the committees deal only with implementing and technical aspects. I asked if the committees were meant to give Canada a chance to criticise European regulations that have nothing to do with CETA. I also asked the Minister to simply confirm whether or not that happened. The Minister's keeping tabs. Those MRLs have been mentioned, i.e. the amount of poison that is still allowed on a product imported. But she doesn't write: Canada wanted this and Europe said that. So we cannot check whether the statement that the Minister is defending here, namely that it is going to be a race to the top, is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u104	A race to the top is not just fought because everyone agrees with each other all the time. I mean, you have peaks and valleys. If, in this case, the report shows that Canada is using another look at the MRLs, then Canada is free to do so. That's part of the negotiations, too. But our regulations are final. That's all that matters. He's not under any pressure. Canada may try, but the EU and the Commission have simply not changed. That's all that matters. It's about the results in this case. This does not mean that there is no influence on a particular issue, but the European position is clearly communicated. On a lot of themes you can work things out. Well, that's way too categoral, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u105	But there are working groups working with this convention. The Minister says that this is perfectly normal and that this is the case with all the treaties. They can still talk about the protocols and the technical and implementing aspects. That's the living document. But that is the mandate of those working groups. We must believe that Canada is sensitive to the Dutch plea that standards should be raised. However, we see that Canada is not using the working groups, which the Minister reassures the Chamber that they are only dealing with technical and executive aspects, to lobby for lowering European standards. How does the Minister feel about that? Is that the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u106	That's not the point. But that does not mean that all these committees should be suddenly dismissed as dark and shadowy. We cannot directly appeal to a country like Canada. What is important is what the outcome is, that the Commission is clear and that the rules are applied. If we go into the world in this way and exclude people on the basis of a different opinion or an attempt to make a change out of national interest, then we will not get much further. What is important is that the Commission is sharp and that regulation and protection are maintained. As far as I am concerned, that is the most important thing. If you had found in the report that the Commission had moved and shuffled, I would also be concerned. Then you will be the first to find the Netherlands there. Then we say, "Hello, this can and should not be done." But that has not been demonstrated at the moment. I think you'd better keep up with the reports, but this is a procedure. If there's a treaty, it has to be implemented. It's like the civil service in the Netherlands. Officials are needed to ensure implementation and feedback and to report and correct it. Are there mistakes being made? Are they trying? Of course. That's possible; it's part of the game. But the bet I'm describing is a race to the top. You can never expect the other to always be convinced of everything. In Canada too, changes in behaviour, changes in production methods, investments and concerns and interests of people must always be weighed. You need to get people with you. This also applies here to the debates on changes in the agricultural sector or the move towards circular agriculture. I do not know what prompted the Canadian members of that committee to commit to this, although I can imagine. But I do not agree with saying that the committees do not work, if that is the inference of your speech. They work for all the treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u107	I want the Minister's clarity. Just now, the Minister said that Canada is not supposed to do so in those committees, because they are only about technical and executive aspects. A few minutes later, she says that's what it's all about. Because if you're on such a committee with each other, you're just gonna lobby for your own interests. So what is it? Is it not the intention, or is it not the intention, that Canada should use a platform to bring down European rules, as this promotes Canada's export position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u108	It's en-and. I didn't mean to. It's like, you won't kill anyone, and sometimes it happens, but that's not the point. So it's en-and. They're not supposed to do it. This means that the rules are clear and clear. So it's en-and. We cannot look in the spirit of the Canadian diplomat or technical attaché to see what this one will bring. It is not intended and they have received another clear answer. I think that's much more reassuring. I think the conclusion is as important as the attempt. Be alert, yeah. But do you think all those officials sitting there are getting a little sleepy because everything is already perfect? No. CETA is also in progress. And we're all vigilant, as it's called. We'll watch it. We're watching. The Room looks very closely, which is great. But it's not like you can blame someone for trying something. I don't like it. I don't like it. I think we should send a message about that, too. But it's good that the system stands up for the precautions. That's gotta be clear. You asked me to describe how these committees work. I did, but there is no perfection on this earth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u109	The outcome was not positive at all. I mean, the minister just doesn't answer. The Minister's just saying that there has been talk of MRLs. The Chamber wants to know what was said there. We now know from the WOB documents that European officials have said to Canadian officials: yes, our commitment is to move away from that precautionary principle. The Minister knows that the Chamber already has a great deal of difficulty in controlling all groups within the European Union system. What is being pre-cooked in these groups has a huge impact on the final decision-making process. It is not enough, therefore, for the final outcome to be submitted to the European Commission once again. You need to know what's going on there, because that's what matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u110	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u111	This is difficult enough within the European Union's system, and the working groups with Canada are adding to it. We can't see what's going on in there. We do see that, with the approval of the Minister, it is being used by Canada to influence European rules to the detriment of the objectives we must pursue. Well, good story!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u112	It's nice to put words in my mouth that I didn't use. I don't agree. That's what I said. I am asked for an explanation of how the committees work. That's actually true. That's business. I'll make an assessment of that. The second thing that is important is that it is not a bypass of the democratic order. It passes the European Council and the European Parliament. And, again, if you've ever worked public service or negotiated internationally, you know that people in processes sometimes have their own commitment. The most important thing is to maintain the precautionary measure and the protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u113	This is an essential point. On the one hand, we can see that there are really substantial differences in Canada with regard to the production process here. They use toxins that are forbidden here. Secondly, we can see that they use the kind of institutions that install the CETA Convention to bring down standards in the Netherlands and Europe. It is reassuring that this is not possible for the time being. But we institutionalize this. Why would we want this? People already feel that the European Council is difficult to influence and that it is doubtful whether democracy has any influence on this. Can the Minister imagine that? And now we're going to take another step on top of that, making it even more elusive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u114	I can imagine that very well, but that is how the Union is constructed, and that is how we have our strength. If you want to implement a treaty, whatever it is, and you want to monitor its implementation, there is a process for that. That is what officials and committees are for, and that is what reporting is for. This report brings us back here to talk about the functioning of that committee. But it is too broad to say: that is why a treaty must not go through, or that is why the committee is not working. This is the structure of the Union and, as Member States, we support it. In fact, we often sit on these committees with Dutch experts. I'd see that as a guarantee, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u115	This is another argument in the line of: it's in it, it works like this, we go on like this, and it's not that bad. That's probably what we're gonna hear about the investment court. But I can also ask the Minister whether she thinks this is desirable? And if she finds this undesirable, like a very large part of the Netherlands, has she worked hard to get these kind of official working groups out of the treaty? Because this kind of thing is just out of date. Shouldn't we at least try not to allow this kind of shady practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u116	Even if I wanted to, I wouldn't have been able to commit. Because the treaty was already filed, ready, signed by the previous cabinet. And the parliament was included in that. This is just a matter of fact. So you're asking, could you have been committed? No. We are committed; this cabinet supports this trade agreement, we think it is well negotiated and we think it is balanced. And in the structure that goes with the implementation of such conventions, there are committees of this kind. This report is now being discussed. I agree that this is a discussion that should not have taken place. That is also a comment we can make to the European Commission, to Commissioner Hogan: "We do not want to talk about reducing protection or standards. We do not want to undermine the precautionary principle; it should not come to that, through such a committee." That is an important political signal, and I can bet on it. But saying "we throw the baby away with the bath water" because of such a situation, is totally unworkable. The question is how are you going to get another treaty implemented at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u117	I'd like to get on that. The Minister says: "I am confident that things are going well in those working groups, and I think it is important that the rules as we have them in the EU are maintained; that is just standard, ready. The working groups work businesslikely, that is." But foodwatch has put these WOB requests, the wobbled correspondence between the working groups and Canada, online. I got this one right here; it's a very thick, double-sided, package. The Canadian participants in the consultations refer several times to the World Trade Organisation guidelines. Foodwatch says, if I may just read out one sentence: in response, European officials will assure Canada that the legislation will change and that Canada will have the opportunity to participate in the European Union's legislative process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u118	What's your question about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u119	That I haven't been able to go over it all the time, all those wobbled articles and e-mails, with my one employee. We are doing our best, but perhaps it is also advisable for the Minister to take that up for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u120	Yeah, of which I'm aware.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u121	This is an extremely important trade agreement, which must now be approved. The Minister says, in his response to the Animal Party, that if you found anything in those wobbled articles that would show that EU regulations and our standards are indeed being violated, then I would also be concerned. So you can worry about these; those articles are just online. Would you like to take note of this and come back to it in the second term and say how you feel about it? That would be very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u122	I have already mentioned, in the time we have been given, everything I have to offer about the food watch report. I have also clearly appointed the Dutch position. So it is very important to know that we ultimately stand for the protection of the precautionary principle, and there are no changes there. Everyone focuses very much on a Canadian attempt on a committee, as if it were 100% emblematic of Canadian action. I don't think that's the case. If there are tensions between interests on certain issues, sometimes shared and sometimes not, you should expect them to be discussed. But the most important thing is that it lasts; that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u123	This is absolutely not an answer to my question. I would like to ask the Minister: would the Minister like to take note of what foodwatch says from those wobbled articles, and then come back to that in the second term? That is what is essential: the EU's rules are being violated and the precautionary principle with regard to pesticides is being called into question. So that is really a very important point, whether or not to agree with CETA. I would say absolutely: vote it away. But will the Minister come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u124	I can come back to it in second term. I wouldn't know what else to add, but I'll come back to it if that helps the progress of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u126	With this positive attitude of the Minister... In fact, that story about the committees is, of course, very much about democratic control of all of this. As you can see, a number of members of the Chamber have risen to ask questions to the Minister on this very point. Of course, it would be nice if the Minister were to take this seriously. It is good that the report was apparently available on the website, although it was very difficult to find. We haven't been able to find it at all. This, of course, says something about the way in which transparency is exercised, so I think that is also a very important point. The Minister then indicated that she wanted transparent reports to be produced in future. I don't know if you've ever looked at them. You may call it a report, but there's hardly anything in it, and what's in it is terribly vague. So that is not at all the picture I have of a transparent report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u127	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u128	And then the next point that the Minister says is that this discussion should not have taken place in this way. I'll be very upset. Democratic control is not enough if we cannot see enough in these committees to see what is happening there. If you, as a minister, are able to control what is happening there, but in fact you can't because it happened somewhere far away in an official club...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u129	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u130	Then my question is... It's so annoying when I can't finish my point. This is a new fact that did not come up in this way yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u131	I would ask you not to discuss this with the President, but to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u132	I would like to finish this point. If you say that this should not have happened, how are you going to ensure that you are sufficiently aware of what is being agreed in these internal clubs in the future? If you only focus on the result, I am very concerned about that. The point is, of course, that influence is very difficult to trace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u133	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u134	So if we finally find out that there is a torment, that there is still nibbling on those standards and on those standards, how are you going to monitor that this is not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u135	There is democratic control through the European Parliament and the Council. The Netherlands instructs the Council. That's always the cycle that goes on. Secondly, I am very sorry that my words are now very much extrapolated to another level. It's not meant to be. It seems that at that time a discussion took place in that committee which we do not consider desirable. This is the reality: people act, people work. You're not gonna change a whole structure for that, or you're not gonna question democratic control. There is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u136	There is, of course, that democratic control, but at the very end. This is precisely the problem with these committees. These committees are discussed very early in the process. That's where there's official speaking. It is understandable that the Canadians want something, because of course they are negotiating. But from the foodwatch report, we understand that European officials are also saying: yes, it will be fine, Canada, don't worry; we have it under control here and we are going to take a closer look at whether those standards in Europe are actually too high. That variant does not consider GroenLinks an option. So you need to install safeguards so that this can certainly not happen. This kind of conversation shouldn't take place. That's what you're telling me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u137	Yes, in theory, but how it will work out in practice... That's with a lot of things in life, even in work in progress. We will once again send the message to Commissioner Hogan that we expect these committees and the officials to comply with the mandate, with the mandate, and that it is only the technical implementation and/or updating where that has been mandated by CETA and the implementation of the Convention. This is a nice case for that. You can also set this as a positive example by saying again what the expectation of the Netherlands Member State is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u138	Yeah, I'm gonna put one more question to it. I really want to hear from the Minister that, not only to Commissioner Hogan, but also in general here for Dutch society, there is a very short answer coming from Europe when Canada is intensifying talks about lowering standards and that this answer can only be 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u139	Well, we're one Member State, one out of 27. I have just discussed and indicated the Dutch commitment. I am not going to stand in front of the other 26 Member States. We don't have that authority. That extends our limits of sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u140	Block 7 started so well, but it went out of the bend at a fast pace. The minister is downplaying a bit in my opinion. It would only be technical changes they'd be allowed there... I don't understand why you have a complete system of a main committee and I don't know how many sub-committees you need if it's just technical changes. Then she says that CETA is a work in progress; that is the same as a living document. And in the end it is: 'Yes, that is how the Union is constructed and otherwise you will never be able to adopt a treaty at all'. Yeah, it's annoying, isn't it, the parliamentary audit? Let me ask you a specific question. The Minister says: it passes the European Parliament, there is control of the European Parliament. What exactly can the European Parliament do against those decisions of the Treaty Committees? Can it change? Can it amend it? Can it happen? More specifically, what can the European Parliament do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u141	In principle, these committees are not expected to take decisions, because they have to monitor their implementation. We have just mentioned one example when it comes to geographical explanation. That is to protect, in this case, Gouda cheese, which cannot be produced anywhere else as Gouda cheese. I can imagine that this is not the case, but I should like to confirm in the second term that Parliament also wants to do so. This is really considered a technique. Indeed, quite different is a discussion that could have touched on the precautionary principle. That's from a completely different order, that's about something completely different. This is about consumer protection, standards and standards. These are the examples. The process is well known, but I will just ask the officials to give me two more examples which indicate where Parliament rejected it, which is indeed an example. I don't have that in my possession.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u142	That's what I like to hear. Even when it comes to so-called technical changes, I would like to know what the instruments are where the European Parliament can make a difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u143	Mr President, I have another question of order. The Minister just referred to reports that are difficult to find and she said that there was something in those reports that I do not think is in it at all. So maybe it's useful so that we don't have a well-nothing game, that we have the same documents and that those reports are just being distributed for a while. Then we can check with each other: is that what European officials are doing or not? I don't think so. The minister just said he did. Can those pieces just be shared? That's my order question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u144	I don't know. Mrs Diks could not find the report, so I went along with Mrs Diks as a courtesy to say that it is often difficult to find. That was also confirmed by Mrs Diks. My officials can find reports, so can Mrs Ouwehand. Mrs. Diks couldn't find a report. We've confirmed it's available. So I don't know how we do a carousel about finding reports and what reports. It was about a report on 18 March, I believe, which Mrs Diks was looking for. I have already pointed out that it is available. But I don't always find every website as easy myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u145	It is a simple request, in fact, to help the Minister, so that we do not have a well-being game, because that report says something different than what the Minister is saying here, I say. So if the Minister is okay with the report, send it around, ease the Chamber for the truth we're trying to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u146	Can Mrs Ouwehand say what report she herself refers to? Because I think she reads these reports more regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u147	The report to which the Minister refers and which I have asked about: can you confirm that Canada lobbied at that meeting to reduce the European precautionary principle, for example with regard to satsumas? And what was the commitment of European officials there? The Minister only says: they have talked about MRLs. Yeah, we already knew that, but what was the stake? Just now the Minister said...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u148	We're not going to do the whole substantive discussion again. You have a point of order. You want a report. You have now indicated which report that is, without a title or number.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u149	Or a date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u150	So I can't judge which report it is, but, through the Minister, it might be wise for officials to take a look at which report is available and that it is simply shared. Because it's public information. Now we can just move on to the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u151	Yeah, exactly. It's been exchanged twice in writing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u152	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u153	Then I'll see if I'm still in this indication... We have talked a lot about the committees. For officials: the report of 15 March, I believe. WOB documents, no. I'm gonna check under committees. If there are no further questions about the committees, then this was the heading committees. It is all about the risk of legislative change in the committees and the concerns that they face. Then I'm going back to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u154	The fourth block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u155	... heading three, animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u156	Oh, I thought we already finished that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u157	No, no, no, that's one of the main themes. On animal welfare, there were many questions from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Diks, Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Haga, Mrs Ouwehand and perhaps other colleagues or colleagues of those Members. I would like to start by saying that, unfortunately, there are no internationally established animal welfare standards yet. There is also evidently no scientific research to demonstrate the impact of the relationship between the amount of regulation and the welfare level of animals. However, I can imagine that certain rules have a very clear demonstrable effect on animal welfare. Impact is one thing, but we are naturally concerned with regulations and proof of animal welfare, as we know in the Netherlands. We are also still striving for improvement. However, rules do result from local and national circumstances. For example, it is logical that in a country with intensive livestock farming on a small area there may be more rules than in a country with a large area for extensive livestock farming. For clarity, of course, we're only talking about space. We can talk for a long time about casusism and individual examples of where Canadian and European regulations differ from practice. We need to look internationally. A link remains an evaluation report from 2017 of the World Organisation for Animal Health, i.e. the World Organisation for Animal Health. It states that animal welfare in general in Canada is well regulated at federal and regional level, both in terms of awareness and compliance. In addition, the organisation indicates that the Canadian organisation performs well in the field of animal welfare. But, of course, we must strive for the highest possible level of shared protection on this issue. This is a sensitive subject. This is important. I think we're all sharing this. CETA also offers a platform for this. It is now important to continue these discussions. The differences between the EU and Canada, both geographically and in terms of legislative framework and culture, naturally mean that we cannot expect Canadian policy to ever fully reflect on Europe's. But there is willingness on the Canadian side to amend its legislation. That is a very important point. This is what the Commission sees as a positive and encouraging signal to me. For example, on 20 February 2020, a number of amendments will come into force under the Health of Animals Regulations. At the Regulatory Cooperation Forum, or the regular Cooperation Forum, on 4 February last, animal welfare was discussed in Ottawa. Mr Voordewind asks whether we can also apply our animal welfare standards to Canada. I have just said that everyone produces in their own way, largely determined by the local context. This also applies to pesticides in the production process. Everyone has their own standards. We cannot say that animal welfare standards are generally lower in Canada than in the EU, but there are significant differences in specific areas. That is, of course, a very important issue. However, the rules of the World Trade Organisation do not allow products to be banned. As far as the government and the European Union are concerned, CETA is therefore also a platform for the discussion of those animal welfare requirements. There have been a number of meetings. We assume that improvements will and must be made. On 4 September there was a progress letter from my fellow Minister Schouten on animal welfare. In a broad sense, it has been explained how we want to achieve a more level playing field internationally in relation to animal welfare standards. Then, of course, there is the issue of animal welfare and CETA. This was, of course, a general consideration of Canada. In view of the letter, the appreciation of the World Organisation for Animal Health and the role of the Canadian Food Inspection Authority, it is important to see how we can proceed with Canada, precisely to raise animal welfare standards on certain issues. We need to look at this and we need to talk about it, but unfortunately we cannot claim it because of the World Trade Organisation, because animal welfare is covered by the production standard, which is different from production standards that include certification, food safety and labelling, for example. So we need to see how we can do that better. It's been discussed. We are committed to the use of the agricultural committees and to agreements on long-distance transport, because they really need to be improved. The Committee on Plant Health talks about animal welfare. All those reports are online. Is this a satisfactory answer? No, but it is an issue where we want to hang out with Canada to see what we have to offer and how they can improve. Perhaps we could also include Mr Voordewind's suggestion that this aspect should be included in the labelling. Is the meat of any animal purchased properly treated in accordance with EU standards in terms of transport, accommodation, type of cage and accommodation? Perhaps that would be a good time to take this with you, recognizing the importance. With regard to the competitiveness of Dutch farmers, it is often asked whether it is fair that we expect farmers to set the standard very high, not only from the side government but also as a reflection of what we all think. It has certainly not harmed the competitiveness of Dutch farmers. We also want a race to the top here. The Netherlands is at the forefront of Europe in many areas. Other European countries are not at the same level and Canada still has to join. That is not a story that you can say is great, but it is an aspect that needs to be taken into account. However, the WTO perspective of action is really very limited. So here we do influence and talk together in all those committees, looking at what is being done. The labelling aspect can be very useful and can also be a promotional tool.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u158	Very disturbing. The Minister is starting to downplay the questions. She says: there is no proven link between animal welfare rules and actual well-being. She says that like a good kick-off. It is always protected that the European Union has the highest animal welfare standards and now suddenly, now that it is convenient, the Minister says: you cannot say in general that Canada is lower in this. As she herself begins to say that there is no connection, I ask the Minister whether it would be more pleasant for a pig to stand between bars, where she can only take a step forward or a step backwards or lie down, or whether she has freedom of movement. Then it's about certification. Just now, in reply to Mr Voordewind's question, the Minister said that it is actually difficult, but when it comes to animal welfare, she suddenly sees it as a feasible idea. What is it? Is certification and labelling a viable route or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u159	An interruption is short and not a deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u160	In the first place, yes, I would like the whole quote. I said that it is said that it is not detectable, but it is, of course, about the fact that we can see when animal welfare is handled and respected. However, this is a theoretical theorem which appears to come from the reports. So if you would like to quote me, I would very much like to be exhaustive, because I have placed an important guinea pig myself. Then there is the second point. I try to think along on the subject of labelling. When I say that labelling is difficult, I mean that we cannot impose it, but that it is an option in the context of the discussion. I said that it was the cabinet's commitment to look with the Commission at the possibility of labelling in talks with the Canadians. It can be tempting. It could be an incentive. That is precisely the very sensitive issue of animal welfare, where we are indeed seeing differences between Canada and the Netherlands in the EU, depending on which country you are talking about, one of the examples. Of course, I am free to try to think carefully about dealing with these concerns. I cannot imagine that the Animal Party wants to appeal to me in a negative way. Of course you can, but that seems rather interesting to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u161	I propose that the Minister continue with the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u162	Yes, these were the general points about animal welfare. Then I would like to move on to the competitiveness of agriculture and a number of questions that have been raised in terms of quality requirements, environmental requirements and so on. Many members of this Chamber have expressed concern about the possible negative effects of the trade agreement with Canada on Dutch agriculture. We understand that from the cabinet's side, of course, but you also have to see how trade agreements come to the Dutch advantage in the end. For example, there was a question from Mrs Diks whether I could respond to the proposal to exclude agriculture from all future treaties. I do not know whether that is the most economically viable proposal. We are, of course, the second largest agricultural exporter in the world after the United States. We have a great interest in achieving careful, good, weighted agreements, including with a view to sustainable agriculture. In agriculture, we also need to look at market access, food safety and other enforcement standards. Agriculture is one aspect of the new trade agreements concluded in recent years with Japan, Singapore and Vietnam. It gives an export opportunity for Dutch farmers, dairy farmers and exporters in the agricultural sector, also to apply, renew and look for innovation. I have said it many times this morning: if you look at Canada, the Dutch agricultural sector is getting better. The extra possibilities are especially available for cheese makers. Trade in sensitive products such as pork is being liberalised very rarely. We're talking very small quantities. It is an incorrect picture that borders are being opened up indefinitely to agricultural products from Canada. This is a concern, because the image has been created that the boundaries open and that when you turn around at the Albert Heijn, you only see Canadian products. That's not true. There is a well-considered, balanced approach to quotas and exclusion. Then there is a question from Mr Voordewind: what is the status of equal opportunities for our farmers, as we are putting more and more environmental, animal welfare and food safety requirements here? That comes back a bit on the previous cup. All the products that emerge from the European market, I cannot repeat it enough: they must comply with the standards of food safety. As regards environmental and animal welfare requirements, the impact on competitiveness is less than sometimes proposed. You can also see this by the fact that the Netherlands is number two of the world. That has to do with the way we produce. Our high wages, regulations and so on do not stand in the way of our ability to compete. We are and remain a competitive economy. With Canada it will be a race to the top. That's the bet. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Voordewind asked how CETA can ensure that the transition to circular agriculture is not undermined. How can we continue or even strengthen circular agriculture despite or rather thanks to CETA? That was more Mr Voordewind's commitment. We are looking at the trade flows in agricultural goods under CETA. In 2019, less than 0.5% of total agricultural imports came from Canada. The vast majority of imports/exports still take place between neighbouring countries and within the internal market. Therefore, the role of CETA in the transition is relatively small. But cross-border trade can also play an important role in making the economy and the world more sustainable. You can also look at the way it is produced. It has to change. It doesn't have everything to do with the price paid for it. Circle farming is also a way to internationalise well. It doesn't stop at the place of production. It can also be much wider. We also believe that CETA, linked to circular agriculture, offers a huge opportunity for green technology, other ways of producing. That is precisely what can be looked at in cooperation with Canada. Circling is not limited to local and regional level. We hope, by means of certain resources that the cabinet will use, as discussed in my colleague Schouten's letter last week, to give circular agriculture a start to go through this difficult transformation, those changes that help farmers. Then there is a question from Mr Voordewind: can far-reaching economies of scale put pressure on family businesses mainly in the Netherlands? We do not believe that CETA will lead to economies of scale, but it is of course very important to continue to pay attention to family businesses. They really are at the heart of a lot of what happens in farming. That has also been explained in the vision of my colleague Carola Schouten. It opened up the Young Farmers' Fund on 1 January; this is also the result of the government agreement of the four parties. You correspond to my colleague in other committees. On the contrary, it must restore a future for young farmers and encourage the take-over of family farms, especially with a view to supporting and encouraging circular farming. Then there was a question from Mr Voordewind about how I feel about a transition fund. How does CETA work in circular agriculture? I have already mentioned this in my colleague's letter. The cabinet has previously stated that it will inform you about the progress of the conversion fund before the summer. It is really only up to my colleague from LNV, but I heard that Mr Voordewind wants us to do this faster. I can confirm that this will be completed before 1 May. I hope that it will also be a hand to Mr Bishop of the SGP that will offer comfort, support and also perspective. A question from Mr Amhaouch: can action be taken or can action be taken if sectors lose their competitiveness through national policies? The competitiveness of each sector, not just this... 4% of exports from the Netherlands to Canada is agriculture, so within this sector we take this very seriously. The circular vision is incredibly important. We are looking at the position of farmers, including young farmers, in corporate takeovers as I just said. Furthermore, you will soon hear about how a transition fund will be developed to support this. Mr Amhaouch also asked about accompanying policy for Dutch agricultural holdings affected by CETA. How can we do that? What's been detected? The findings are not yet clear. We are actually seeing more of an increase in exports than an increase in imports from the agricultural sector in Canada. I already told you. But, of course, we always look at accompanying measures. That is also stated in the various letters sent to the Chamber. If negative effects are found to be disproportionate in relation to market forces, accompanying measures are needed. If we have more insight into the economic effects of CETA, I will be happy to come back to that. Then there is a question from Mr Bishop: how are we going to compensate the sectors that suffer from the disadvantages of CETA? Trade agreements always have positive and negative effects on certain sectors, but at the moment, I repeat, there is no evidence that there are negative effects on agricultural sectors, rather the opposite. As I said to Mr Amhaouch, we are looking at accompanying policy on this. This has been confirmed in previous measures and I am also talking to the European Commission about this. Then we move on to the heading environment and sustainability. When it comes to environmental protection, CETA confirms the high level of ambition of the EU and Canada. It is quite clear that both sides are once again focusing on the Paris Agreement and the provisions. The sustainability chapters in the Treaty also show this. Results have been achieved. If you look at sustainability, then of course you also have to look at labour, living wages and such issues. It is important that, in the run-up to the CETA negotiations, Canada has confirmed a number of important basic conventions of the International Labour Organisation. The Committee under the implementation of CETA has also adopted joint recommendations in the field of trade and gender equality, as Mrs van den Hul also referred to, I believe, trade and climate. We're also working on a gender work plan. Gender is, in any case, a major priority for this cabinet in the trade agenda and in the development agenda, and we take this into account in every trade agreement. Together with France, I am moving into the European Council to ensure that the Climate Agreement is at the heart of any trade agreement and that we no longer sign agreements if that is not the case. It can't be that we're moving on without Paris. An ambition level for sustainability goes hand in hand with good compliance. That is why I will return to the upcoming appointment of the chief trade enforcer. Especially when you look at sustainability provisions, it becomes extremely important that this is properly observed. The provisions of the Convention are legally binding on the EU and Canada. That is extremely important, because then we can actually take steps in the area of sustainability. I believe that it has been asked in the previous cabinet period whether, if the sustainability provisions are infringed, if they are not complied with, trade sanctions are an option. It sounds nice. Even in matters of war and peace, sanctions prove to be a difficult package. But practice has shown that sanctions are not particularly helpful as a first reaction. As a cabinet and EU, we are looking at a dispute settlement procedure and how we can proceed together. There are also side effects of trade sanctions. Those affected are usually the more vulnerable groups. We have agreed that we will carry out an early evaluation of the enforceability and thus the results of the sustainability chapters in CETA. In that context, the 2016 Jan Vos motion was adopted. That was before the present cabinet agreed to sign and apply. I want to continue to reaffirm that this is a very important issue. I am therefore really looking forward to the specific mandate of the Chief Trade Force. Of course, we also want to see how trade unions and NGOs can be better involved as conversational partners. There are a number of working groups in which NGOs, trade unions and others are discussed, but also with provinces and municipalities. How do you deal with the sustainability provisions? I see Mrs. Diks standing, so I'm gonna take a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u163	Mrs. Diks is about to make her seventh interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u164	I thought it was my fifth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u165	No, this will be your seventh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u166	I'm gonna have to take a nap. I believe that in my first term I very strongly asked if the Minister could give an appreciation of how she sees that this cabinet is right on the one hand to make a strong commitment to the sustainability and implementation of the Paris Climate Agreement, which, by the way, is incredibly behind us, while at the same time having this agreement with Canada, which we have seen in recent years, that trade in oil and petroleum products has grown enormously. Of course, there's a huge discrepancy in that. I sincerely hope that the Minister will say that this is ultimately a very undesirable effect of CETA. We see no delay at all in the sale and export of petroleum products. In fact, oil is currently the biggest winner of CETA by far. How does the Minister see this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u167	We have to start with a fact: for CETA, there was already a zero rate under the WTO on crude oil and other forms of oil. Therefore, CETA has not changed that. The fact that more oil is traded is therefore independent of CETA. Probably because of economic developments, it may have to do with oil prices, supply or competition. In the WTO there is a zero rate on crude oil. So there's no such relationship. The Paris Agreement is covered by the agreement on the environment in CETA. Both parties must implement the Paris Agreement regardless. I think that's the essence. Don't you have to go faster with your energy transition? I'd say yes, of course. But it is not up to the EU to impose this on Canada. What is there is, however, is the sustainability provisions that Canada and the EU have stated that they should be climate-neutral by 2050. You could indeed say that more oil exports seem a bit of an anachronistic movement. This is a market definition. It's not CETA. I think that's important. However, we are looking at the bilateral dialogue on the environment and climate and how we can achieve the objectives. In the longer term, if CETA can help, it may be possible to reassure a little bit in the longer term, it is diversification of exports from Canada, the work on innovation and clean technologies, and the removal of trade restrictions that stand in the way of that. At other times, Mr Bouali, and I believe you too, is asking me regularly for the Green Goods Agreement. That is also an important element in that. It is not bound by CETA, but it does offer an opportunity. I also think that more oil and more fossil energy is not a good move. I am not in favour of that. Absolutely not. We have the Climate Agreement for a reason, but we are sticking to each other's goals. How they're gonna do that is up to Canada, but it's important to say that. Unfortunately, oil already had a zero rate, so it's not. There was also a question from Mr Amhaouch on the sustainability chapters in investment treaties. Most investment treaties do not actually contain sustainability chapters, so in this case this is already progressing. Mr Amhaouch also asked me whether this meant progress in relation to other treaties. This is the first trade agreement concluded with an investment part. We'll get to that in a minute. Sustainability chapters are really new. This means a very active and relevant translation of the Paris agreements. But the energy sources and the transition are, of course, up to the countries themselves. I hope so, and I also assume that I am going to discuss this, too, and that we will be able to internationalise the Green Deal of Europe, if blessed with the right budget. That was also a question that was asked. It's a huge opportunity. What we can also offer to countries, not only to Canada, is wider international cooperation. This is a contribution that the EU can make. Mrs Diks asked how long the Minister put trade promotion above combating climate change. You then assume that trade is climate negative in any case, or that the promotion of the implementation of the Paris Agreement is negative. There are obligations, as I just said. One should certainly not rule out the other. We need to see where they can go together. We do want clean technology and ideally an accelerated transition, but that is up to Canada. They must decide for themselves, just as we want them to do, how they will achieve that energy transition, also in order to achieve the Paris climate objectives. Workshops on trade and climate, including civil society and business, will be held under the Convention. We want to ensure that climate and the Paris agreement become cross-cutting issues in all committees, just as we have in our trade agenda. Climate and gender are really the cutting themes. Mr Voordewind asked if I can confirm that CETA will not become an obstacle to climate policy. It should not be, but that depends very much on how active and proactive the cabinet, supported by Parliament and I hope by many in Dutch society, can be in speeding up the implementation of the objectives we have set out in the Climate Law and the Climate Agreement. CETA is not about it that way. It's just a time to show how fast we can go, when we can still trade. I come back to this: 4% of this treaty is about agriculture and 96% is about investment, knowledge, technology and competition in public procurement in Canada. There are huge opportunities for many Dutch SMEs, but also for the larger ones, such as dredging companies and other companies that earn their living building public works. Large infrastructure projects and programmes also generate a lot of secondary work. There was another question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. How can I guarantee that the butter-soothing sustainability agreements also deliver? 'Cause talking doesn't help. I have said it before: I believe not only in dialogue, but also in agreements, in ensuring that these agreements are complied with and in adjusting them if they are not. This is my generic answer, that you can apply to climate but also to other issues. Mrs Van den Hul asked if I could have talks with Canada in the near future; do we include civil society in this? You know that, throughout the negotiations and implementation of trade agreements, civil society from the Canadian side is always involved, but also from all European countries. I think that Dutch civil society has probably also been very active. The sustainability chapters also set up national advisory groups which include NGOs, trade unions and business members. They should also contribute to compliance with and implementation of the sustainability chapters. Two national advisory groups have already come together or had a meeting. That was the last time in November 2019. There is also a civil society forum at EU-Canada level. This has many members and is a broad reflection of civil society. They've had conversations, too. Apparently, it was a great success. I wasn't there, but we can read that: the results are available online. We ourselves take these issues into account in the broad trade agreement on trade policy. So that's where the feedback takes place. If there is another suggestion to improve this further, I would like to hear it, given its importance. Mr. Chairman, I have the next cups. Shall I mention them in the context of your and my time management?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u168	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u169	First, investment protection, then Mr Öztürk's question as to why the people in the country were not asked and then the amendment tabled by Mrs Van Weerdenburg. That's about it in the first term. The ICS, Investment Court System, is a much discussed theme, which has also been written about. Questions have been put about this by Mr Voordewind, Mrs Diks, Mrs Ouwehand, Mr Alkaya and Mr Amhaouch; of course Mr Baudet referred to them in his speaking time yesterday. Let's take a step back in terms of investment protection. What exactly are investment treaties for? These are really tools that are used to promote private investment in countries with a less robust legal or governance system. These private investments are extremely important for achieving the sustainable development goals. Most countries don't want aid, they want trade. Many countries have this as their national priority, but of course sustainable trade. These are long-term, large-scale investments, often with large risks that investors are expected to take. So in all years, the investment protection mechanisms were welcomed by those who were on the bus and thought: shall we or shall we not? It can make a big difference for many countries in their investment environment. Of course, it is not the case that we leave investment treaties in the closet and say: it was once a well-negotiated instrument or mechanism; it worked, we never received claims, at least not on the Dutch side, so we leave it that way. Really all praise for my predecessor, Lilianne Ploumen. It has been instrumental in addressing and reviewing ISDS by replacing it with the Investment Court System. This meant modernising and making Dutch investment treaties more sustainable. She really did. That's very difficult, but she got everyone. It has also led to the model text, which has been discussed several times in the Chamber. A recurring issue here is, of course, the access of non-direct stakeholders, such as NGOs, representatives of civil society and trade unions, to investment dispute resolution procedures. I agree with the position of former Minister Ploumen in this. Dispute resolution in investment treaties is open to direct stakeholders: the investor and the government. This does not mean that governments and investors cannot be addressed by third parties if they violate the laws and regulations. If the law in the country in question does not meet the minimum international requirements or if the government does not enforce the law, this does not mean that Dutch companies operating in these countries are not subject to certain laws and standards. I also found it striking that Mrs Diks did indeed start with the case of Angola. Excuse me, Mrs Van den Hul has started her contribution. I have also called on the companies to do so, and I have made it clear to them that it is in the ultimate interest of the company's reputation but also of our confidence that they comply with the guidelines of international corporate social responsibility. And there are procedures for that. However, the renewal in the ICS excludes its letterbox companies, promotes transparency, which becomes the standard of settlement and is impartial, independent dispute resolution. The supporters and opponents have all mentioned these points. The ICS is public law, provides transparency and independence and improves on the so far private and protected legal process. So why we have this mechanism with Canada, you know from earlier statements I made and I think that Minister Ploumen has done the same. We didn't think this was necessary, because we know from Canada that there is a robust, accessible legal system. It is not necessary for the Netherlands either. But we have lost this battle within the EU and with Canada, so we need to take the opportunity to make this instrument work as effectively as possible. We just think we can do this. We have been asked about the risks and how many claims there may be. There was a lot to hear in the public debate: there were suggestions that all kinds of companies could either come up with fictitious claims or possibly lose profits through the ICS. That is not the case as far as we are concerned. Also, the suggestion that claims under CETA will paralyze regulations in the area of municipal housing, child care legislation even that I have seen coming along.. or will paralyze the climate transition, is not based on truth. It's really important to say this. It's been carefully negotiated. There are criteria for this. The rules on investment protection under CETA do not differ from the functioning of general principles of good governance under Dutch administrative law. If a co-government or the government adheres to these rules on government transactions laid down in Dutch law, it does not have to worry about a successful claim under CETA. We have 80 investment treaties with other countries, including Mexico or other countries where US companies have subsidiaries. That was Mr Alkaya's question. I'm sure I'll answer it, because then he might be able to build on that. The question was whether multinationals could start business through the Netherlands and whether it was true that American companies or perhaps multinationals that might have subsidiaries in Canada could also sue the Netherlands in the same way. How many companies meet the term "significant business activities"? Well, we have 80 investment treaties, including, for example, Mexico or other countries where US companies have significant subsidiaries, which do not include a requirement for substantial business activities. Those were the other treaties. The oldest has indeed been in operation for more than fifty years. There's never been a claim against the Netherlands, even by American companies, that's really important to remember. The thresholds will be raised especially in the case of CETA. Letterbox companies are excluded and independence is increased. We see that as a huge improvement. Then there is the issue of CETA and foreign investors. We must not be mistaken: this is not a VIP structure. A company can also choose to simply use the Dutch legal system and rely on rules of government negotiation laid down in Dutch law. Recourse to the judge is something other than being right. It's very careful. Indeed, the definition of "significant business activities" requested by Mr Alkaya is not detailed in CETA or the ICS. I agree. However, it is based on the number of employees, the number of investments and the length of stay. Letterbox companies are therefore excluded. In the end, of course, anyone can always file a claim. But if you are afraid of claims, you have to look at the truth and the substantial value and content of such a claim. Then Mr Alkaya also asked why Canada has achieved a privilege from NAFTA through renegotiation and would not want to do so with the EU. Aren't we afraid that we're going to have an obsolete system that's gonna have to be kicked in a few years' time? I do not know the details of Canada's recital and the negotiations with Mexico and the US, but we all know that there was enormous pressure to reach a trade agreement with the US at all. They did not expect that: the Trump administration made an unexpected decision and this is part of a package, I think. But we do understand that the United States has insisted that it be dealt with differently. That's the biggest voice in the market here. Then I think it is about a political-economic weighting and the huge intertwined interests of Canada and the US in terms of trade, commuting and so on. We'll go with Canada and see how this mechanism works. A question was also asked, perhaps not by Mr Alkaya, but by Mr Amhaouch. He said, "Can we look into it in the long run?" I think that is an important example. It is true that we have not yet ratified CETA, either in the Netherlands or in a number of other countries, and ICS will only enter into force if everyone has ratified CETA and it is fully agreed. Only then can we say that ICS is going to work. After a few years, you can only look further to see if there has indeed been improper use of ICS, whether it is too slow or too expensive, or whether there are better alternatives. Right now, my commitment is that we need to look at that. I think that's very relevant. But it's still a long shot, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u170	I would like to make two comments on the argument, which the Minister now repeats, that there would never have been a claim against the Netherlands. I have also drawn attention in my own contribution to the fact that the Netherlands has often been used by multinationals to start claims in other countries, precisely because of such conventions. At the same time, it was said in the first term of another party, I believe the CDA, that there has never been a successful claim against a Member State of the European Union. But it's often appropriate. A claim has been filed against Germany which is appropriate, and there are other examples. Would the Minister not be prepared, with this in mind, to try to get this part out of the treaty, as did the United States? Because why should the United States succeed and not a large market like the European Union?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u171	Well, there are more things that the United States is doing well right now and the European Union is not. This applies not only to CETA and ICS. But in answer to your question, the treaty is ratified in its entirety. There's no change. Since the moment of adoption in 2016, when the cabinet signed, no change is possible. This is it. It's been a long negotiation. We still see the benefits of ICS, in the modernisation, accessibility, independence and exclusion of letterbox companies. I also assume that in the past the Netherlands produced elsewhere, precisely because the Netherlands still had the letterbox company concept on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u172	I acknowledge that some positions have shifted in the Chamber on this subject, unlike those of the Socialist Party. But we have been very opposed to this part from the beginning. Also in 2016 and far before, we were already opposed to this. I don't really get an answer to the question why the Minister wouldn't be willing to renegotiate. The United States even had a treaty. The North American Free Trade Treaty NAFTA had already entered into force. And yet they said: this is important enough to go back to the table to get something else done. Why should the European Union not be able to achieve this at a less far-reaching stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u173	The treaty is signed and we are proud of the ICS. It's very nicely negotiated by my predecessor Lilianne Ploumen. It's an improvement. It could work. But we didn't think it was necessary for Canada. Breaking a treaty completely open and not ratifying it would be completely out of line. I think it would be a huge loss if you looked at everything we have achieved and achieved through CETA and the negotiated treaty. It's not something we can break open. The Trump administration and the Trudeau administration were engaged in a renegotiation process. This is finished, since 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u174	I'm gonna keep going on this one anyway. Now the Minister says 'we are proud of ICS', when she has said over the last few days that we did not want it, but that it is in fact there. How can you say that you did your best not to get it in and that the Netherlands lost it, but still say that you are a little proud of it when we talk about ratification? Isn't it one thing or the other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u175	No, I'm not. I can be proud of the mechanism and I can also say that it is not relevant in relation to Canada. That's what I said. The mechanism is a great improvement. It can be very useful, for example in relation to Vietnam or another country, because that is what it is meant for. We didn't think it was relevant to Canada. But that doesn't mean it's not a good improvement. That's what's left of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u176	The next question is from Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u177	I don't have a question. I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. I'm just looking at the clock. The Minister has been working on her response for more than two hours. This debate is actually about the guarantees that the Christian Union has asked for. At every point that concerns me, the Minister answers "my commitment is," "I'm talking," "I'm going to discuss it" or "I'm working on it." She just said she's been talking since January 30th. If the Christian Union then asks for a deadline for the outcome of that effort, the Minister says: before the votes. But the votes are Tuesday. This debate has been planned for months. The concerns have been known since 2016.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u178	What is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u179	We are having a very important debate here, but the Minister is not giving us any answers. We promised to be here until 1 p.m. yesterday, but the Minister had to reply briefly and concisely. Well, that usually doesn't work. There won't be any answers. I'm really having trouble getting us shipped off with a letter right now. I don't know if that's gonna be a wager letter or a letter about the results of the stakes. We might get that letter Monday afternoon, and then we'll have to vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u180	When it comes to order, here's the thing. If I do not count the dinner break, yesterday nine hours was spent on the first term of office. Nine o'clock. A lot of questions have been asked. That also means that the cabinet has to answer those questions. It'll take time. We have agreed on the number of interruptions and the duration of the second term. If that is not enough, the Chamber may, at the end of the day, make other procedural proposals. Voting may also be postponed on request if a majority supports it. I suggest that we continue with the agreements we have made and simply complete the response. You can also express your criticism in second term. It is important that we continue the debate, also in view of other debates that are still on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u181	I couldn't agree more. I really do not want to postpone the votes or anything at all. But I have to say that I do not know how many hours we are debating and that there will be no answers. And it's not like the minister hasn't had enough time to prepare. I would like to talk to the Minister about this letter, whatever it may be, because it will raise questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u182	Mrs. Ouwehand, also on the order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u183	I have a proposal for how we could do it. I think that Mrs Van Weerdenburg has a point to make: it is only after the debate that it becomes clear about these guarantees. Actually, I don't think that's possible. If the Minister sends that letter to the Chamber this afternoon and we do the second term tonight, then we have completed everything before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u184	Then I would like to have a reaction from the Chamber to this order proposal, because it is up to the majority of the Chamber to make a choice. Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u185	That seems to me to be a good proposal, so a letter this afternoon and a second term tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u186	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u187	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u188	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u189	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u190	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u191	No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u192	I understand the request, but I think it is wise that we should just finish the debate and vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u193	If I had the illusion that this would make any difference... But I think it's already established, so no support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u194	I think we need to get everything we have from this very important debate, so we need support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u195	I too understand the concern, but I agree with what Mr Alkaya said. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u196	There is a clear majority in favour of continuing the debate. I suggest we do that. We continue with an interruption by Mrs Diks on the block about investment and arbitration. This is her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u197	Mr President, can you imagine how important this interruption is! The Minister just made it very clear that there can be no question of us being able to change anything in the Treaty. She has indicated this on several occasions, and that is very clear to me. Despite this, Article 19 of the Vienna Convention leaves the possibility open. We have tried to look into it, and in our view it is so that the Netherlands might still make a reservation on the ICS. And that wouldn't have torpedoed CETA. I can see from the Minister's face that she is wondering: how specific is this question? We could also come back to this in the second term. I think this could be extremely crucial. If the Netherlands could make that reservation, would the Minister consider it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u198	I have to double check this with the house lawyers first, because this is a different assessment than that of the cabinet. But I want to make sure of this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u199	The Minister will return to this in the second term. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u200	I would like to return to the concerns of civil society. There are. We have seen this several times here. We have received letters for a reason, signed by more than 70 NGOs from all over the world, from north to south, from east to west. I think, quite frankly, that the Minister is getting over these concerns very quickly today. There are real concerns about civil society. They are also shared by my group. Civil society is already under pressure; the shrinking space, a debate that we fortunately often have with the minister here. Companies and repressive regimes are gaining ground. I already gave some sad examples of this in my first term. What does this concern, this real concern, mean for the support of CETA to civil society organisations? How does the Minister appreciate these concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u201	On the one hand, I was indeed a little surprised by the fact that Mrs Van den Hul brought up the global pressure on civil society. I'm totally sharing that. I support that, too. She knows that. This is what we are pulling together, even if you look at the layout and commitment of the strategic partnerships and the tender we have formulated together with this Chamber. When I think of the shrinking space of civil society, I don't think of Canada right away. I am thinking of issues that are sensitive in Canada, but not on this issue. That's one. We really need to get that sharp. This is a trade agreement. When it comes to access to civil society, access by potentially indirectly injured people, you know that my predecessor, your party colleague, has negotiated in the ICS that trade unions, third parties affected and civil society can have access to the mechanism through an amicus curiae. That may not have been the maximum achievable, but this is it right now. Can you go any further in the future? That's possible, but it's often very difficult on the right. The concerns of civil society organisations have tried to appoint the Cabinet as much as possible. That is what I think it is a broader debate. That's unrelated to the ICS. If that is social, you can also read a lot of reactions in the newspapers and a lot of articles that welcome a CETA. We're gonna talk to everyone. We have been, in the very long run-up to CETA in all the years of negotiations so far, by successive cabinets. There are always conversations. But in the end, to make the weighting, it is up to the government to say: we have assessed this, it has been discussed, we have made a maximum effort, this is the end result, we think it is important, we have signed for it and we are now in the process of getting it supported in the Chamber. That is the process, and I think that is correct. We take care away and name worries all the time. Because whatever we've noticed, and many MPs with me, there's a lot of information circulating that just isn't factual. Then I'd be worried too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u202	But taking the legitimate concerns of civil society organisations such as trade unions, minority representatives, human rights organisations and environmental organisations off as fake news is the whole problem. They are indeed real in terms of access to dispute resolution. And yes, ICS was a good step forward, but their position is still not the same in a world where we see repressive regimes and companies trample on human rights and environmental rights. And is it not important for the acceptance of this trade agreement, but above all for trade agreements in the future, to take a step forward now? Because this is now a trade agreement with Canada, but it is also a blueprint for trade agreements with countries with a rule of law that is much less robust. That's what we discussed yesterday. Then let me ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u203	You're asking a question, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u204	Yes, I do. How real does the Minister think it is that a country such as Italy is going to ratify CETA, where there are also serious concerns, precisely at the point we are talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u205	First of all, I would like to say something for the record. Mrs Van den Hul says that I dismiss the concerns of civil society as fake news. I didn't say that. I said: if I read what is circulating on social media, I would be worried too. So I'm not taking the concerns off as fake news; I'm saying there's factually incorrect information circulating about the treaty, and that's why I'd be worried. That is a very different phrase and a very different intention. The second point is that we, the Netherlands, are not waiting for other countries. We'll make our own decisions. For example, there could be a completely different cabinet in Italy or in another country and a completely different formation, which might think everything is wonderful or everything is terrible. We have to weigh that up ourselves. At the moment, it is not a matter of how other countries look at it. There are 13 countries. I can also say the opposite. Indeed, Denmark, Sweden and Finland are also the leading countries that anticipate sustainability, women's rights, trade and the role of trade unions. Regardless of the colour of the cabinet, these are usually progressive and internationally oriented countries. They signed a long time ago. In Germany, it is also taking on good forms. So it's en-and-and-and. If we only look at the example of other countries in order not to have to make our own assessment, that is not the choice of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u206	Then the Minister has misunderstood my words. My concern is not to take an example of the way in which the debate is being held in other countries. I have the next call to the cabinet. We have heard all the concerns and objections that exist in the Netherlands and in this Chamber, at least in this part of the Chamber, regarding the issue of civil society's access to that investment protection. We note that there are concerns in Italy, but also in Germany and France, about exactly the same point. So why don't we just make sure we raise the bar? No, we should not retreat behind the dikes, but, as I said, we should go up the barricades to raise the bar, especially for trade agreements with countries where the rule of law is much less robust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u207	I do not think I can add anything in a new answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u208	Then the Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u209	I'm at Mr Öztürk's last set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u210	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen still has a question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u211	I would like to touch on that, because I think this is a very relevant point. On Monday, there was an opinion in the NRC of a professor of inclusive global law and a university lecturer in European law. They say: "The ICS, which allows companies to challenge States to a special arbitration tribunal, undermines the rule of law, widens the gap between citizens and politics, and makes it difficult for a fair and successful energy transition." That's what lawyers say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u212	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u213	How does the Minister feel about that? Apparently, the objections and concerns of NGOs and all kinds of civil society organisations and the objections of this section and that part of the Chamber are being overcome. It is said that we have negotiated this very well and this is very nice. But this is what legal scholars in the Netherlands say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u214	I can quote from one lawyer another who says it does not harm. It is the opinion of the Cabinet, as stated by many legal scholars, that it does not infringe the right and the judicial position of governments to conduct, implement and make adjustments in the public interest, for public health and so on, including the energy transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u215	The Minister continues her speech with the remaining block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u216	It's the rest of the block. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen mentioned a statement and asked a question about the association agreement with Ukraine. She asks the minister if we learn from our mistakes. I assume that she is referring in particular to the case of Ukrainian chicken meat under the Association Agreement. This was indeed a rather serious looming error in the association agreement on various categories of chicken meat and related tariff quotas. That was very undesirable. I think it has been discussed in a lot of committees, including from time to time in mine, but fortunately DCFTA also provides effective mechanisms for resolving such problems, so that has happened. It has to be learned, it always is, but it is wider than this treaty. Mr Alkaya asked: "Are you really prepared to guide such an outdated historic treaty through parliament? Isn't it much more appropriate to seek a much larger majority in parliament and go back to Brussels to stand here in parliament with a much better agreement?" You have to imagine that you've been negotiating over treaties for a long time. These are complex, complex processes with many interests. Then it's done. It's not like it was negotiated 20 years ago. We're talking about 2016. This is recent in the history of trade negotiations. It's not perfect; I'm repeating myself. It is balanced in the field of trade, with modern investment mechanisms. As you know, it doesn't start until we're all through it. There's no way to adjust it anymore. I am prepared to guide this modern, balanced treaty through Parliament, because we are also here today. Otherwise, I should have grabbed my shit and just gone back to the office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u217	Mr Alkaya's last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u218	This is my last question. Whether it is a modern and balanced treaty, there are differences of opinion. It is certain that it is comprehensive, consists of thousands of pages and what will mean for the Netherlands. That is why I have a question for the Minister and the Cabinet. We are also dealing with an amendment from the PVV. That calls for a two-thirds majority. I welcome the amendment. But if it didn't make it, would it not be more appropriate not to hold such a comprehensive one-seat treaty, because that's what it looks like now, if we look at the proportions by piloting Parliament, but looking for a greater majority and addressing some of our concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u219	I can imagine. Of course, it is always nicer to be able to carry treaties through a parliament by a larger majority, especially when it comes to an internationally oriented country like the Netherlands. But I also see it as the mission and duty of the cabinet to stand for things that have been negotiated, where we have signed and which are important at this time. That's what I said at the beginning. This is not the time to go back, because the balance is really in the execution. I am convinced that the many advantages will also be known in the implementation of CETA, if we come to that. That is why I am going straight to Mr Bishop. Shouldn't we go back to the drawing board? I have just said this in response to Mr Alkaya. You also asked whether a new treaty not only serves the interests of investors, but also the interests of those who stand up for market protection, sustainability and social justice. I honestly believe that we have already discussed a great deal of the questions and the statement in Mr Bishop's appeal. Sustainability is enshrined in this treaty. We look at sustainability and climate standards. And of course, social justice is close to everyone's heart. It's closely linked. We can also, in part, strengthen this through the use of CETA on labour rights, but it must also be regulated at national level. That is why accompanying policies are always important, especially for vulnerable or sensitive sectors and, of course, in other ways, the vulnerable in our country. But that requires national policies and the right finances. Then there is a question from Mrs Ouwehand about a quote from my colleague Mr Blok on the Brexit. I'm glad he's here, because I don't have the whole quote. So I'm going to take the quote given by Mrs Ouwehand: that it's unfair in the context of the UK, the cabinet understands; why don't you understand that for Canada? Maybe Mrs Ouwehand can put her own quote of a quote in remembrance. The difference is that the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union; it was a full member. We're going into a changing relationship, but as close to each other as possible. Canada comes from farther, not just geographically. We're looking for an expansion. So if you look at the ambitious relationship, with the UK, we certainly look at a wide, deep, wide range of areas, including security and other social issues, for example. With Canada, we are talking about a trade treaty, with different legal traditions, for example, just because they are in the Commonwealth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u220	I think it would be good if the Foreign Minister just repeats his quote for a moment, because he literally said: it is not fair if farmers in the UK should be allowed to use a poison and farmers in Europe should not be allowed to sell those UK products in Europe. That's not fair. My question was: if you understand that in relation to the United Kingdom, you understand that in relation to another country, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u221	We have discussed the use of pesticides and WTO rules for a long time. With the UK, we are not looking for a treaty based on the WTO. We're really looking for something much more. I think that Mr Blok might not have immediately envisaged the WTO and pesticides. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u222	The Minister concludes her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u223	Then there is a question from Mr Bishop about the cumulative effect of trade on agriculture. For the most part, Dutch agriculture benefits mainly from trade agreements, especially in the field of agriculture. But if you are asking about the future position of the cabinet on Mercosur, I must say that it is simply too early to do so. We look forward to the debates in the future. The European Commission has indicated that the final agreement will be in the Council's decision-making process no later than November 2020. But I would like to talk here about CETA, knowing that a number of Members have already expressed their position. For the sake of today's debate, we need to talk about CETA. Then there is a question from Mr Voordewind about strengthening, or in the wider debate, about CETA and international corporate social responsibility. It is, of course, important that we should be able to move with a country such as Canada on these issues. You have also heard me say earlier that we are committed to this and that we want to look at it. Indeed, it is an easy conversation. You also know from various AOs about international corporate social responsibility and the policy of the cabinet that we are committed to at a European level. Companies are also calling for this, in terms of the level playing field, but also of clarity, clarity and competitiveness within Europe and beyond. We're gonna have another debate on imvo. You know we're working very hard on an evaluation. We do not have the results yet, but if the evaluation shows that we are not making sufficient progress, that is also the commitment of the government agreement, and that binding measures are needed, then all options are on the table. Then I can also think of soil legislation. I hope that will in any case find broad support in the Chamber. But we'll look at the evaluation first. Of course, we'll discuss it in other AO's again. But soil legislation must, as far as I am concerned, be an option. That's what I've been telling you before. Because volunteering and non-committalism cannot always go hand in hand, especially where we find wrongdoing. Regulation can be very clear about that. Then there is a final question from Mr Öztürk, before I move on to the amendment tabled. Why hasn't anyone in the country been asked? Why has it entered into force on a provisional basis without the Court's permission? You know it was signed in October. The provisional application concerns only those parts of the Convention which fall within the competence of the EU and which are applied temporarily or provisionally by the EU. The parts of CETA which fall within the competence of the Member States shall be excluded from provisional application. From a formal point of view, therefore, the provisional application is not subject to approval by the Dutch Parliament. However, at the request of the Netherlands on 18 October 2016, we organised, or have organised, a special RBZ Trade on the signing and provisional application of CETA. I also believe that the question was actually about abolishing the referendum law in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Then my final contribution to the first term is the amendment to item No. 8 tabled by Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV. Mr Bishop and Mr Baudet also supported this. The reaction of the cabinet to Article 91 (3) of the Constitution: the Constitution concerns concrete provisions in the Treaty that deviate from the Constitution. It is not clear which provisions of CETA are envisaged by the applicant. CETA does not contain any provisions derogating from the Constitution according to the Cabinet's estimates. There are derogations from the Constitution where a treaty deviates from a specific provision of the Constitution, including the underlying principles. The applicant refers to Article 81 GW. This article looks at formal legislation by government and State General, regulates Parliament's control over the government in ordinary legislative procedures and contributes to democratic legitimacy of legislation. This concerns national laws. Excuse me, I just need to read this literally, Mr. Chairman. You can imagine I didn't come up with this on my own. The Constitution contains specific articles relating to treaties, Articles 90 to 95. These articles have been elaborated in the Rijkswet approval and publication treaties. Parliament's control of treaties is exercised through these provisions of the Constitution and the Rijkswet, which thus guarantee democratic legitimacy of treaties. Then with regard to the Committees under CETA. This is my last sentence. Future decisions of the Committees should be within the scope of the CETA Convention. Decisions in committees shall be taken by consensus. Prior to that decision, the Council shall adopt the position to be taken on behalf of the EU within the relevant committee. As a member of the Council, the Netherlands also has a say in this decision-making process. I reject this amendment on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u224	Yes, exactly the last thing the Minister says: consensus. So everything she says is missing something. That is where parliamentary control is lacking. I have already asked in the debate... I believe that the officials have been looking for two examples for an hour and a half, in which the European Parliament had something to do with its milk. They haven't found it yet. But the fact that they have to look for examples alone shows that there is no system in which representatives of the people at both European and national level can change or prevent decisions taken by the treaty committees. So there is no such thing, and that is also what the Minister cannot mention. So it's not like I can point out anything in CETA that differs from the Constitution. No, the lack of parliamentary control differs from Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u225	The specific examples simply come back in the second term. The officials sitting there are not the officials looking for them because they are in the officials' room. So I don't know if and, if so, what examples they've found. This is more for the optics and further this is the opinion of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u226	That's not an answer, is it? I'll explain why it's different. That is in the fact that the whole of the CETA Convention is not covered, and it is not covered by an article that provides for the control of a parliament, any parliament. That is why it differs from Article 81 of the Constitution. And it has to be because otherwise it has to be two-thirds majority. So the answer you give confirms my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u227	The answer is the government's advice. It's clearly spelled out why. I have mentioned Article 90 and Articles 90 and 95 and the fact that the European Council and Parliament are consulted in the established procedures of Union law for a final determination. We consider that to be parliamentaryly covered. If there is one more question, I will come back to that in the second term to confirm it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u228	Mrs Ouwehand with, I think, her last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u229	Yeah, last question. The minister's done answering her question. Unfortunately, we are missing 50PLUS in this debate. I understand Mrs. Van Brenn is out of the running for a while. So get better on behalf of all of us. Their election program says they're against CETA. Then it is a pity that this party is not in this debate to be confirmed. That's why I'm asking the Minister. Is there a 50PLUS deal behind the scenes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u230	I do not know if I am obliged to answer this, but: no, not that I am aware at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u231	That's an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u232	I do not think it is proper to talk about parties that are not present in the debate. The Party for Animals doesn't like that either, and we always made a point of that ourselves and I myself when I was still with the Party for Animals. So I don't think that's nice, but okay. I still miss an answer to my questions on privacy and data protection and how this is at stake in the CETA Convention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u233	I'll get back to you in second term. It has been forgotten in the answer, but I can refer to GDPR. I also know that there are differences between the EU, the US and Canada. But I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u234	The Minister will come back to it. That concludes the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation's speech. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs to continue the reply of the government in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will answer the questions surrounding the Strategic Partnership Agreement that is before us today at the same time as the CETA Convention. I will also answer the questions relating to the wider international strategic consequences of whether or not the treaty is adopted by the Netherlands. Quite rightly, a large number of Members of Parliament have also raised the question of what a treaty such as CETA and the strategic partnership agreement mean in a world where international agreements are under enormous pressure. First of all, the questions that have been raised about the strategic partnership agreement. That starts with the question that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen just asked Mr Kaag and which Mrs Diks also addressed, namely how to deal with passenger data, the Passenger Name Record. Part of the strategic partnership agreement is that both parties, Canada and Europe, including Canada and the Netherlands, share the importance of the protection of personal data and that we will work to ensure it. Indeed, the European Court of Justice has ruled that the existing convention on the registration of passenger data between EU and Canada is in breach of EU law. This means that the Commission is authorised by the Member States, including the Netherlands, to conclude a new agreement on passenger data. This is also very much in line with the agreements we make when we adopt the convention that is before us today and which obliges both parties to work for the proper protection of passenger data and wider personal data. I would almost say: one more reason to support this treaty. Mrs Diks specifically asked what we see in practice of this broader embedding of this trade agreement. One of the positive aspects of this treaty is that it not only deals with trade, which in itself is important, we certainly do not disagree on this, but also very consciously points out to both sides the role we both want to play, Canada and the Netherlands, Canada and the European Union, in a world that has a huge interest in multilateral agreements in areas such as human rights and the environment. It's very good that this was recorded. Then where did that lead, Mrs. Diks asks. In fact, we are talking about a treaty which has not yet been adopted, but which, fortunately, has already been used in practice. Since the signing of the Convention, agreements have been reached between the European Union and Canada on combating marine litter, joint election observation and joint participation in EU civilian missions in the Sahel. Last Tuesday, both the PvdA and GroenLinks asked me for greater Dutch involvement in the Sahel. It is a fine illustration of how a treaty like this can contribute to that ambition. Canada has also become a member of the Venice Commission, the committee which controls the rule of law in Europe and which currently plays a more important role than ever, because of course the rule of law is under pressure in many places. This accession, too, since the signing of the Treaty, underlines how similar Canada and the Netherlands and Canada and the European Union are and how important it is for us not only to establish these agreements, but also to implement them quickly. Mrs. Diks is right about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u236	A final interruption by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u237	Oh, my, the last one. I will come back to the previous point: the privacy of passenger data. An investigation has been carried out on behalf of NGOs and consumer organisations. In collaboration with the University of Amsterdam, a report has been published that shows that the provisions in CETA on data protection are not sufficient to protect citizens from data exchange, in order to protect citizens in their very valuable privacy. Can the Minister comment on that for a moment? It is stated that CETA undermines the protection of personal data of EU citizens. As I said in my amount, this is due to the membership of the Five Eyes, a group of countries that are subject to CETA due to cross-border data flows, but which have far-reaching listening powers, which means that the data of EU citizens is not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u238	I have already indicated that the European Court of Justice has made the observation that the protection of passenger data, of personal data, has not yet been sufficient. That seems to me to be an even greater state of holiness than researchers, for which I also have great respect, of course. The European Commission has a mandate from the European Member States to conclude a new agreement with Canada on the protection of passenger data. The convention now before us is binding on both parties to make good agreements on the protection of passenger data. So the observation that it is not yet perfect is correct and was already done by me. The task of doing so is to agree with each other if we agree to this treaty. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the very essential...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u239	Sorry, Mr Jetten on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u240	I have a very short question. Can the Minister give an estimate of the time needed to reach these improved agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u241	I think it's in our hands. The sooner we ratify this treaty, the sooner we can get back to Canada: we have done our part, can we now also do the implementation? Moreover, I think that Mr Jetten and I agree on this immediately. This brings me to a point which Mr Jetten and others were quite right to draw attention to. This debate in the Netherlands is taking place under a very strong guise. Of course, I often hear that the world is watching the Netherlands. Sometimes I think "whatever," but this time I don't think "whatever." We live in a time when the conclusion of international treaties is under enormous pressure. That should be at the heart of the Netherlands, and that is something that many people in this Chamber are concerned about; I know that. It will also delight countries in the world if we fail to reach an agreement with Canada. Some of you have already mentioned the increasing power of China and Russia. They are countries we work with in areas, but we are really worried about when it comes to their commitment to human rights and international conventions. These countries will welcome the moment when a country like the Netherlands would block an agreement between the European Union and Canada. I think this debate is so important, also against the background of the role that a very large part of the parties in this Chamber are always demanding from the Dutch Government. Fortunately, I have been able to work very well in this cabinet with the Christian Union and the SGP, but also with GroenLinks and the PvdA, when it comes to international obligations. They are also parties who often call on myself and my colleagues in their own way to allow the Netherlands to fight above their weight, to play a leading role. I'm allowed to stay in your room every day this week. I am glad to see Mr Van Ojik come in because I was just about to quote him. On Tuesday I had two debates in which Mr Van Ojik was present. He wasn't the only one in which I was asked a number of times to let the Netherlands play a leading role. Mr Van Ojik asked me about treaties around the Arctic. Canada is the largest country bordering the Arctic after Russia, but I do not need to explain that to Mr Van Ojik. The question was also asked by both GroenLinks and the PvdA about the very worrying situation in the Sahel, about the situation in Libya and specifically by the PvdA about Nigeria. This is just this week. I'm allowed to be in your midst more often. These are all examples on one day that parties asked me: The Netherlands, do you want to play a leading role in international politics? That's against the backdrop of a beautiful tradition. Again, this cabinet also often cooperates with your parties. I commend you for that. This is in the ambition of allowing a country like the Netherlands, which has a huge interest in international cooperation, to fight above its weight. That's what we say to each other all the time. And if we want to make that happen, it is extremely important that we should be able to conclude a treaty as part of the European Union, which is the connection in which we have agreed to conclude such agreements and whose functioning is crucial, and that we can do so with a country like Canada. Indeed, in Canada, in the year we commemorate 75 years of liberation, I always think back to the heroics of those Canadian men here in the war. Everyone in their own way, but we need to think about that. But with Canada, I am also thinking of the enormous role Canada is playing on the world stage, shoulder-to-shoulder with us. That's in NATO. There are also currently Canadian troops on European soil, on the eastern border, in the Baltic states. Canada worked with us in Mali, in MINUSMA. When we could no longer supply helicopter capacity, Canada could help us. Canada is a very valuable ally in our fight for nuclear disarmament. That is why I am glad to see Mrs van den Hul standing, because I know how important that is to her. Canada is one of the countries with us in the special Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Initiative, a special group of countries, partly NATO, partly scattered around the world, trying to give each other an impetus to nuclear disarmament. When I look at the agenda for next year, I see the following. The Netherlands will become a member of the Human Rights Council, for many parties. We were able to achieve results there around Yemen. The fact that there are international observers is the result of my predecessor Koenders' efforts. This is an area in which we have worked with Canada in the past and will have to do so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u242	Mrs. Van den Hul has been standing for quite some time. You're in the middle of an argument, but I don't want to interrupt her now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. I've got to get something off my chest. Because we are hearing something that we heard yesterday, and for which I drew attention in my speech, namely the false contradiction created by the cabinet in the vein of 'you are for or against Canada, you are for or against trade, you are for or against international cooperation'. There are a lot of parties here that are critical of the treaty that is now before us, but they do stand firm for international cooperation and a world of solidarity, rather than a world behind the dikes. So I repeat my appeal once again: let us not stay behind those dikes, but go up the barriers, and not fall for false oppositions from before and against. I'm really throwing it far from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u244	Mrs van den Hul here pretends that it is possible to blow and keep the flour in the mouth when it comes to international politics. Mrs. Van den Hul knows better. That is precisely why the Labour Party deliberately supported the CETA Convention at the time. And again, I greatly appreciate the way in which we have since been able to work with the Labour Party and other parties in difficult international decisions, which are never perfect. By the way, national regulations are never perfect from the point of view of one party. It always has a high level of compromise. However, Mrs van den Hul is well aware that a treaty like this has an enormous impact on the wider question of whether agreements can still be reached within the European Union. Other European countries depend on what this Parliament decides. That is the right of this Parliament, but it is. So if we are going to other European countries in the future, I am going to do so every week, frankly, to ask them to cooperate with us in the fight for human rights, women's rights or better conditions within Europe, then it makes a huge difference whether I am doing so as minister of a country that has just helped other countries to conclude a treaty that they wanted, or as minister of a country that has just blocked a treaty that all those countries said: we wanted to. They ask: what do you want now, the Netherlands? Mrs van den Hul really sees this coherence in full. I just gave a list of the tasks ahead of us with Canada. I refer to the Rohingya, the terrible human rights violations in Myanmar. This is a subject for which many in this Chamber have made a strong commitment, but also with the Labour Party and GroenLinks. There is currently a case pending before the International Court of Justice, where Myanmar has been sued. There is a possibility for countries to join. There are 160 countries in the world. Which countries join? The Netherlands and Canada. That's what we do on a subject that we find incredibly important. Unfortunately, in the United Nations peacekeeping mission, we have been dealing with sexual abuse. It is incredibly important that this is addressed. The Netherlands and Canada are at the forefront of this. Unfortunately, we in the United Nations find that sexual rights and birth control are under enormous pressure. There is a very broad agenda to limit those rights. The Netherlands and Canada stand shoulder to shoulder in a unfortunately too narrow coalition to counter that. Mr. Chairman. If the Netherlands did not agree to the treaty now before us, it would sound really deafening in the European Union, in Canada and wider in the world. I really appeal to the parties who have always shown their responsibility in terms of the international role that the Netherlands plays and must play, not to block a treaty with Canada. Because if, after such a blockade, the Netherlands once again has to ask for support in our fight for human rights, women's rights, peace and security, then our traditional friends will ask: The Netherlands, you are now asking for our support, but why did you abandon us in a treaty with Canada? In such a position, the Netherlands should not want to bring itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u245	This is fun. In a minute, it's about vacuum bombs. They always do this. First, it's just a trade deal, nothing to worry about. It's a trade treaty. But then it turns out there's a lot more going on. Then there will be a court of law, we will lose control of our food standards and our agricultural sector will no longer have any control over what is happening. And then there's a threat. If we do not sign this, then we can forget it when there will be an international crisis. Do you guys know what you're gonna risk if you do this? This is very interesting, also for the people who follow this. This is exactly the punch line of this whole thing. There is much more at stake, but that is not international peace and security, and neither the Dutch economy nor the Dutch economy, they both have nothing to do with this treaty, but the career of the people here who negotiated it. That is what Blok actually says: when I arrive later, I get stared at and I can forget about my international status.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u246	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u247	I just wanted to make that point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u248	On one point, Mr Baudet is right: there is much more at stake. The Netherlands has been a country far above its weight as a very successful trading country for 400 years. A country with leading universities. A country that has authority in the world because of what we all achieve, but that cannot function without the world around us, whether it is the port in Rotterdam, the gardeners in the Westland or ASML. All these jobs and developments can only take place as long as the Netherlands has good relations with other countries. This treaty is a treaty with Canada, a traditional ally and a very similar country, but it is also a treaty that we conclude with the countries that are directly around us. Those are the countries that buy our tomatoes, or not, and buy our computer chips, or not. All these countries are indeed looking at this decision. So Mr. Baudet is right: there's a lot more at stake here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u249	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u250	That is indeed the correct statement, Mr President. It's "Boo-dè" and not "Bau-det." I've explained that many times now. And with all his international experience, Mr. Blok doesn't manage to pronounce that right. This is a complete misconception... This argument or the attempt to make an argument that he raises here is a misconception of what trade is. We don't trade with each other because we like each other so much or because we're in that international circus, about which Mr. Blok was just being kind of tough. Every week he visits an international capital. His family's gonna be so proud of him, he's got a lot of stories to tell Aunt Bep on the birthdays. Wow, tough guy! But that's not why we're big as a country. We have simply become very good and great because we have fought our sovereignty, by detaching ourselves from the European Union of that time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u251	Your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u252	...the Spanish, Habsburg Empire, which also tried to rule our country from Brussels in a tyrannical manner. That is why the Netherlands has grown. And this treaty, this CETA agreement, is simply bad for the Netherlands. We have shown this in general here, with all the criticism that has come. Then you come and say: if we do not sign it, we will have problems with international peace and security, with the Rohingya and in Yemen. That has nothing to do with it. You bring in things that have nothing to do with it. Our chips are bought because they're good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u253	What's your question, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u254	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u255	Mr Boo-dè is going to do so, and I think this is a beautiful parallel to the history of the Netherlands, the independence of the Habsburg Empire. In that struggle, the Netherlands immediately started to seek allies. That had to be done: The Netherlands was not big enough at the time, and not now to operate independently. At the same time, the Netherlands was a great champion of free trade. Hugo de Groot, world famous, with his speech on the free sea: that was actually quite a political argument. It is, of course, in the interests of a free-trade country to be for a free sea. So the debate we are having here is indeed in a 400-year-old tradition, of a sovereign country that has always depended on cooperation with others for its prosperity and security, negotiations with others, but ultimately also concludes treaties with others. Because we've always done well, we're the prosperous country we're all so proud of, but that also means that we have to make the right choice now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u256	In conclusion, Mr Baudet on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u257	Mr Blok, the Minister, does not recognise the difference between international law and supranational law. I explained that yesterday. What Hugo de Groot advocates and what we have always done is to conclude treaties and make agreements with the countries around us. That's fine. What CETA is doing, like the EU, the European Court of Human Rights and the World Trade Organisation, is creating a new court that can then reinterpret those provisions that we agree on. So you lose control of what your country can and can't allow products on the market. That's what we're doing right now. So that comparison you're making doesn't make any sense at all. What we are doing now is something that Hugo de Groot had turned around in his grave. This is the opposite of international law. We're breaking down international law right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u258	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u259	The treaties that are before us contain a great deal: important trade agreements that Mr Kaag has addressed, and a whole series of more geopolitical agreements that I have gone into. It does indeed include an international arbitration mechanism, which Mr Kaag has addressed extensively and which she has extensively illustrated that it has been working in this way for a very long time and which is even better than the systems that already exist. Experience has taught us, because we already have a lot of these conventions and arbitration mechanisms, that it does not limit the Netherlands at all, but that the Netherlands would be extremely limited if we did not dare to close a treaty, which in many areas should be the interests of many Dutch people, because of ghost images about an arbitration mechanism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u260	Maybe it's time for some nuance. I don't know if everyone has the meeting schedule available. That's that green piece of paper, but if you look at that, you can see that it's actually two treaties. That's a little snowy. The first is on the adoption of the Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement CETA between Canada and the European Union. The second treaty, which I believe is particularly important, is the one the Foreign Minister is present with on the adoption of the strategic partnership agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Canada on the other. That's what it's about. It is, I think, also good in the direction of the potential opponents to make that distinction. Indeed, you can vote excellently against the CETA Convention and for the partner agreement. In this way, as an opposition, you also respond perfectly to the concerns of the burgeon...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u261	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u262	...the Secretary of State. I was gonna say "the mayor of foreign affairs," but that's getting a little complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u263	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u264	The horror story, I apologize for using the Minister's expression, is therefore not entirely justified. A distinction should be made between CETA on the one hand and the strategic partner agreement on the other. Does the Minister agree with me and would he agree with me on this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u265	I agree with the first part of Mr Bishop's speech in which he says that there are two treaties. That was the beginning of my speech. I don't agree with his statement. I know Mr Bisschop as a generally very well-considered reasoning man, so it doesn't matter whether or not the second Convention, the CETA Convention, is adopted. The tuning of one of the two treaties will sound just as deafening as the tuning of both treaties. Aligning a single treaty is still a message to other EU countries: we are blocking you from what you want. Those are the same countries that we will have to deal with again tomorrow and the day after tomorrow in all kinds of other areas. Aligning a single treaty means moving towards Canada, which is a traditional ally, but Mr Bishop and I agree that we do not want to cooperate more closely with that country in these important areas. It means to the rest of the world: The Netherlands, a country with a huge tradition of international cooperation and international law, the Netherlands, is blocking a treaty with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u266	This reasoning illustrates how detrimental it is that these two treaties are dealt with under one heading at the same time. Of course, it is extremely annoying to have to send the message if the House of Representatives does not agree with CETA. But at the same time, I would say, you shouldn't tie that indisputably to that strategic partner agreement. If the Chamber votes in favour, the Chamber says clearly: we are going to work together, but we do not think that Trade Agreement CETA is good enough at the moment. That sounds like a clear signal to me. Why should you so firmly tie yourself up and bind yourself with both hands by linking these treaties so emphatically to each other? That seems tactically inappropriate to me and not strategically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u267	Then I will join Mr Bishop's thought experiment. Suppose Mrs Kaag did the debate today and I did something different last night for nine hours, and that we would meet in two weeks' time on the strategic partnership agreement, after you had voted on CETA. Even so, the outside world will look: what are these Dutch doing with CETA? Because everyone knows very well how difficult it is to conclude a trade agreement in these days, how much pressure international cooperation is under. Everyone also knows how much the Netherlands is constantly defending all kinds of interests in Europe and how much it needs to realise its own interests. So even if we had dealt with the other treaty a month later, the consequence of a yes or a no would sound just as loud.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u268	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. Last night you agreed with the President that we would be finished with the whole debate by 1 p.m. today. That didn't work. That is why I propose that we proceed immediately with the second term, then suspend for lunch, because motions have already been announced, and finish the second term after lunch. This means that we will still be coming to the debate on NVWA, but not at the time of 2.15 p.m. We have also agreed before the beginning of the government's first term that the maximum duration of the second period is four minutes per group. I appeal to you: if it can be shorter, please do it shorter. Before we proceed to that second term, we suspend for five minutes for a sanitary stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u269	The next item is the continuation of the discussion on the adoption of the CETA trade agreement between the European Union and Canada and the adoption of the strategic partnership with Canada. Before the short break, I announced what the order of this debate is going to be. I will also tell Members that there will be a change in the schedule, which will lead to a later debate on NVWA. The debate that was planned afterwards will be removed from today's agenda. Members may begin on the second term of office. I would like to inform you that the Foreign Minister will have to leave the debate in a moment because of urgent commitments. We have agreed that the maximum speaking time is four minutes. I appeal to you to keep the interruptions really very limited in the second term. First of all, the floor of the Chamber is addressed to Mrs Diks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u270	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, that's it: the long-awaited CETA debate. What did we see? Coalition parties which, in spite of social views, are strongly in favour of it. Opposition parties who have also expressed great concern about the expected negative consequences of this treaty on behalf of at least 70 parties in society, a huge number of inhabitants in the Netherlands and Canada. Those concerns not only live in the Netherlands, but also in Canada. What else did we see? A passionate appeal from the cabinet to vote in favour, because without it the Netherlands would sink behind the dikes and the Netherlands would not be able to ask anything from others in the future, because yes, it did not agree with CETA. Nonsense, of course. As a chamber, we should not allow ourselves to be turned on our backs in that way. What else did we see? Oh, yes, a rather shabby play between the minister and the Christian Union. It is clear that the Christian Union has long agreed to some of the Minister's mirrors and beads before the debate. There will be some effort commitments, a handful of new customs officers and some guarantees and guarantees. In doing so, the Christian Union is being hunted into the woods. That's all apparently enough to move a coalition party that was mordicus against to "oh, what's wrong with this treaty anyway?" That is cynical politics, of which animals, climate and democracy are the direct object. One example: although oil already had a zero rate, it was precisely the abolition of the tariff on petroleum products that led to huge exports from the Netherlands worth 250 million. That doesn't make any sense if our country is working hard at the same time to reduce the use of fossil fuels. In short, Mr President, it is clear that GroenLinks is not convinced by the response of the ministers, for which I thank her and him and the officials, of course. Hopefully the First Chamber will make a better assessment. Mr. Chairman. You can make my party a constructive one. I would therefore like to reiterate that GroenLinks is certainly not against trade, but wants green, sustainable, animal-friendly and democratic trade agreements. To promote that, I have some motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that CETA seeks to exclude letterbox companies from investment protection through the ICS, requiring investors to carry out "significant business activities" in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties;]] [[noting, however, that no definition has been agreed of exactly what is considered to be "significant business activities";]] [[Whereas it is important that abuse of the right of claim by opening a letterbox company should be addressed as strictly as possible;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to rapidly establish and formalise a definition of "significant business activities" so that letterbox companies are excluded from investment protection under CETA in word and deed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CETA abolishes import tariffs on fossil fuels such as oil;]] [[Whereas it is important that trade policy serves the purpose of reducing greenhouse gas emissions and promoting energy transition, in line with the international agreements that exist to that end, such as the Paris Climate Agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that trade agreements in which the EU is a partner do not include a reduction in import tariffs on fossil fuels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that CETA leads to increased market access for meat and dairy from Canada, which is produced under less stringent animal welfare requirements compared to EU requirements;]] [[Whereas trade policy should be used to improve animal welfare rather than to facilitate a race to soil for the cheapest possible production;]] [[Whereas it is not fair to confront Dutch farmers with competition from meat and dairy products from Canada which have been produced with less regard for animal welfare, after Dutch farmers have been required by the government to invest more in animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that trade agreements in which the EU is a partner do not concern agricultural products,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-9]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks, Mr Alkaya and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-10]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Diks and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u271	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u272	Thank you, too. I call Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u273	Mr. Chairman. European treaties, I refer to the constitution and the trade treaties, are often controversial among the people. He sees that great powers are being transferred and that her own parliament has hardly any control anymore. People speak out against it. What we always see is the reaction of the cabinet: threatening disorder, seriously deluding itself and saying that everyone who is not in favour simply did not understand it. Anyone who had hoped for a change of wind with Minister Kaag has been deceived. The people who stand for human rights, the environment, the climate or the SDGs, for which the minister is responsible, simply did not understand. When you talk about values shared with Canada, the Party chooses for the Animals the side of those people in Canada who stand for those values. They say: planet over dough, no oil pipeline through an area of the original inhabitants, no tar sand oil, no poison use at the expense of the environment there and our farmers here. Minister Kaag has shown her true face. It is best for human rights, best for climate, best for biodiversity, but not if it is at the expense of earning a few bucks. Mr President, I have a number of motions for resolutions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, following a WOB request, the Canadian Government has partially disclosed the consultation reports of the CETA SPS Committee of March 2018;]] [[noting that these interview reports show that Canada is actively lobbying to persuade the European Commission to torment European standards for agricultural poison;]] [[noting that the parts of the interview reports on the Canadian deployment of pigmeat and beef had been eliminated;]] [[calls on the Government to make public as soon as possible the interview reports of the CETA Committees on Agricultural Poison and Meat,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u274	Mr President, it is clear that this is important. Because the Minister's line of defence is: we have these committees and we can put pressure on Canada to raise the standard. But the opposite happens. I am very much looking at the Christian Union, which has asked for guarantees to be able to vote in favour of this treaty. They can't be given. A memory of the Kunduz mission is compelling. The Christian Union is against torturing European standards, but that just happens. It is good news that Christian Union has said that Mercosur is too far away for us. It is hard for them to allow the farmers to swallow CETA, but if we can conclude today that Mercosur is going to leave the table at least, that is still a bright spot. It has to be done. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has recognised that standards in agriculture in Mercosur countries are lower than European standards and that the EU has no option of forcing them to be raised;]] [[Whereas the Mercosur Treaty significantly increases unfair competition for European farmers;]] [[noting that the Government has recognised that there are no enforceable agreements in the EU-Mercosur Convention that protect the Amazon or prevent illegal deforestation;]] [[expresses the need for the Mercosur Convention to be removed from the table;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the European Commission that the Netherlands is withdrawing support for the Mercosur Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Diks. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u275	I'm coming up with the final motion. The European Commission, which is therefore coming up with a Green Deal on the one hand and on the other hand saying 'o, we also need to conclude a treaty with America very soon', is simply a European Commission with a hypocritical agenda. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Commissioner for Trade has indicated that negotiations can be held with the United States on European standards to be met by US imports into the EU;]] [[noting that a few days later, the US Secretary of State for Agriculture stated that he wanted the European Union to open its borders to chicken meat processed with chemicals;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear to the European Commission and the United States that it is unacceptable for the Netherlands that chemical-treated chicken meat should enter the European market;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear to the European Commission that under no circumstances can European non-tariff barriers be reduced for agricultural products imported from the United States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u276	Following the motion on Mercosur, I have a question. Does the Animal Party want this cabinet to work on using the ongoing negotiations to raise the bar for a free trade agreement, in order to better protect climate and animal welfare, or does Mrs Ouwehand want the negotiations of the treaty simply to stop, because she does not want to make any international trade agreements at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u277	The Animal Party would like to make international agreements on trade, but Bolsonaro has single-handedly intimidated the original inhabitants, used violence against the original inhabitants and even killed people. The deforestation under his regime has become even worse than before, when we were already concerned about it. For the cultivation of feed for soya and beef, the Mercosur Convention presents Bolsonaro to the European market. We're not okay with that. And we've seen at CETA: you have to be on time with your objections. So if we're just gonna agree "that's off," then everyone knows where we're at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u278	Or we agree: we are not going to conclude the Mercosur agreement if it is not improved on those points and the pressure on the Brazilian President is not increased to put an end to this lawless deforestation. That is the way in which things can be done in the international context, by taking place at the negotiating table and increasing pressure on other countries with our large European market with 450 million consumers. Walking away from those conversations certainly doesn't make the situation in Brazil any better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u279	But Mr Jetten is a bit naive in that, because all these years I have had these trade debates with the cabinet, you could ask these things. Then the reaction was always: that is the commitment of the Dutch government, we do not know of course whether it will succeed, and we are 27 countries. So we'll ask, but you won't get a guarantee. Then we asked: is it a breaking point for the Netherlands? No, we don't want to say that either, was the answer. So far you would think that giving a gift to the Dutch market, at the expense of our farmers and at the expense of climate, the forests and animals, in exchange for the export of German cars should be just a piece of cake and that we would say here in the Netherlands: boys, we just don't do it, we're done with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u280	Thank you for your speech. I call Mr Alkaya, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two further motions, a number of final remarks and one final question. I'll start with the motions, at least we've had them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that efforts are already being made in the working groups of the EU-Canada Joint Committee (CETA) to reduce European standards;]] [[calls on the Government to take initiatives to increase democratic control and transparency for the European Parliament and national parliaments on the Treaty Committees in free trade agreements such as CETA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u282	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the EU-Canada Free Trade Agreement (CETA) should become the "golden standard" for a new generation of trade agreements;]] [[whereas CETA contains the contested claim system, the Investment Court System (ICS), which may result in billions of claims on, for example, cigarette packets without brands or other measures to protect people and the environment;]] [[Considering that a similar claim system has been removed from the revised trade agreement between North American countries, NAFTA, and our own minister has said that she does not consider such a system necessary in the CETA Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to make maximum efforts to remove exclusive protection from CETA for foreign investors and similar agreements in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Alkaya. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u283	Mr. Chairman. I am very honored to be here as a representative of the people and to have this kind of important debate about the future of our country. Yet it hurts to see that after so many hours of debate it feels like a play. The substantive debate was good. We were able to exchange the arguments well, but the proportions in the back rooms had already been confirmed in advance. The support of the Christian Union was apparently bought with a number of things. The Christian Union has turned. A line has been agreed in the coalition, which has been repeated repeatedly here, in order to turn our minds and explain to the outside world that the Christian Union has made such a 180 degree turn. Many falsehoods have also been preached, while in recent times we have been accused of doing so from the very first day of opposition to this treaty. Firstly, it has been said by the D66 Group that investment protection would only be about expropriation. If companies that invest in a particular country are improperly expropriated, they could file a claim on the basis of ICS................................................................................................................................................................................... My only question to the cabinet is, is this correct? Is expropriation the only land under the treaty, or are there more grounds? It was also said that the ICS part should be compared to what we had first: ISDS. But that's not true either, because we don't have a treaty with Canada right now. It would therefore be fairer to compare the current practice, in which multinationals of this kind have to go to court, and not with matters contained in other treaties that Canada has nothing to do with. Thirdly, it has been announced that this would lead to lower prices. CETA has been in force for two years and no one has been able to see these lower prices in the supermarkets. Prices are only rising and the cabinet has only made this worse by increasing VAT rates. It is much more likely that a possible reduction in production costs will only lead to higher margins in the supermarkets. It has also been said that export figures are growing enormously, especially in the oil sector, and a number of other things have been said. It was very bad that the Foreign Minister suggested that we could not work with Canada on other issues at all, if we now reject CETA. That's bullshit. Canada is now intrinsically motivated to deal with this kind of thing with us; not because we would now exert economic pressure or something like that. The feeling now, unfortunately, is that we are dealing with a lack of democracy, that the relationship has already been established and that it is only made worse by CETA. The SP has been fighting CETA since the first day and will continue to fight, together with the opponents of this kind of anti-social trade agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u284	Thank you for your input, but there is another interruption by Mr Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u285	From Haga, but that aside. I still object to Mr. Alkaya's suggestion that everything would have been in the back rooms. That may have happened to the Christian Union, I don't know, but I haven't seen a single back room. I listened to you very carefully, but you just didn't convince me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u286	That's good to hear. Indeed, I was mainly talking about the Christian Union. If I am wrong about that, I will gladly take my words back next week after the votes. But if I have followed the debate in this way, it does indeed seem that the Christian Union has turned 180 degrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u287	I would just like to say that this does not lead to a majority. You're gonna have to fight it here anyway. You have done so with extremeness, but you seem to have failed to convince a majority in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u288	In essence, there is a core of truth in that. Indeed, I could have convinced Mr Van Haga, who is all in the extreme right-hand corner of the Chamber, to vote against, but he is very much in favour of this kind of free trade agreement. Unfortunately, I have to say that I did not convince Mr Van Haga in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u289	Thank you for your contribution to this second term. I call Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the Freedom Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u290	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief, because I'm tired and pretty despondent; like superiors in this Chamber, I think. I just want to say that I'm disappointing... No, let me put it this way: I find it ridiculous that the Minister has come to the fore in this important debate. This treaty has been there since 2016. The objections have also been raised since 2016. This Convention has been in place since 2016, and the objections have been there since 2016. I had expected, I had hoped, that she would be able to give all the information here to the Chamber, disprove or remove all the objections. But that did not happen and we must now wait for a letter which I do not even know what is in it. Maybe in the second term the Minister can tell us what will be in the letter we will get next week. One more quote from the minister. She said, a while ago, "It's finished, there's no way to change it anymore." This is how she talked about the CETA Convention. I hope that Mr Voordewind has heard the Minister's words correctly. Let it work on you for a while and don't let it get away with accompanying policies. For there is no accompanying policy that resolves the lack of parliamentary control over the treaty committees. However hard the Minister is going to engage in discussions with the European Commission and Canada, that lack of effective parliamentary control is a looming error in CETA, which is not a solution. He's staying. The PVV believes that this treaty should therefore be rejected. But if you think that CETA is good enough despite that looming error, you can vote in favour, of course, but by two-thirds majority. The Constitution prescribes that. And to that same Constitution, every MP in this house has sworn or promised allegiance. Remember, on installation? Finally, I would like to end with a call for the Christian Union. I strongly appeal to the reasonableness of the Christian Union not to allow itself to be swept away with an inlay. She can make a difference here now. They were against CETA in 2016 and since then nothing has changed about the treaty. That's not gonna happen. Stand up for animal welfare, the quality of our food and our fantastic agricultural sector. And if you do have to swallow that CETA melon, at least stand in front of the Constitution and the foundations of our parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u291	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Weverling on behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u292	Indeed, Chairman, the People's Party. On behalf of the People's Party for Freedom and Democracy, I have heard how important it is that we do business on the basis of facts. Fortunately, I have heard a good speech from both ministers, in which we have heard facts on the basis of all the questions asked yesterday. Actually, I thought it was a nice day today. I also had the hope that we would be doing politics with a large P and that we would then drive the Netherlands a little further in the race of the peoples. But since the speakers just before me, I have a bit of a hard head in that. Good facts have all been put out and the ghost stories have been degraded about product standards, about animal welfare, about sustainability and about the environment, so it is good that we consider this. I think it is also good to realise that many people, including me in the street, who work for SMEs, with a lot of jobs, just think it's important that we do business with Canada. 'Cause if you can't do business with that one... It's been said before. What is even more important to me is not even the EU-Canada Convention, the CETA Convention. Of course, we must ratify that, but we are threatening to cramp the Netherlands in order not to recognise what we have become big with. That's trade. It's not so much about that trade. That is a means of achieving our goal. We have built a welfare state on it, we have all kinds of facilities to thank for our prosperity and we just have to realize that. We are, I said it myself, and I heard Minister Blok repeat a boxer who fights above his weight. That's good, but we have to cherish that with each other. That is why I am making a plea, actually to deaf ears, and that is a pity, to think very reasonably this weekend and to look at the voting lists, to think again about all the good answers that have been given and also to consider the greater interest. I don't have any motions. I will assess the motions tabled on their merits and, of course, give the group an opinion on them. That's what we're gonna talk about Tuesday. Of course I am looking at the motions again specifically from the point of view of our coalition, because working together is important. That's actually the plea I want to make: working together, that's what it's all about. For the Dutch feeling, I hope that we can do that with more than 76 seats in this Chamber, because it is about the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u293	Thank you for your input. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of the Democrats 66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u294	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank Minister Kaag for her comprehensive response and the recognition of the concerns that exist about this treaty, including at D66. But I also heard in her speech that you can never get your way 100%. I share that view. Yes, we need to raise standards of animal welfare and production processes in Canada, but only together can we get the Canadians to lift these things to our own European standards. Mr. Chairman. I too have some comments to make on this treaty, but I do not lose sight of the bigger picture. The Netherlands is an open, reliable and progressive trading country. A third of our jobs depend on international trade. This treaty is the confirmation of our friendship with our liberators, Canada. Just in the year we celebrate 75 years of freedom, this is worth fighting for. I would like to thank Minister Blok for his glowing speech on this point. Mr. Chairman. After this debate, I also experience a sense of loss, because the parties on the left have turned against the importance of international cooperation, in the interests of our prosperity and progress. And that is when the reality of this treaty has long demonstrated that their fears are not based on anything. I would also like to thank Minister Kaag on this point for the disprovement of some of the untruths that have occurred in this debate. Since the entry into force of this Convention in 2017, the door has remained closed to hormone meat and chlorine chickens, and it remains so. What I do not hear from the parties on the left is the facts. I do not hear them say that Dutch trade has been benefiting from this treaty for two years, that Dutch farmers, such as that cheese farmer in the NOS-Journaal last night, are already benefiting from this treaty, which implements Canada's labour rights, such as strengthening the position of trade unions, and that this is the first free trade agreement with explicit attention to gender. I am experiencing a sense of loss because this debate shows that it is being called into question what it means to be progressive. For this was also the debate of the opportunistic turn of the Labour Party. Frankly, I am disappointed that the Labour Party, which is nevertheless known as a responsible party with an international outlook, has joined the flanks of PVV, Forum and SP in this debate, parties that turn their backs on the European Union's leading role and are naive about how to work together internationally. I will therefore call on the PvdA's First Chamber: listen again to the praises of Lilianne Ploumen and Frans Timmermans on this important treaty with our ally Canada. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll close with a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Free Trade Agreement with Canada includes ambitious chapters on sustainability, labour and the environment;]] [[whereas the new European Commission has recently launched an ambitious climate agenda and both parties are signatories of Paris;]] [[Whereas the Free Trade Agreement with Canada provides a solid basis for joint action to combat climate change and improve animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to use the Free Trade Agreement with Canada to take both European and bilateral initiatives to increase Canada and the EU together in meeting climate objectives and improving animal welfare,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Bouali. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u295	I am glad that I have heard Mr Jetten talk about animal rights. I never hear group chairmen do that. That really goes far beyond animal welfare. I would like to believe that Mr Jetten is serious. His party also supports calls to improve animal welfare in Europe and the Netherlands. But I'd like to ask him about what's going to happen to him right now. His desire is to raise Canadian standards to European standards, but European standards are not good enough for D66. So D66 has to fight to raise those standards. What do you think the VVD's gonna say? "Listen, if we tighten the rules even further, our farmers will have an even greater competitive disadvantage compared to Canada." That's what happens when you vote for this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u296	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u297	So the question is, what does D66 ultimately make more weight? When is the moment when climate, nature and animal rights are going to weigh more heavily on D66 than free trade?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u298	This is again the difference between the Party for Animals and D66, which was also very clear a few times last night. Yes, I am still dissatisfied with the level of animal welfare throughout the European Union. But should I wait until we get that to the ideal level before I can talk to the rest of the world about how we can improve animal welfare in those countries? So that can be done at the same time. We must continue to fight together to improve animal welfare in the Netherlands and in Europe and use this treaty to lift the Canadians to our level as well. We can already see that it is moving in the right direction in the field of animal transport in Canada. We are really not going to allow more than 36 certified beef companies to export here. As far as I'm concerned, the pressure on Canada is still maximum. If there are Canadian farmers who want to take advantage of this huge market in Europe, they will have to comply with our standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u299	That wasn't my question. My question is about the ambitions that D66 claims to have. She's trying to spawn climate pickers, nature pickers and animal rights pickers. But you don't make that happen, because you give the VVD an argument to say: all those plans that D66 wants, even more climate, nature and animal rules for our farmers, you have to see what kind of competition they already have to endure. So D66 says on the one hand she's in favour of shrinking livestock and climate policy while she's just making it impossible for herself on the other hand to realize that agenda. And I find that nauseous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u300	I am here as the group chairman of D66 and, fortunately, not as the group chairman of the VVD. I think you have seen over the last few years that we are fighting for animal welfare in this Chamber and in the European Parliament on behalf of the voters of D66. And maybe one day we'll get to the point where we can also talk about animal rights in this Chamber. We must continue to fight for this together and, as far as I am concerned, we are working together to convince other parties to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u301	At the end of the debate, I understand Mr Jetten's frustration that he has lost the entire left side of the Chamber and that he is a bit alone in such an uncomfortable position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u302	In the past, left-wing parties were still the champions of international law and left-wing cooperation, and apparently we are now leaving that to the flanks and foreign regimes that are putting pressure on Europe. I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u303	If we're all gonna pop things up from the past, for example what Hans van Mierlo has been resisting to set up a party like D66 and what it's become, we're gonna be here all day, but I'm tired too, so we're not gonna do that. I have the following question to ask Mr Jetten. He has already used some big words here when it comes to changing the position of the Labour Party, but another party has also changed its position, namely the Christian Union. Why can't I hear Mr Jetten about that? How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u304	Because the PvdA was the party responsible for negotiating this treaty. I have always heard praises from Lilianne Ploumen about CETA and about the huge steps that have been taken thanks to her commitment on behalf of the Netherlands. This is an opportunistic turn, one day after a video of GroenLinks. I am disappointed because I know the PvdA as a party that dares to take responsibility, also in the international context. As D66 we negotiated a government agreement with VVD, CDA and ChristenUnion. It states that, in principle, we have a positive assessment of international trade agreements. Well, that's what we're doing in this debate, and it's up to the Christian Union to assess if the Minister's commitments are sufficient to agree to this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u305	The whole word CETA does not appear in the coalition agreement. In general terms, things are said here about free trade agreements, but if the Christian Union had stood firm, we would not have stood here if we were standing now but could have wiped CETA off the table and negotiated a better agreement. So my question to Mr Jetten is again: what does he think of it and what kind of words does he stick to the turn of the Christian Union when he uses such big words about the PvdA? Because the turn of the Christian Union is the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u306	This was actually the crux at the end of last night's first term of office: the idea that we in the Netherlands could agree this treaty and that you would have negotiated a better treaty within a year. Negotiations for this Convention began in 2009. Now, for the first time, there is a free trade agreement with extensive attention to the environment, climate and gender. Of course, I would also like to raise the bar even further in the next free trade agreement, but this is really a huge step in comparison with previous treaties. Please, let us not be naive about how it works in the international context. If we say yes as the Netherlands and if Europe now, we will have a better free trade agreement than we have ever had with our ally Canada. That is the new starting point for the next trade agreements that we hope to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u307	I do not have so much a question as a comment in the direction of Mr Jetten. The arguments are indeed at the time when you are going to make a caricature of your opponent's views on this subject. I really object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u308	You do that all day long.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u309	No, no, Mrs Diks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u310	I just want to finish my point. I have repeatedly indicated that GroenLinks is certain for trading, provided that it is green, animal-friendly and climate-friendly. You keep saying that GroenLinks doesn't understand trade and doesn't think it's important. I really object to that. I would like to say once again that it is not at all the case that GroenLinks is against trade. We're in favour of another trade. I am particularly disappointed by D66's fact that all the demands you have made are thrown overboard by enthusiastically agreeing with CETA. I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u311	I am very pleased that Mrs Diks once again confirms that GroenLinks is in favour of international trade. My assessment of GroenLinks' input into this debate is that GroenLinks is naive about how to achieve those higher goals in the international context. And I'm sticking with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u312	Finalizing, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u313	We are going to look again at this naivety in a few years' time when we see what the negative consequences of CETA have been for us in the Netherlands, when we see what negative consequences have been for Dutch agriculture. Then we'll have a cup of coffee with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u314	I am happy to join you in that debate, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u315	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the Christian Democratic Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I believe that this debate, yesterday and today, is all about the perspective. You have to put everything in perspective. We are talking about a trade agreement from Europe with 27 countries and 475 million inhabitants with Canada on its own with about 35 million inhabitants. When you hear how a number of parties talk about Canada, I find it embarrassing and inferior. I am ashamed of what was said yesterday. When I look at the calimero effect projected on this trade agreement, I think: where is the pride of our entrepreneurs, of our farmers and of what they can achieve? This Trade Agreement CETA has been under negotiation for about ten years. I am glad that we have Europe in this turbulent world between China, America and emerging states such as India and Brazil, that we can work together as Europe. If you're working with 27 countries, that means giving and taking. Is the CETA agreement perfect? No. Do people have concerns? Yes. But there have also been a lot of monkey sandwiches, even on professional national television, where it has been said that the Netherlands is getting all kinds of claims. We asked the Party for Animals yesterday. We have 90 trade agreements with investment agreements. How many times has the Netherlands received a claim in the last 40, 50 years? Zero. We got 700 e-mails about kilos of bullets entering the Netherlands from Canada. How many chicken meats came in? Zero, because chicken meat is not in the chord. How much pork has come in? Almost zero. How much pork is allowed in? 0.4% may enter Europe at the most. For example, there have been many monkey sandwiches to undermine this treaty. I'm glad we're getting this done as a Europe. I would like to thank the cabinet for this, and I thank the ministers, also Minister Blok, who has just left, for saying that this goes beyond just a little trade. In fact, I would also like to thank former Minister Ploumen for that, but at the same time I am ashamed that, if all this continues, we should go to Europe to tell the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Timmermans, that we have not come out as the Netherlands. What are we doing in the Netherlands? I know there are concerns, and I think we have all mentioned those concerns. Mr. Chairman. I would like to highlight two points with two motions for resolutions on this CETA Trade Agreement, which the CDA agrees with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CETA Convention is a modern, balanced trade agreement which, on balance, has a positive impact on the Netherlands;]] [[Whereas trade may have adverse effects on a number of sectors where it is exposed to increasing international competition;]] [[Calls on the Government to urge the European Commission to properly monitor the impact of the CETA Convention on the European agricultural sector in general and the Dutch agricultural sector in a specific sense;]] [[Calls on the Government also to urge the European Commission to apply the necessary safeguard measures where the CETA Convention distorts the European agricultural market;]] [[calls on the Government to take accompanying measures in the event of disproportionate effects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Investment Court System (ICS) contains improvements compared to the outdated Investor to State Dispute Settlement (ISDS);]] [[noting that the CETA Convention is the first trade agreement in force under the ICS system;]] [[noting that the interpretative declaration provides for further development of dispute resolution;]] [[Whereas the Joint Committee is competent to address irregularities in the dispute resolution mechanism and abuses in the implementation of the CETA Convention with the agreement of all Contracting Parties;]] [[Calls on the Government to review the functioning of the ICS in the CETA Convention no later than five years after the entry into force of the CETA Convention;]] [[invites the Government to share the findings of this evaluation with the Court and to submit any recommendations to the European Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-18]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch, Mr Voordewind and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u317	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the serious response to our concerns and our questions. The Christian Union has asked for five guarantees from this minister when it comes to imports of agricultural products from Canada. The Minister has given a serious answer. In order to formulate those guarantees precisely again, it really comes down to the details. I have the next motion for a resolution for the Cabinet and for the Chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in Canada the same environmental, animal welfare and food safety standards do not apply to the production of agricultural products as in the European Union;]] [[Whereas it is essential that the monitoring of imports of Canadian agricultural products to the European Union is complete;]] [[Whereas it is necessary at all times to avoid creating a level playing field for European/Dutch farmers;]] [[Calls on the Government to make every effort to agree at European level with Canada on the certification of agricultural products from Canadian companies exported to the European Union, including in the certificates guarantees for non-produced agricultural products using the pesticides prohibited in the EU;]] [[calls on the Government also to urge the Commission to step up audits of the hormone-free meat certification system, including through the track-and-trace system;]] [[Invites the Government to urge the European Commission to ensure that the Canadian authorities strictly enforce Canadian rules on animal meal;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to urge the European Commission to strictly enforce European legislation in the field of GMOs;]] [[Finally, ask the Government to provide the Customs with additional capacity to carry out checks properly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u318	Mr. Chairman. I have also heard the Minister say that some of the requests contained in it may need to be linked back to the European Commission, so I await the Minister's answers on that point and the feedback. Then there are the committees and the possible negotiations on standards. I'll take care of that, too. I therefore ask the Minister whether she can confirm that the precautionary principle, which is so important for Europe, is also strictly maintained in these committees. I would also like to hear a reaction to that. I have heard from the Minister that she would also like animal welfare to lead to labelling and that she will discuss this with the European Commission. I see that as a commitment. I come to the recycling fund. I have heard the Minister respond positively to this. However, in order to arrive at a precise wording in this area, I have drawn up the next motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the trade agreement with Canada (CETA) will increase trade in agricultural products between Canada and the European Union;]] [[Considers that the ambition of the Cabinet to move towards a more circular and nature-inclusive agriculture should be facilitated and that this transition should be guaranteed on a permanent basis;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a detailed plan of the conversion fund by 1 May 2020, as announced in the nitrogen letter of 8 February 2020, to support farmers who want to make the transition to circular agriculture, including farmers who want to work organically, including nature, or more extensively, in the financial challenges involved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u319	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Minister said a few words about corporate social responsibility in response to our questions on that point. In particular, it is our desire to come up with legislation on soil. That is not only a wish of the Christian Union; I know that it also lives wider in the Chamber. I have heard the Minister say that she takes this option seriously if the evaluation is to get an insufficient one. So I look forward to that debate as well. Mr President, we await the cabinet's reactions to our motions, and we await the additional information from Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u320	Thank you for your input. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u321	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministers for the answers they have given. I thought it was a very clear story, although I'm afraid it won't make any difference to the opponents. As far as I am concerned, it is a simple balance of interests which must be in favour of 'the Netherlands, a trading country'. The Netherlands first, let's just say. CETA has been in force since 2017 and has proven to be good for our economy. Exports have grown enormously. And CETA does not pose any risk to the product standards, which has been argued in the meantime. CETA also ensures that we talk to a country that has similar standards and values on all kinds of things that we want to see improved, such as animal welfare, Mrs Ouwehand. The fear of the Investment Court System in CETA is completely unfounded. I would add a personal note: I think regulatory chill is right, because that prevents governments from doing all kinds of weird things, such as expropriating without paying compensation for the entrepreneur who invested there. But more importantly, CETA is a binding step in a major trade war against emerging powers such as China. We all know that China is a country where production standards, climate and animal welfare are not respected at all. The damage that China is doing with its state capitalism - the word was just used by the minister - is enormous and we are not doing anything about it. In this light, the remark made by fellow minister Amhaouch may be important: we need to see CETA in perspective. There are, of course, points of criticism about CETA, but they are not in keeping with the benefits for our economy, which are very large. Mr. Chairman. A compliment also fits Mr Voordewind of the ChristianUnion. I understand the struggle in terms of the disadvantages, but it is also good that the Christian Union should ultimately allow the importance of Dutch business to prevail, and that CETA should rightly place it in the perspective of Mr Amhaouch. Mr. Chairman. I repeat my conclusion from the first term. Just with a country like Canada, a trade agreement would be a blessing. It would be a blessing for Dutch business. I do not have any motions, nor will I support the PVV and SGP amendments. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u322	Thank you for your input. I call Mr Bishop on behalf of the Reformed Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u323	Mr President, that is quite correct. Thank you very much. As far as Parliament is concerned, thank you very much to the directors for answering the questions. I must say that, after all the preparation that preceded it, we in the group began this debate with a certain ambivalence. Not because we wouldn't think the debate was important or anything like that. On the contrary. That was because we were somewhat clinging to two thoughts. The Bible teaches us that is not a good position. We have therefore formulated some crucial questions for us in the debate. Unfortunately, I have to say that we do not have a satisfactory response. I must also add that sometimes the argument was so much about the summit that I would feel silly in advance if I followed that argument. That was too much, I'll tell you. A few of those questions. On the one hand, there are additional requirements for our own agriculture and, on the other hand, there is more room for imports of products that do not comply with them. Yes, we have such good agricultural products, we say. You can't be too crazy with that. I was concerned with the moral nature of this ambiguity; almost duplicity. Another question concerned the cumulation of agricultural requirements in relation to the current Mercosur negotiations. Well, we'll just have to wait and see. Let me summarize, because Mercosur, we can go on with that. Yeah, that's what I'm questioning. The final point is compensation. Last year, as a SGP, we received a motion on which, in fact, Mr Voordewind's motion is based. The Minister has a bit of a hint that there must be a lot going on before you can really talk about compensation. Let me summarize it too briefly, perhaps the Minister will say. I acknowledge that, but these are the words that I would like to put to you now. What I find very regrettable in the debate is that too little distinction has been made between the CETA Convention and the EU-Canada Strategic Partner Agreement. I'm gonna do that, very consciously. I am going to advise my group to vote against the CETA Convention and for the strategic partner agreement. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u324	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs van den Hul, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u325	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The real question is, who gets a vote? The multinationals that see their profit margins grow every year or civil society organisations that see their space shrink annually? The unrest over trade agreements is increasing. It is not for nothing that more than 70 NGOs from Asia, Latin America, Africa, Australia and Europe have written to us this week, warning us of the global impact of trade agreements and calling for better protection of human rights and the environment. To be honest, it shows little respect for the concerns of civil society organisations, trade unions and minorities as fake news or ghost images. Yesterday I explained that the PvdA is convinced that CETA offers an opportunity to better anchor the position of these civil society organisations. Better position against the increasing power of multinationals and authoritarian regimes. And yes, that goes beyond Canada, because CETA must become the blueprint for fair trade worldwide. A blueprint for future partnerships with countries where trade union freedom or environmental protection are far from self-evident. Concerns about the safeguarding of human rights and the environment against the interests of multinationals live not only in the Netherlands, but also in countries such as Italy, Germany and France. In those countries, CETA is still far from running. If we take these concerns seriously now, I am afraid that we will soon be able to whistle to any support for long-term international cooperation. I hear you thinking: we have been talking about CETA for more than ten years. Well, then a few more months doesn't matter either, I'd say. Better quality than speed, I repeat. And rather with as much support as possible than on the basis of false contradictions: for or against trade, for or against Canada and for or against international cooperation. All things considered, it seems to my group to be the only sensible choice now to look for that coalition of the willing, precisely because it is fragile, and not only in the Netherlands. So, no, let's not go behind the dikes, but just go up the barricades together, so that now and in the future there will be more support for international cooperation and we will build a foundation for genuine fair trade with a strong position for trade unions and NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u326	Thank you for your input, too. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u327	It already says "rounding" in the screen. It's going really fast. Co-workers, sovereignty: that is what this debate is about. It is not about trade, and it is not really about all the details that Mr Voordewind comes up with: if we get that commitment, we can be in favour of it. That is not really what this debate is about. Then you're missing the point. It's not about trade, economics or detail points on the basis of which you can or should not be in favour for just a moment. It's about sovereignty. It is about who in the Netherlands has the final say on the products, the goods and the agreements that apply to the Dutch on Dutch territory. It is about the oldest question of political philosophy: quis customer ipsos custodes? Who's guarding the guards? We see two world-views of the post-national elites, which have previously been referred to as 'two human beings': the human image, the world view, the post-national elites, who ultimately want to place everything in multilateral, international consultative bodies, arbitration courts and the European Commission, who will put a stamp on them in technocratic and large-scale lobbies. This is also said on several occasions: this as a way to become a kind of new global conglomerate, in which agreements will be made and in which this Parliament has become more and more a kind of co-pratter and co-decisionr rather than the body that can or may say yes or no in the last instance. This is very clearly illustrated by the fact that it entered into force on a provisional basis two years ago. This treaty entered into force on a provisional basis two years ago, and now we have a chance to discuss it. That's the mindset. That's what's happening here. The irony of this time is that the party which has democracy in its name is killing democracy here. The referendum was murdered. The referendum has been abolished. The population can't say anything about it anymore. It's already ricocheted here in the back rooms and it's just pushed through. I predict that the tough words of the Labour Party will be worth little in the First Chamber, but I would like to be convinced otherwise. That's what it's about: sovereignty. It is not about the economy, trade or the detail points about products, although it is important to point out product standards. Ultimately, it is about this Parliament giving away something that it does not have, namely sovereignty. It belongs to the Dutch people. We have them in custody, and you are doing something you're not supposed to do at all, namely give away something you have in custody, that you don't own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u328	With this summary, it seems that Mr Baudet has taken part in a very different debate than the one we have had here. I believe that we have indeed dealt with the CETA Convention here. We do not have a very philosophical or analytical debate on sovereignty here. I think that might still be the case when it comes to the Constitution. But it's very simple: Mr. Baudet doesn't want to have that discussion. There is simply a one-to-one relationship between Mr Baudet's views. It is very simple: Mr Baudet is against the European Union, so he is against anything that might have anything to do with it. You can mask it, you can say "we're going to abstract it very much," but this is just the simple message you bring here. You are against the European Union and against everything that has to do with it, so you are against CETA as well. That is perhaps to be summarized in two minutes rather than in the hour you needed yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u329	Well, no. Yesterday I explained in detail, at article level, why this treaty is not in the Dutch interest in this particular case. It is bad for our farmers, it is bad for our agricultural sector. 0.16% of our SMEs only export to Canada. According to the European Commission's own estimates, this Treaty will generate up to 2.1 billion additional growth per year for all EU countries together. So that's 0.01% of the total economy. So it's completely negligible. So we are giving up all control over our products, we are virtually not winning a penny and we are also handing over to a foreign arbitration court that, as we have seen in recent years, can stretch all those rules of the treaty, all those promises, all those grab sprays that you are so happy with, that can be done through precedent, through rulings, through arbitration, until we have completely lost control of the products that can come into our market from Canada and also about the legislation that we can make here and which, in theory, could be detrimental to Canadian companies. They can then file billions of claims and probably be allocated. I talked about all that yesterday. Today I wanted to summarize the core...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u330	Yes, but you just did. Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u331	...the point that is constantly not understood here. It is about something that we are increasingly losing, namely our right to exist, as a parliament and as a democracy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u332	Mr Baudet blames me in the first statements that I went into detail about the Treaty. He did, as he says now, yesterday. He could've saved us a little bit of that. It's fine if he lectures or if he talks to students about sovereignty in his own circle. We also want to go a long way with that; so is our history. Only that's not the point here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u333	But I blame...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u334	No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u335	He could have given a very brief summary yesterday, apart from his one-hour speech: we are against the European Union, so we will always be against this treaty. Then we'd have finished in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u336	I do not blame Mr Voordewind for going into detail about this treaty. I blame him for thinking that one or two details could be used to lift the objections to this treaty. The problem with the Treaty is not only the provisions themselves, but also that the Treaty is a living instrument, which once we have signed it will go its own way and will be further developed. It will be further developed, not only by those committees, which can make binding additions, but also by that arbitration court. So you don't know what you're agreeing to. I would like to add that point to all the other points. Once again, the accusation is not that you are going to go into detail on the treaty, which is fine, but that you will be satisfied with a few beaded necklaces that will prove to be worthless at the moment that we have signed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u337	Finalizing, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u338	Mr Baudet had...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u339	You don't understand how this works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u340	No, Mr Baudet, Mr Voordewind has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u341	Mr Baudet had not satisfied himself with anything. He may end all these things and express his concerns, but the starting point and the end point are known to Mr Baudet: he is against the European Union. So any debate we are going to have here makes no sense at all, because we already know the final result. Then he may still be able to put his finger on the sore spot, but it does not make any difference to Mr Baudet's views. That's my point. There is no point in going into this very detail with you, because you already have your point of view. If we want to discuss this with each other openly and honestly, I have tried to do so in this debate yesterday and today, we must also be open to looking at how we can change the policy as it stands. That is why we are here in the Chamber, to see what we can do for the country and what we can do for people. You're on the sidelines. You're philosophizing for students. You may do that, but you do not dent in a package of butter here to organise changes for the benefit of the policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u342	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u343	I do not understand exactly what Mr Voordewind wants to make. I note that I have not convinced him that the arguments I have put forward have had no effect on his voting behaviour. That's true. I don't know if it's true that it always will be. I do not know what the electorate thinks of this either, what people in the Netherlands think of this. I would be very curious to know what would happen if we presented such a CETA Treaty to the people in a referendum. I don't know how other parties feel about that. But I do consider it to be my role and my role as a parliamentarians, and I think that we should all do so in order to express our own views here. It is not at all the case that the fact that I am against the European Union does not provide any relevant arguments in the framework of the CETA Convention, because it is precisely the arguments against the EU, namely the one size fits no-one, that is something you can see in that CETA Treaty. The reason why the euro coin is not working is the same as why this CETA Convention is not working. All these countries are very different. Italy is very different from the Netherlands. That's good. That is the strength of Europe. That's why it doesn't work to make it a single sausage. That's why it doesn't work to have one immigration policy. That's why it doesn't work to have one foreign policy. That's why it doesn't work to have one coin. And that's why it doesn't work to conclude a single trade agreement with Canada. So it is very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u344	You have really answered Mr Voordewind's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u345	Thank you for that compliment. Then I'm going to file two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands should not be bound by treaties until they have been approved by Parliament;]] [[noting that the Government regularly agrees that conventions are to be applied provisionally, pending the approval of the Parliament;]] [[whereas it puts pressure on Parliament to approve such a treaty, which disrupts the democratic process;]] [[calls on the government never to agree to the provisional application of a treaty that has not yet been approved by parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that CETA creates a form of investor-state arbitrage and for that purpose establishes a court of law in which foreign judges will sit;]] [[noting that this court will have to consider claims by foreign investors against national governments when investors feel disadvantaged by national policies;]] [[Whereas claims or fears of claims may make it impossible for the Dutch State to put in place effective policies in areas such as food safety and environmental protection;]] [[Whereas this is seriously affecting our national sovereignty;]] [[Considering that, due to the above-mentioned objections to investor-state arbitrage, the Australian authorities decided in 2011 never to conclude any trade agreements that would allow this type of state arbitrage;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose any future trade agreements that allow investor-state arbitrage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-22]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35154-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u347	You've run out of time. Thank you for your input. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen will be the last to speak in this second term of office. She does so on behalf of the Party for the Animals. No, not anymore. Sorry, that's an automatism. I apologize. You do that on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u348	I'm completely independent, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. There have been incredibly many good questions asked about CETA. I note that both directors have done their utmost not to give an answer and even to create false contradictions. Everything is really brought in: alliances, missions and "shoulder on the shoulder." Minister Blok is making a big deal out of it by saying, "If we leave our ally in the cold with CETA now, it will sound deafening. If we then again seek support to fight shoulder to shoulder for human rights, women's rights, peace and international security, Canada will say: now you seek support, but you have abandoned us with CETA." But what does it say when such a strong ally demands of us to agree to CETA, which will have huge consequences for our internal market, privacy and product standards, and Canada, through its working groups, tries to undermine EU legislation on animal welfare, agricultural poison and the precautionary principle, which is a pillar of European legislation? What does that say about such a good ally? Mr. Chairman. Minister Kaag has undertaken to take note of the documents that have been wobbled by foodwatch and to respond in its second term to the fact that these documents show that European officials assure Canada that EU legislation will change to their advantage and that Canada will have the opportunity to participate in European Union legislative procedures. The precautionary principle, which is the basis of the main European legislation, also does not recognise Canada, while the precautionary principle is extremely important to allow Member States to provide additional regulation if there are risks to public health and biodiversity. Furthermore, it is clear from the wobbled documents that Canada is also able to change the minimum residue levels for pesticides and herbicides. I hold the Minister to the fact that in her second term, she really will come back to that. Because it's impossible if Canada has so much influence, even if it's our ally. Mr. Chairman. CETA is literally pushed through at all costs. There were many fine words and many promises to talk to Canada about higher standards in the areas of privacy, consumer protection, animal welfare, environment, climate and so on, but nothing in CETA guarantees that these talks will actually produce anything. For conversations about standards, you don't need trade agreements. A good ally also respects our standards, values, legislation and democracy. Mr. Chairman. I have tabled three motions from GroenLinks. Finally, I would like to say that I insist that we should vote CETA away. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u349	Thank you. Mr Öztürk is also in the Chamber. He will now be the last to speak in the second term, on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u350	Thank you, Mr President. As a small fraction of three MPs, you have multiple responsibilities. I have had to do a number of things today, such as receiving delegations and keeping a number of appointments. The debate was late last night. We started again this morning. So I didn't get to see everything. But I saw that, in particular, the opposition, including the PVV and Mr Baudet, put a lot of sharp questions to the rulers. My colleagues have been able to follow the debate. This is what we need to say. Let us not now vote on CETA, also in order to convince the Christian Union and a number of other parties. Let us look at everything once again, including the guarantees demanded by the Christian Union, in order to eventually form a majority for this coalition. Let's take our time, take our rest. We also saw that we really don't get out completely. The room is hugely divided. It's almost 75-75. I would like to ask my colleagues once again not to rush it. Let's take the time so we can maybe convince each other, and not vote until then. That's my final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-13-tweedekamer-2.u351	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. We're about to suspend. Then, after we have had the order of business, the Minister will do the second time, in which she will give an opinion on the 15 motions for resolutions tabled and answer the questions that remain.
