ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u1	At present the issue is the consideration of the bill 35130, Proposal of the Rijkswet of members Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijngaarden and Van Ojik laying down rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap (Rijkswet restricting effect Brexit). I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that Mr Van der Burg will be making his maiden speech today. After this maiden speech, I will address Mr Van der Burg and briefly suspend the sitting for congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wish Mr Van der Burg every success in his maiden speech in a moment. Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate the authors of the bill Rijkswet containment consequences Brexit on their own initiative proposal. Preparing, submitting and defending an own-initiative proposal means a great deal of work for Members of Parliament and their staff. Our heartfelt compliments. From my own experience, I know that defending a bill in the Senate is a very exciting moment; a final step in a long process. Of course, the final step is to counter-sign the law by the government. I assume the government will sign the law if the bill can count on a majority of the Senate. Can the Secretary of State confirm this? Veder is particularly commendable for trying to solve the concrete problems of a large number of Dutch people living, studying and working in the United Kingdom. As a result of the Brexit, their legal status may deteriorate. They are facing an uncertain time in a position of law. The temptation is great today to speak in broad terms about the Brexit and its many consequences. I'll try to resist that temptation. This bill creates an exception to some provisions of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. This makes it possible for Dutch residents living in the UK to retain Dutch nationality when applying for British nationality. If they have already acquired British nationality, they will simply regain Dutch nationality. A generous exception, yes. The impact and developments of the Brexit since the referendum on 23 June 2016, exactly four years ago, went together with many uncertainties that continue to this day. It is also particularly challenging to deal with a bill like this in the current political context. The relatively short history of this bill already shows how the assumptions and assumptions are overtaken by political reality. When the initiators submitted their bill in January 2019, they feared that the UK would leave the EU without a exit agreement, a no-deal separation. In this situation, there would be no agreement on the rights of EU citizens living in the UK and the British residing in EU Member States. Fortunately, this scenario has not become a reality. The UK left the EU on 31 January 2020 after a exit agreement between both parties had been ratified. Until the end of this year, there is a transitional period in which all EU rules and laws remain in force for the UK. Exactly how it will go after that is still unclear. Can the proposers reflect on the agreements made in the exit agreement on the civil rights of EU citizens in the UK and the British in the EU? Our reading is that, depending on the ongoing negotiations, which are far from successful, there will be more clarity about the future legal rules. At the moment, therefore, uncertainty continues. It is still a real scenario for the UK and the EU to break up permanently without an agreement on future relations. Only in that situation does this bill apply. In fact, Dutch people who want to stay in the UK without a deal after a Brexit are faced with a difficult choice. Either they can continue to live in the UK with their Dutch passport under British foreign law, which makes their legal status in the UK worse but retains the Dutch citizenship, or they can apply for British citizenship, allowing them to fully enjoy the rights of citizens in the UK. According to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, on the other hand, they lose their Dutch nationality and thus all rights as an EU citizen. In individual cases, this could be a diabolical dilemma. Mr. Chairman. This bill will help Dutch people in this exceptional situation, a solution that can count on the support of the GroenLinks Group. It's about a safety net. Should the EU and the UK agree on future relations, this law will not enter into force. GroenLinks is, as is well known, in favour of wider possibilities for multiple nationality. Practical or emotional reasons can ensure that people are forced or willing to want multiple nationality or nationality. I'm sorry, but I'm not sure I'm gonna be able to... I am an example of this myself. The preservation of my original nationality, the Iranian, was not a choice when I was naturalized as a Dutchman in 1996. Iranian law does not allow for the waiver of Iranian nationality. This was recognized by Dutch law and I didn't have to make a choice either. Thank goodness, I'd say. Even though in the past three decades I personally have had little joy in my dual nationality............................................................................................................................................................................................... Unfortunately, the debate on multiple nationality in Dutch politics has been polarized in recent years. A dual nationality is treated as a double loyalty. Some signatories to this initiative proposal, such as the VVD, have participated generously in this polarisation. How should we assess this initiative on the part of the VVD? Has the VVD become aware that a passport does not define the identity and loyalty of a human being? Can we expect from now on a less cramped attitude of the VVD in relation to multiple nationality? Or is there opportunism on the part of the VVD? I should like to hear a reply from Mr Van Wijngaarden. Mr. Chairman. Although we understand this bill to provide a practical solution to the problems of a group of Dutch people in the United Kingdom, we also consider it important to pay attention to the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State objected to the disproportionate exception of the permanent granting of dual nationality for the Dutch resident problem after the Brexit and gave negative advice on this bill. I would like a response from the authors to this opinion. In the light of this opinion, the question of why the royal road is not chosen will also become more pregnant. This bill would not have had to be like the government if this State Secretary had realised the intention of the government agreement on the introduction of dual nationality for the first generation of immigrants and immigrants. With less than nine months to go until the next elections of the House of Representatives, this Secretary of State is still empty-handed in 2020 when it comes to modernising nationality law. This is incomprehensible. Can the Secretary of State state state why the bill is not yet in place and when it intends to submit it? Mr. Chairman. We await with interest the answers of the proposers and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I call Mrs Vos on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr. Chairman. First of all, my sincere congratulations to the authors of this bill. It's a hell of a job. It is important that this initiative was taken from the Chamber, because, as my predecessor said, unfortunately it did not come from the government. I am pleased that members of the coalition have also taken part in this initiative. In my opinion, it reflects well the proportions that we can also have in this house. Mr. Chairman. Identity and nationality are not the same for many people. I feel very Dutch, but on request I also feel Chinese-Indian, even though I have never lived in the former Dutch-Indies, where my mother was born, or in China, where my great-grandfather came from. My identity doesn't coincide with my nationality. Anglophiles in the Netherlands will not want to have British nationality immediately, yet as an anglophile they can know more about the British or behave more British than a British resident. Nationality doesn't say who you are in all cases. Nationality is important if you know that on a certain date you are a stranger in the country where you have your whole and keep your whole. Nationality is important if you have believed at your wedding ceremony that you will love your British loved one for better or for worse, or, in English: to have and to hold for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health. That having and holding becomes difficult if your civil rights become less because you do not have the right nationality. You could feel fine Dutch and British and act like this when the United Kingdom was still a member of the European Union. But the Brexit makes a hard separation between identity and nationality. Previously British-like Dutch are from then on strangers and lose civil rights. To avoid that, this bill has been tabled. It regulates that Dutch people in the United Kingdom are given the opportunity to take on a second nationality, the British, so that they can continue to live, work, vote and love as they have always done. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA Group agrees with the purpose of this law: to amend the Dutch Act so that the law fits people's reality again. We are sometimes surprised by the persistence with which other parties try to describe the principle of one nationality as a reality of a large group of people. After all, nationality does not say anything about civicism, your contribution to society or your tax liability. That's what your behavior says. That's what the Prime Minister always says. You can be 100% Dutch or British and still avoid tax. I don't think that's a testament to patriotism. You can help your lonely neighbor illegally, and that's what I find to be a civil witness. The PvdA Group has a few questions to the initiators and to the government. Is there already an estimate of the number of Dutch nationals in the United Kingdom who will apply for British nationality? I can imagine that this has been investigated by now. And do the initiators expect, in view of the tensions over the exit process, that the British government will cooperate generously, or at least sufficiently, in the application process of British nationality? Now it is foreseen that the bill will apply for a six-month period when it enters into force and will automatically expire. If those six months are not enough, due to delays or perhaps even opposition, can the bill be extended and, if so, how? An important change in the bill was that the option that British could apply for Dutch nationality was deleted. My question to the government is whether the British in the Netherlands I know quite a lot in the neighborhood where I live if the Brexit, hard or soft, is a fact that can continue their lives in the same way. What's their future like? Or do they have to leave the country after a few months, or do they have fewer rights? And are there any rights they can lose if no exit agreement is reached? Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands, the rule is that you have one nationality. In most other countries this is exactly the other way around. There's the rule that you can have different nationalities. The PvdA Group believes that we need to think again about this Dutch exception position. As curious Dutchmen, commercial Dutchmen, open Dutchmen, we have always had an enorme travel lust and have settled everywhere and nowhere. We, like no other people, benefit from the fact that Dutch people have a connection with the Netherlands abroad. The Netherlands has traditionally been a country where people from all over the world could settle down, because they could live their faith here in freedom or no faith. Or because they could just build a better life here and were willing to work very hard and pay taxes. The Dutch have become richer in prosperity and richer in mind by the foreigners who settled here. The dust of the Brexit has yet to descend. We in the European Union have a huge job to do to strengthen our society and our economy. The rule that you can have only one nationality is actually an anomaly in a world where we need each other and we need to understand each other. This bill opens a window to the conversation we need to have about multiple nationality. Unfortunately, that hatch closes after a few months. Let us hope that in a subsequent period of government the shutters will open again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I wish Mr Van der Burg every success in his maiden speech. He's been here before, but not like this. I shall begin with a word of great appreciation for the many work the initiators have done on a difficult and complex, also legal task. I was at the beginning, on the cradle, of that initiative across the street. Yes, there I am; it may be! As a member of the House of Representatives, I together with Sjoerdsma and Asscher submitted this legislative initiative proposal in January 2019. After my transition to the First Chamber, my successor in the 50PLUS Group, Gerrit-Jan van Otterloo, took over the treatment. You will understand that my group will wholeheartedly support this proposal. All the more so, it is important to indicate what this initiative is of great importance and why my group thinks it is so. It concerns the interests of 100,000 Dutch people living in the United Kingdom and the interests of 50,000 British people living in our country. For the British group, the cabinet has provided the necessary protection. For the Dutch in the United Kingdom, the cabinet has not taken decisive steps to reach a solution. The serious consequences can be mitigated by allowing the aforementioned Dutch to take British nationality without having to give up Dutch nationality and by allowing those British nationals to retain their British nationality if they acquire Dutch nationality. The initiators wish to make this possible with the present legislative proposal, according to the explanatory memorandum. This exception to Dutch nationality law is justified, according to the applicants, given the unique nature of the situation which has arisen, namely the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. Moreover, such an exception is part of the development of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap (RWN) in which more often exceptions have been made to the principle that multiple nationality is avoided as much as possible. The UK Government launched the so-called Article 50 procedure on 29 March 2017. The United Kingdom informed the European Council of its intention to withdraw from the European Union. The negative scenario for all the countries concerned of a so-called no-deal in which the United Kingdom would withdraw from the EU without agreement is clearly one of the possibilities, as I said in the explanatory statement. Before 1 July, the UK Government should indicate whether the date of exit of 1 January 2021 is requested to be postponed. If not, the date of 1 January 2021 shall be the final date of exit with or without a deal. So we're running out of time. If there is no deal before that date, then this initiative will be important. The consequences of a no-deal will be very damaging. More specifically, this scenario will have very adverse consequences for the 100,000 Dutch residing in the United Kingdom. In recent years, this group has settled for work there, for a partner or for other reasons. Would the authors like to go into more detail and, as far as I am concerned, rather deeply about these adverse effects? So that's what it's all about. How serious are the considerations of the legal pros and cons of our nationality law? This initiative aims to provide a solution in the case of a no-deal. In the case of the Dutch, they can assume British nationality on the one hand. The Rijkswet op het Nederlandershap provides that in that case the Dutch nationality is automatically lost. If, on the other hand, they choose to retain Dutch citizenship, their residence status in the United Kingdom is uncertain, with all the consequences and uncertainties of that, legal position and otherwise. British nationality law allows the acquisition and possession of a double nationality and is not an obstacle to this bill. The state law states that anyone who voluntarily acquires another nationality loses the Dutch citizenship. There are some exceptions to this main rule. This proposal creates an additional exception by regulating, on the one hand, that Dutch citizenship is not lost as a result of obtaining British nationality and, on the other hand, that British nationality does not have to be abandoned as a result of obtaining Dutch citizenship. To this end, the conditions laid down in the proposal shall apply. The application must have been made between 23 June 2016 and six months after the entry into force of this Law. The proposal sets out the consequences of a no-deal scenario without the entry into force of this initiative law. The initiators believe that this proposal is justified because it is a unique situation. It concerns a defined limited group of Dutch residents living in the United Kingdom and the same group of British residents living in the Netherlands. The initiators join, among other things, the German Government which has given the opportunity to retain German or British nationality without having to give up the original nationality. Anne Mulder of the VVD Group said the following in the debate in the House of Representatives. I quote: "There are two parts in the law. The first is the horizon. The law expires six months after its entry into force. Then the law has done its job. Secondly, the law only applies if there is no deal or any other arrangement. It only applies exceptionally." Mulder added: "We welcome the changes in the law. It's really just about the Brexit." Mr. Chairman. Another quote from Anne Mulder from that debate. He asked for a publicity campaign when this law comes into force." ... especially for older people for whom it is sometimes difficult to be informed through social media." He referred to a visit to London by a number of MPs. "We were there at the Dutch embassy. He is busy approaching people about this, especially the elderly who are not or are less well aware of this." I would like to ask the authors, but also through the Secretary of State, the Cabinet, to at least launch a major publicity campaign so that people know what their situation is. I myself visited London with the Chambers Committee. I remember very well that I spoke at our embassy with three representatives of Dutchmen in the United Kingdom, three women who were in a completely different situation. The concerns and uncertainty sprang from them. That made a big impression on the colleagues and on me. For me then it was certain that we as the House of Representatives should take action. An initiative law was the logical solution and the step. In addition, I have thought, I remember that in this case, people go above the rules. Rules can be changed, especially when a consideration of a human situation calls for them to be changed. You know I like own-initiative laws. I have submitted one on the 2% interest rate. Here we go again. I have endorsed two other initiatives, including this one and also an initiative law with many colleagues in the Lower House on the banking sector. The fear that there will be no deal is not off the table. In eight days we will know if there will be any further postponement of the date of 1 January 2021. Otherwise, the clock will of course continue and the fatal date will get closer and closer. Mr. Chairman. I had a question. I hope it will be answered well and deeply. It is clear from my speech that my group in the First Chamber will wholeheartedly support this initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you. Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. First of all, on behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to wish Mr Van der Burg every success in his maiden speech. Mr President, 24 June 2016, exactly four years minus 1 day ago. Many of us remember exactly where we were when we heard the morning news. The British had decided to leave the EU the day before. At that time we could not yet suspect the far-reaching consequences this would have for the relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. That same morning many Dutch people in the UK also woke up with a fright. They had no influence whatsoever on this decision and yet their lives were at stake. I can imagine that this has felt like total force majeure. Because what would this decision mean for their lives in the UK? Because if Brexit were to become a reality, their Dutch EU passport would no longer guarantee equal rights. What would this mean for their rights to work, a home, health care? Would they now become second-class citizens in the country where they feel at home? Or should they now give up their Dutch identity in order to continue to live a normal life in the UK? Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the proposal of national law of members Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijgaarden and Van Ojik concerning rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap, i.e. the Rijkswet containment effect Brexit. An initiative law is a lot of work and requires perseverance and decisiveness. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to congratulate the initiators and, above all, all behind-the-scenes staff who have also done a great deal of work to manage this. I also thank the people of the3million, Stichting Nederlanders Buiten Nederland, Nederlanders in den Strange and Stichting GOOD who have shared their own insights, expertise and personal experiences with us to better understand the legal and personal consequences Brexit can have for Dutch people in the UK. Because this will help us understand the legal and personal consequences the Brexit can have for Dutch people in the UK. The D66 Group believes that this initiative law can mean a safety net for many Dutch people in the UK during this uncertain period, as the initiative law allows them to take on British nationality and retain their Dutch citizenship if there are no adequate guarantees for their civil rights in the final UK-EU agreements. Mr. Chairman. We've been four years. The D66 Group, like four years ago, still regrets the UK's departure from the EU. We are losing a valued and important member of the Union. We also see that the UK's departure from the EU will have far-reaching consequences for the UK's over 66 million inhabitants. Many of them may have hoped to be "delivered" from the duties associated with Union membership, but it is also becoming increasingly clear that they are losing all the rights that citizens of the largest single market and community of values in the world can claim. But that is not what our debate is about today. Today we are here because many countrymen may get into trouble because the UK's exit from the EU will not only affect British residents, but also the 3.5 million EU citizens, including some 100,000 Dutch. Mr. Chairman. According to the D66 Group, the purpose of this law is quite simple. The law regulates that, in the event that the UK leaves the EU without sufficient safeguards for rights of Dutch citizens in the UK, a scenario that we believe is becoming more likely to apply for British nationality in the UK without losing their Dutch nationality. At present, the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap does not allow this, which means that the group of Dutch residents who reside in the UK and are not entitled to a double passport should choose between British or Dutch nationality. In other words: an uncertain possible second-class status while retaining a Dutch passport, or say goodbye to their Dutch nationality and thus also to Union citizenship, including all the benefits and rights associated with it. In my group's view, this is particularly distressing because these Dutch people could not have foreseen a Brexit, let alone wanted it, at the time they chose to settle in the UK. They went to the UK in full conviction that they could retain their Dutch citizenship, including their EU citizenship, without having to surrender to their rights and without becoming a playball in the Brexit negotiations. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks, I have had a number of talks with Dutch people in the UK. Their assessment is that the British Government will do nothing to guarantee the civil rights of EU citizens, including Dutch citizens, in such a way as to ensure their need for legal certainty, equality and social and psychological security. In other words, many of them, especially those who are not married to a person of British nationality, fear that in future they will have more and more problems in finding a home, study, job and right to social security. They are also concerned about the status and civil rights of their non-EU partners. In addition, during the covidlockdown, it proved almost impossible for many EU citizens with a residence status in the UK to receive consular assistance from the UK to return to their home in the UK. Mr. Chairman. On 31 January this year, the UK and the EU ratified the Treaty of Accession, or the Withdrawal Agreement, which seems to mean that the UK's departure from the EU is actually about to take place on 31 December of this year. I would like to hear from my group of initiators what guarantees this Treaty of Accession offers about civil rights of EU citizens and where they still have concerns about civil rights. The D66 Group also likes to hear from the Secretary of State about the guarantees for EU citizens read: The Dutch are in this Treaty of Accession. According to the Dutch I spoke to, the Withdrawal Agreement of 31 January of this year does have a provision that an independent civil rights body should be set up. But they are concerned that implementation can be changed through lower regulation without any form of parliamentary control. My group would like to hear a response from the initiators and the Secretary of State to these concerns. And what guarantees do they consider necessary to remove these concerns? My interlocutors also told me that they fear increasing discrimination in the housing market and the labour market because of the fact that EU citizens have only a digital status that has to prove their status as residents. Please note that landlords of homes and employers in the UK are responsible for checking the correct residence status of their tenants and employees and will prefer to take care of it. In addition, these Dutch people in the UK are deeply concerned about the transparency and management of their personal data in UK systems. There is also little confidence, as they told me, that the British Home Office will actually take care of their civil rights. They also deplore the loss of EU law on the free movement of persons. This is not guaranteed in the Withdrawal Agreement. My group would like to hear a response from the initiators and the Secretary of State to the concerns of the Dutch about this situation. What guarantees should the UK government give to address these concerns? For many Dutch people in the UK, the only answer to this situation is to accept British nationality. Only if these Dutch in the UK had to give up their Dutch citizenship because of this situation for the preservation of civil rights through the assumption of British nationality would that be a great dilemma for many. They won't be able to go to the Netherlands as easily as they are now. Many have older relatives that they may want to take care of in the future. Moreover, with Dutch citizenship they also lose the EU's right to free movement of persons; I have said it before. The D66 Group considers it unfair to ask these Dutch to choose. Loyalty is not one dimensional. It's like asking you to choose which parent they love most, their father or their mother. And I understand that one of my interlocutors said: "I don't want to have to choose between Dutch or British nationality. I love the Netherlands; that is my motherland forever and there I have ties with family and friends. But I also love the UK, where I have lived for over 20 years. In the 21st century, doesn't it make sense for people to have ties with different countries?" The D66 Group would like to hear a response from the initiators and the Secretary of State to this dilemma for the Dutch in the UK. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that my group supports the importance of this initiative law. My group is also pleased to see that the initiators belong to five different parties, as Mrs Vos has already mentioned. These parties all have their own vision of dual nationalities, but yet you see and we all see the need for and need for this initiative. It is not for nothing that similar laws have already been passed in Germany, Austria and Slovakia. For the record, in most parts of the EU, dual nationalities are simply possible. Of course, my group knows the critical opinion of the Council of State. The proposed exceptions to the acquisition and loss of Dutch nationality would be too far-reaching. According to the Council of State, the irreversible solution to the bill offers the group for whom it is intended more than necessary and is not proportionate to the problem it solves. It would also be primarily for the UK and not for the Dutch State to offer a solution, given the problems of residence. Therefore, my group would like to hear from the initiators how they have taken into account the objections of the Council of State in their initiative. My group understands that the Secretary of State shares the view of the Council of State to some extent. During the examination in the Lower House, she mentioned that the UK Government had settled the right of residence of EU citizens residing in the UK, should no deal be concluded. These citizens will then be eligible for a settled status if they live in the UK for more than five years, or a pre-setled status if they do not. According to the Secretary of State, this bill would therefore not be necessary. However, this setled status system is contained in secondary legislation, which means that it can be modified without input from the UK House of Commons. The rights of Union citizens in the UK after retirement are therefore not sufficiently guaranteed according to the various interest groups of the Dutch, such as the Dutch Foundation for Foreign Affairs. My group therefore asks the Secretary of State how it assesses the claim that even if rights under the setled status system are still guaranteed at the moment, this system does not provide a complete safety net because these rights are contained in secondary legislation, and can therefore be changed just like that. What alternative does it see to ensure that Dutch citizens' rights in the UK are guaranteed? My group would have liked to see a solution found for the position of British people in the Netherlands. Would the initiators please explain why it was not included in this legislative proposal? In addition, my group would like to hear from the Secretary of State about the implementation of the Salima Belhaj motion asking the government to discuss with British representatives in the Netherlands their wishes and the possibilities for managing the consequences of the Brexit in the best possible way. Finally. If this law is adopted, clear communication is of great importance, so that the Dutch in the UK know what their rights are. My group of the initiators and the Secretary of State would like to know what information and communication to the Dutch in the UK they consider necessary after the adoption of the law. My group also likes to hear what role the Dutch embassy in London can play in this communication. The D66 Group praises the initiators of this initiative law, because it shows that we as the Netherlands want to take responsibility for the rights of Dutch people abroad. For example, we can address at least a small part of the undesirable and adverse consequences of the Brexit or its uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the answers of the initiators and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch citizenship is lost for a majority by voluntarily obtaining another nationality. That is Article 15 (1) (a) of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. The Lower House wants an exception to this rule for people in the UK who have a Dutch passport and apply for British nationality. That exception should only apply if the Brexit does not guarantee their rights. I would like to reiterate the great appreciation of my group for the work of the initiators. In my opinion, it was not so long ago that a colleague of theirs, Omtzigt, said that the House of Representatives should pay more attention to its legislative task and less to urgent debates. Apparently, this group of initiators is aware that this legislative task is so important. I would also like to thank them for answering the questions put by the CDA. Those questions were critical and are still critical. I would like to add a few more questions. I would also like to wish Mr Van der Burg, who will be making his maiden speech, every success. The law assumes that you are loyal and bound to one country. Your nationality ensures that you belong together and that you help build society. Shared values are all too easily threatened by individual opportunism. In this context, the opinion of the Council of State on the present proposal is also of great importance. Acquisition and loss of citizenship or nationality are essential issues for citizens and for a country. It's about who the country considers its subjects. The new exceptions in question or the acquisition and loss of Dutch nationality are significant. They lead to the permanent dual nationality of a specific group of citizens, which is not currently the case. Then there is the Strasbourg Convention on the limitation of cases of multiple nationality. The UK is not a party to Article 1, but of course that does not mean that our country has abandoned the scope of that treaty. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State's negative advice had everything to do with proportionality and proportionality. With regard to double passports for British citizens in the Netherlands, the initiative has not been taken forward, but this does not apply to Dutch citizens in the UK. Let me say first of all that the Brexit for the Dutch in the UK is at least detrimental. There's no advantage in that. They can even be asked whether they should not apply for a British passport. Without the emergency law, as the initiators call their proposal, you would lose nationality. It is right that the initiators say that this is often emotional. You then stop having the nationality of the country where you were probably born, the country where you might sing loudly to the queen on Queen's Day. Besides, you can't live in the Netherlands that easily anymore. For example, people with a Dutch passport living in the UK have pointed out the problems they may face through the 3 Million Foundation. That is why the initiators put the question on the table as to whether that loss of rights for people is not so great that it is almost inevitable to apply for such a British nationality. You should not ask for the sacrifice of the loss of Dutch nationality. As a legislator, if you have to make a judgment on this, you need to know what loss of rights you are talking about. I remember that the moment the initiators came up with their proposal and the House of Representatives voted on it, we all assumed that the chances were that we would come to a hard Brexit. First you had Prime Minister May. Although it had concluded an agreement with the EU, it was very doubtful whether it was given to it by the House of Commons. In fact, that failed over and over again. That's when Johnson showed up. It also concluded an agreement with the EU in October. It would depend on the elections of 12 December on how it would end with that agreement. Mr Sjoerdsma brought that to the House of Representatives. Would Johnson manage to steer the agreement through the House of Commons after the elections? A no-deal scenario was real, very real. That is why the House of Representatives also said that it could imagine that it was important for Dutch people in the UK to retain the Dutch passport and apply for the British passport. Normally they would lose Dutch nationality, but that was in spite of the advice of the Council of State, I would just say, in the opinion of the House of Representatives, a sacrifice that did not have to be made. But right now, the picture is different. Johnson won the election and the agreement was finally accepted by the House of Commons on 9 January. The agreement assumes that the rights of EU citizens in the UK will change virtually nothing for the time being. On 21 January, the UK actually left the EU. The relationship between the EU and the UK will depend on the discussions that are currently taking place. There is, however, a mutual political declaration to the withdrawal agreement. It states: "The Union and the United Kingdom agree that prosperity and security are enhanced by the embrace of free and fair trade, the defence of individual rights and the rule of law, the protection of workers, consumers and the environment, and by addressing internal or external threats to rights and values." Until the end of the year, the parties will have time to make arrangements for their implementation. The cabinet also says that it assumes that these agreements will not be made in the end and that it will do everything in its power to achieve a good outcome. A more limited agreement is also taken into account, according to the Minister. The House of Representatives adopted the proposal when it was still completely uncertain about the withdrawal agreement and whether it would come from Parliament. Now that this has been done, the question is therefore whether there will be any impact agreements and, if so, what is the meaning of the content of those agreements for the proposal that we are discussing today? The bill states in Article 4 that the government will allow the law to enter into force if the United Kingdom leaves the European Union or has entered into force and no agreement has been reached in which the rights of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom are sufficiently guaranteed. Last year, my group asked the initiators: what does the word'sufficient' mean? The answer came, of course, when that withdrawal agreement was not yet passed by the British Parliament. Then the initiators said: that withdrawal agreement is sufficient. I quote from the reply: "What is regulated here in terms of civil rights for EU citizens in the UK is the lower limit for what is sufficiently guaranteed." Thus, on this basis, this proposal would be superfluous if, at the end of the year, implementation agreements were to be reached, irrespective of its content. Because that withdrawal agreement would guarantee sufficient rights, and in the current transitional period all EU rules and laws for the UK will remain in force anyway. But after that withdrawal agreement has been accepted by the English Parliament and the UK has actually left the EU, the initiators of our follow-up questions have noted in the further statement of reply the following: "Unfortunately, trust in a good regime for Dutch people in the UK has not improved since then, unlike the image of the Members who are speaking. This was also reflected in the letter sent to Prime Minister Johnson by Brexit negotiator on behalf of the EU Michel Barnier, expressing his concern that Johnson would weaken rights for EU citizens in the UK. This confirmed the concerns of the initiators that the rights of EU citizens and specifically Dutch citizens in the UK may be engaged in further negotiations between the EU and the UK." What's our room supposed to get out of this? That now that the withdrawal agreement is no longer considered as a lower limit? Mrs Karimi was still assuming that, but I noticed to Mrs Stienen that she also assumed that things could be different. For yes, if the answer is that that withdrawal agreement is no longer the lower limit, then of course the question is: yes, but what is the new lower limit? In what outcome do you say: we only need the safety net? That is, of course, very important if you, as a legislator, have to make a decision on this. This has everything to do with the opinion of the Council of State, which talks about proportionality and proportionality. How can you judge proportionality if you don't know exactly what degree of loss of rights you're talking about? And in what precise outcome can you no longer speak of an agreement within the meaning of Article 4, in which the rights of Dutch people in the UK are sufficiently guaranteed, so that the law must enter into force? Mr. Chairman. I would like the answers of the initiators to that. In the debate in the House of Representatives, the Secretary of State has now stated that she will also inform the House of Representatives that the proposal "is not a proportionate means of resolving the problems of Dutch residents in the United Kingdom." My group would like to hear the arguments of the cabinet. Perhaps the Secretary of State could also tell us how she is looking at the question of whether the lower limit has not been shifted by replying to the initiators. Or, let me put it this way, does the cabinet still know when exactly there is no agreement in which the rights of Dutch people in the UK are sufficiently guaranteed? At that point, the law should enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u12	Mr Doornhof asks a lot of questions, and rightly so. On 5 November, the group of the CDA in the Lower House voted against this bill. Can Mr Doornhof indicate which of these questions the answer will tempt his group to vote in favour of the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u13	I find it a little difficult to speak for the group in the House of Representatives, because of course we are faced with the question of what we are going to do as the First Chamber. For that the answer is very important what we are talking about. So I find it a little difficult to say now: we are going to repeat exactly the balance of interests of the group in the House of Representatives. That might be possible, but still the question is whether we are talking about a total hard Brexit or a withdrawal agreement with further agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u14	Thank you for your answer, because that means that your group is open in this debate. That's a win; that's a good thing. Then my next question concerns what you said at the very beginning of your speech. You said: for the legislator it is very important to know what loss occurs so that the measures you take are proportionate. Then my question to your group is: what loss would the CDA group actually consider important in order to be able to support this bill? Maybe I can add another sentence. At some point, when the UK is finally out of the EU, we know that there is no doubt that if you are British, you will no longer have rights to EU citizenship. That's for sure. So I think that loss is clear; there is no discussion about it. Is this, for example, a loss that the CDA Group says is a disproportionate situation and we want to take action for the Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u15	It's hard to say. We have seen what the balance of interests has been in the Lower House. Of course, I don't have to repeat myself. I have already said that it was based on the pure no-deal situation. My words are designed to clarify exactly how we, as a group, can make a decision on this matter. So we can talk for a very long time about the no-deal situation, but the question is whether it will eventually be there, because everyone can think differently about the chances of the negotiations being successful now. That's why I think the time is right now... I have one last part; that is going to be a bit of a lamentation at the moment we are talking about here. I would have liked to have dealt with this later, so that we could give much more clarity. But as long as there is no clarity, it is also very difficult for us to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u16	Finally. Then it gets a little difficult, of course. The proposal is here now and you will finally have to say 'yes' or 'no'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u17	This is gonna be really hard, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u18	So in that respect, I think it would be really good for the debate if we could hear from your group what is actually the loss that you say is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u19	I do not know what the outcome of the negotiations could be. So then I don't know what degrees of loss you're talking about. That brings me to my lamentation, if you will allow me, Mr President. On behalf of my group, I have raised a number of points: is this the time when we should meet in this Chamber to discuss this proposal? I have already said that the House of Representatives spoke about it at a very different time. We have also reiterated the appreciation of the efforts, precisely of the initiators, for limiting those consequences of the Brexit for the Dutch in the UK. However, we have always said: we understand how the law works. He says, "We're not just gonna do double passports." If you want to achieve a weighting, you should have as much clarity as possible about that loss of rights. That would therefore be in favour of saying: let us talk about this later. If it turns out that at the end of the year we are in a situation that we can remember from last year, in which we are heading for a no-deal, then I say: ask this Chamber's opinion on this, and then I can also give Mrs Karimi a very hard answer. Turns out there will be appointments... Oh, Mr. President, Mrs. Karimi might want a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u20	That's right, but I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you. Then I'll continue my argument. If it turns out that there will eventually be agreements, you can say: it has been a lot of work, initiators, but we can leave our work. Or the initiators can say: there is now a withdrawal agreement, but if we look at the implementation agreements, then the rights of those Dutch people in the UK are still not sufficiently secured and we still think legal action is necessary. But that clarity is not there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u22	I'm really confused. I don't understand what argument is being used anymore. I would like to hear from the CDA colleague whether the timing of this debate is the problem. Is the problem that we do not yet know exactly what the outcome of the negotiations is? Or is the problem the double passport, the double nationality? Where is the sting in this debate for the CDA now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u23	I don't think I've mentioned so many arguments. Maybe that'll make it a little tricky. I am trying to use my time to get answers from the initiators, but also from the Secretary of State, so that we as a group can make an assessment. Maybe that's the point. I understand that there is a great temptation to talk about the Brexit for a very long time or the question of dual nationality. On both points, the CDA takes the law as a given. The fact that the law currently prohibits dual nationality is the starting point. The question we all have to answer is: do we make an exception?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u24	Then I am very curious about the arguments. I hear between the lines that the CDA Group has not yet taken a decision. I would have interpreted that differently. My group is very pleased with that. There is one thing I would like to say about timing. Yesterday I spoke to a Dutchman who, after eleven years, after a great career, went back to the Netherlands because of this constant uncertainty. He told me that there are a lot of people who would rather be clear tomorrow than the day after tomorrow and certainly not at the end of the year. If we adopt this law here next week, a lot of Dutch people in the United Kingdom will wake up on 1 July with the feeling: huh, our rights are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u25	I'd like to give a small response to that. The fact that we need to talk about this for longer does not just have to do with the interests of a group of Dutch people in the UK. This has to do with the weighting required by the prohibition of dual nationality in relation to those interests. This is particularly true now that the situation has changed completely. There is no longer a de facto no-deal. Johnson won the election. Mr Sjoerdsma rightly said in the House of Representatives that this is actually a crucial factor. Johnson also got his agreement through the House of Commons. Contrary to what you said in your own term, the UK is already from the EU. We're in that situation now. The question then is whether we need to adapt a sleeve to that. Or have the withdrawal agreement and the implementation agreement secured rights in such a way that it would be better to stick to the principle of the law? That is my point of criticism. Why are we talking about this at a stage where there is still so little clarity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u26	Mrs Stienen for the third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u27	I'm left in the same confusion. I get the impression that the CDA wants to prevent an exception from being made to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap because it wants to maintain a uniform, one-dimensional loyalty of one passport. My group regrets that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u28	May I ask a question back, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u29	No, you can't ask each other questions again and again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u30	Perhaps Mrs Stienen will be able to answer the question in the second time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u31	Perhaps a short answer and then you will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u32	I guess I'm gonna repeat myself then, and that's not the point. We have to acknowledge that we are in a completely different situation. Mrs Karimi has done so openly. That makes it a little more difficult to talk. With a tough no-deal you can make a different consideration than in a situation with a deal and other execution agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u33	You've finished your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. Mr Van Hattem has the floor on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. The formal title of the present bill actually says enough about its undesirableness. It is about the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. Creating exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap simply means making double nationality possible. The PVV is always opposed to this in principle. One nationality must be the starting point. The Brexit doesn't make this any different, even for a so-called group of applicants, according to the applicants. Are you sure this is such a limited group? We don't know. The authors of the bill and the government have no idea of this. In replying to our written questions to this bill, they indicate that Dutch people abroad do not have to register with the Dutch representative. Therefore, no precise data are available on the number of Dutch in the United Kingdom. They assume that this would be a limited number. So that is completely out of the blue. Who is this group of Dutch people in the UK? This is really not just about employees at Unilever's head office who have to seek refuge on the other side of the North Sea now that their head office in the UK is more attractive after the Brexit. Which large group of Dutch people will be helped with a double nationality so that they can always be chosen for the country they benefit most from? This may be demonstrated by the following. In 2006/2007, there were rather alarming reports that a lot of people from the Somali community who did not want to apply and did not get benefits quickly enough in their experience, because they received benefits more quickly and did not have to apply. That's where a huge group went and that group is coming back. I am concerned about a group that is totally unintegrated. It could be 30,000, and that's what I'm concerned about. Everyone thinks that there will be a group coming to the Netherlands who may be enthusiastic in our Dutch society again tomorrow, but perhaps that is not the case. I think that is an aspect that we should also mention here, otherwise we are telling everyone that it is all people who work successfully in the City who come back to the Netherlands. So it's not. Mr. Chairman. These aren't my words, but it's a literal quote from CDA spokesperson Van Toorenburg in the Lower House when dealing with this bill. This is a valid point. We should not throw ourselves at the issue of dual nationalities. Last March, the Brabants Dagblad wrote that more and more Somalis came back from the UK to Tilburg and knocked on the door at the homeless shelter. It would even involve 40,000 Somalis with a Dutch passport. Of the Somalis in the Netherlands, at least 70% are in the assistance. Should we now reward them with a dual nationality so that they can benefit from the facilities of the country of choice at any time? Last January CBS wrote that Somalis are the largest group that emigrates from the Netherlands to the UK. If these Somalis from the UK come back to the Netherlands in a set and jump, they also need to be provided with a home. Last August, the judge forced the municipality of Almere to provide a house directly to a Dutch-Somalic family from Birmingham.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u37	I took note, no doubt like Mr Van Hattem, of the argument that the CDA used in the House of Representatives. I found that more appropriate to your party than to the CDA to make this argument. You're doing that here. You have, I suppose, also seen what Mr Mulder's reaction was, for example. He then said to the CDA: just if you think that those Somalis should not come back, that was Mrs Van Toorenburg's argument, should you not be in favour of the initiative proposal because one of those people's fears is that they should return to the Netherlands in order not to lose rights? If PVV and CDA use the argument that they are afraid of Somalis, they should be just for the law and not against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u38	That's a false argument. By giving that group a dual nationality, you always give them the opportunity to continue to hop up and down to the country they benefit most from. That is precisely the fault of the principle of double nationality. That's how you facilitate that possibility. Now it is clear, because now one has to make a choice. If you have chosen Britain, you will remain in Britain. You should not facilitate those people by always keeping the door open to come back to the Netherlands and get a house here again. That's what they forced on the municipality of Almere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u39	For the record, I agree with the reasoning of CDA and PVV, but I do not share it. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. But you accept, at least, that those Somalis you say should stay there, if this law is not adopted, can come back quickly because they will at least guarantee their rights in the Dutch language.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u40	That's another assumption you're making. You say they'll all come back, but a lot of them have just gone to England because the conditions are even easier there. By giving them a double nationality, you always keep the door open to come back. So you're not keeping them in Great Britain. No, you say: here you have a ticket with which you can still come back to the Netherlands, if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u41	I'm just gonna let it go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u42	Then continue your argument, Mr. Van Hattem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We should not facilitate this migration benefit with a dual nationality, with the constant possibility of coming back to the Netherlands. This group has previously applied for and obtained asylum here, but then left for the UK for opportunistic reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u44	I think we should keep the debate pure. We are talking in this bill about Dutch people who can get another nationality. You can think about that any way you want, but it's about Dutch people. Mr Van Hattem always talks about Somalis, but they are not Somalis, they are Dutch. According to Article 1, they are equal to all other Dutch people, just like my colleague Van Hattem and I. Whether you're from Brabant or Somalia, if you're Dutch, you're Dutch. Would it not be more purer if Mr Van Hattem also mentioned the Dutch of Somali origin who do or do not return to the Netherlands, and did not pretend that your Dutch identity would not be a real nationality if you had a Somali origin and Dutch nationality? That's a little problematic, I guess. We're talking about Dutch people and then we call them that, or you're talking about others. But they're not at stake right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u45	We need to be pretty clear about this. It doesn't have to be Dutch. They could also have a Somali passport. This group is also referred to by the CBS as Somalis. They take the opportunity to move to the United Kingdom when it suits them. We are also talking about a group that causes the necessary problems. I refer to Tilburg, with Mr Kox well-known. Tilburg-Noord is popularly referred to as Klein Mogadishu because of the large group of Somalis who have been causing enormous problems there for years. That group also relies on its Somali identity, nationality and customs. It is a group that constantly hops up and down to the United Kingdom when there are easy facilities there. So we are talking about a group that identifies itself as a Somali and often also has a Somali passport, so not a Dutch passport for the moment. It is therefore clearly a defined group, of which the CDA has also rightly found in the Lower House that this can cause major problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u46	The point is that we keep the discussion pure. Mr Van Hattem is trying to tell me what the popular word in my own city is saying. Come and check on us more often, I'd say, and you can see what's being said. But the important thing is that we keep things clean. This is a legislative proposal to allow the Dutch who live in Great Britain to take on double nationality. In that debate it does not fit to say: yes, but there live Dutch and other Dutch, and with the other Dutch I have a problem. That there are problems with Somalis... Don't tell me anything. We know that in Tilburg and everything is done about it. But we must keep the debate pure. You can't perform two kinds of Dutch people here. Otherwise, the suspicion might arise that Mr.Van Hattem didn't actually have so many problems with a double nationality for those neat white Dutch who work there in the City, but have a problem with another part of those Dutch. If he thinks so, he must say so, but otherwise I would say: keep the debate pure. We are talking about Dutch people who should or should not have another nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u47	That is also an assumption of Mr Kox, because it can also be a group which has only a Somali nationality and only a residence status in the Netherlands, which then went to Great Britain and which does not have a Dutch passport, but is able to apply for it with this legislation. It calls for different groups, but I have to say that there is a large group of 40,000 Somalis who are problematic. Mr Kox also acknowledges this, because the problems in Tilburg are well known to him. So we have a big problem if it can continue to move up and down between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. So let them stay there. If, in addition to Dutch nationality, they also have a Somali or British nationality, Dutch nationality will automatically lapse after ten years if they stay in the UK. But the initiators and supporters of this law want to set a precedent and continue to facilitate open borders and mass immigration. The dual nationality must be given full space. For example, they write in the reply: "(...) the current attitude of the British Government towards persons in the UK of a different nationality than the British, even though they lived before the Brexit in the UK, is still hostile." That is a gross reproach to the British Government, a tone which the initiators seem to be resentful of the Brexit, of the failure of their europhile ideal. The initiators are chasing the EU like lemmings. They say: "Unfortunately, confidence in a good regime for Dutch people in the UK has not improved since then (...) This was also reflected in the letter sent by Brexit negotiator on behalf of the EU to Prime Minister Johnson, expressing his concern that Johnson would make EU citizens' rights in the UK worse." The Eurocratic lobbyist Barnier is proclaiming something in a negotiating situation, and for the authors of this law, that is proof that Prime Minister Johnson has nothing but evil and hostile intentions. And what are they worried about? A lot of bureaucratic matters are being added, but also an aspect that Britain as an autonomous country really needs to be able to decide for itself. I quote the initiators: "The exit agreement also does not provide for the right to vote and stand as a candidate in local elections for EU citizens in the UK, which could lead to an unequal position in terms of democratic rights vis-à-vis British citizens." The right to vote of non-British nationals in local elections is something the UK itself should be able to decide. This privilege for foreign residents has not always been taken for granted in our country and other EU countries either, so what are the initiators involved in? The initiators also say: "There is no reason to suppose that the current exit agreement and its implementation will ensure sufficient civil rights for Dutch citizens in the UK, especially in view of the UK government's attitude towards migrants." Once again, the initiators show that they are making a point of the British Government's attitude towards migrants. Can they indicate what they mean by this? Or, through this initiative law, do they want to fight against stricter migration rules in particular and thereby undo one of the most important reasons for the choice of the British population in the Brexireféendum? Do the initiators find it uncomfortable that the British are crossing their own borders again, about whom they may or may not let in, without Brussels' meddling? Or as Charlie, a Welsh voter who voted for the Brexit, said in a newspaper, "we are now a colony of the EU." The main reason for the Brexit is: "Uncontrolled immigration. Hundreds of thousands of people were added every year. This puts enormous pressure on our services. schools, health care and housing........................................................................................................................................................... It is therefore only natural for the British Government to choose primarily for the interests of the British rather than for the interests of the migrants, and therefore not for the opportunistic interests of a group of 40,000 Somalis who hope to go back and forth randomly between the countries that benefit most. Charlie's words are not much different than those for which already in 1968 Enoch Powell, then British Conservative Minister, warned in his famous "rivers of blood" speech. I quote him in Dutch: "While for the immigrant access to this country was access to privileges and eagerly sought opportunities, the impact on the existing population was quite different. For their incomprehensible reasons and in order to implement a flawed democratic decision on which they were never consulted, they found that they had themselves become strangers in their own country. They found that there were insufficient hospital beds for their women in childbirth, that there was no place for their children at school, that their homes and neighborhoods had changed beyond recognition, that their plans and expectations for the future were in ruins. And at work, they noticed that employers showed more flexible demands for discipline and competence for immigrants than for the native workers. Over time, they were increasingly told that they were now the undesirable ones."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u48	Of course, Mr Van Hattem is free to present his anti-immigration rhetoric here, but we are talking about a law that allows the Dutch who live in the United Kingdom to retain or regain their nationality. What does that contribute to the words you just said? Is it true that if we adopt this law, the women you just mentioned will or will not be given extra beds to give birth to? Does something change the law? You come up with this rhetoric and link it to this law. How does what you have just said affect this law or vice versa?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u49	That has everything to do with it, directly or indirectly. You just heard it from a number of speakers here. They say: it's really terrible what happened; making that Brexit happen changes everything. But the Brexit is about immigration. That was the main theme for a lot of British people. They wanted to be able to cross their own boundaries. If immigration into the United Kingdom can be reduced, they will indeed have better facilities for the British themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u50	And how does this law affect immigration into the United Kingdom? Are there tens of thousands more Somalis coming through here to use your words? Of course I agree with you, Mr. Kox, but I'm going along with the rhetoric of the PVV. Are there tens of thousands more Somalis coming to the United Kingdom to take away jobs, beds and women?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u51	It must be clear that if they are facilitated by this law in the preservation of double passports, immigration will become easier. Of course you also get a piece of chain migration, because you get family formation, offspring that can also retain their passport. It's possible with family migration. People often don't look for partners in Britain or the Netherlands. No, they're bringing in their partner from Somalia. Through marriage migration, a link is re-established and another passport is issued. That's a working factor in this. But the principle is: double nationalities make immigration easier. I quote this because it goes against the Brexit's anti-immigration spirit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u52	Mr Van der Burg, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u53	And last, Mr President, because I am going to debate with many colleagues to convince each other on the basis of the debate. I went into a debate with Mr Van Hattem because I believe that certain texts cannot go unspoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u54	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you. That's exactly why I mentioned Enoch Powell. If only they'd listened to him then. After 52 years, they're still in denial. We see it at the VVD and now at Mr Van der Burg. So you get the situation that mass immigration continues. Instead of listening to Enoch Powell, he was pushed aside by the Conservative Party out of stupid political correctness. The same mistake is made by the initiators of this law. By facilitating dual nationality, migrants are given more privileges, with all the consequences. Is that also the wish of the parties who voted in the Lower House for this bill? In addition, it is made even more easy for them. According to the State Secretary, the free evidence theory applies to determine whether they have actually had their main residence in the UK continuously from 23 June 2016. An employment contract with an employer established in the UK, a registration at a British school, bank statements with an address in the UK can therefore all be presented as evidence. But what does this say about actual residence? Someone can work for a British company and still live in the Netherlands or elsewhere. For example, Hassan may work for a qatshop in Manchester but have his actual stay in Tilburg-Noord, with or without GBA registration. And, for example, are bank statements with an address on Guernsey or another tax-friendly British Channel Island sufficient? I would like more clarity from the Secretary of State on this. Mr. Chairman. It's okay to be clear. The PVV is pleased for the British that they have freed themselves from the EU's power with the Brexit. We hope that the Netherlands will follow this good example with a nextit as soon as possible. The PVV also rejects the dual nationality. We will therefore also vote against this bill. Mr President, as far as first time is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u56	I never thought it would happen, but I am incredibly happy that the PVV is so committed to the interests of another country. It almost seems like I hear someone from a British political party talking here. What an empathy for what could go wrong in Britain or the United Kingdom with an initiative law of Dutch political parties! Now, seriously. I hear Mr Van Hattem talking about Dutch people from different backgrounds, but all Dutch people. Do I actually hear him implicitly saying that this law should be allowed for Dutch people who have lived back in the Netherlands until the sixth generation and are now in trouble in Britain? Does he really want some kind of clause to be made in Article 1 of our Constitution? It almost seems as if I hear a story here about A-Dutch and B-Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u57	No way. We are in principle opposed to double nationality. Whether you're here six generations or you're just flying a plane from Mogadishu: no double nationality. That is simply a very firm position that we are taking here. You say that I stand here defending the interests of the United Kingdom. No, I stand here defending the UK's choice to leave the EU, to get out of those terrible claws of Brussels. That is a shared interest that we have. We, as the Netherlands, have to get out too. Here in the Knight's Room, the European stars are high above our Constitution. We need to get rid of that. That's the same interest the British have. Just as they got off with the Brexit, we also need to get out, so that we can finally get rid of the stars.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u58	Let me ask you another question. The nationality issue is of course up to the PVV. Suppose you have a passport as a Dutchman. You have Dutch nationality. Then you have the same rights as all Dutch. Does Mr Van Hattem agree with D66 on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u59	Basically, yes, but you might be trying to put it in a frame right now. I just talked about the Somali community. There may also be a Somali passport, a double passport or a British passport and a Somali passport, and perhaps a Dutch passport. We just need to get rid of those multiple passports. It must be clear: a person must be of one nationality and under one jurisdiction and not under more than one jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u60	Mrs. Stienen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u61	I find it really unbelievable that I am a Dutch parliamentarians in the Knight's Room on the question of whether, on the basis of the Dutch Constitution, all Dutch citizens have the same rights, hear answers 'in principle', as if an exception is possible. That seems worrying to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u62	You put words in my mouth that I didn't use. I said that in principle it is. Only, if someone has multiple nationalities, you have a different situation. If someone has one Dutch passport, that is also the starting point. But in this case we are also talking about people with multiple nationalities, and that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u63	I still can't quite understand how the PVV's position of principle is now structured. I call our queen. She has two nationalities and I must say that many Dutch people are quite happy with that. But let me not have that discussion. There are many people watching, British living in the Netherlands and Dutch living in the United Kingdom. They look because they are curious about what this Chamber thinks of their situation and how they should act. What does Mr Van Hattem advise the British who live in the Netherlands to do? What does he advise the Dutch in the UK? Do they have to go back? Do the British have to move again? What does the PVV think is best now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u64	I don't advise anyone to do anything. When it comes to nationality, you have to make a choice. We choose one nationality. If you choose to live in the United Kingdom and you want to stay there permanently, it makes sense to opt for British nationality in the end, provided that it is accepted by the United Kingdom, because it is of course their own responsibility to decide. If you want to stay there permanently, it is also logical that you make the choice to become Brit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u65	The point is that many people don't know exactly what their situation will be. It's often mentioned, they might have to take care of their parents, start caring for them. Their children are moving or they are still children and may want to study in the Netherlands. What does the PvdA think of the situation that you can't always choose and that it can be very useful to have two nationalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u66	What the PvdA thinks, I have heard that obvious slip of the tongue from you. I do not want to enter into it. But what does the PVV think? We are simply opposed to this dual nationality and we do not think it is convenient to have two nationalities. No, you have to make sure you don't fall under different jurisdictions. We are talking about the United Kingdom now, but perhaps we will talk about Turkey later. If people also have a dual nationality, have a Turkish passport, and then are called upon to serve as a military officer for dictator Erdogan, you have another situation. We need to get rid of that. We must ensure that there is one nationality, one loyalty and one jurisdiction. And not all kinds of different nationalities. You can say it's convenient. In practical negotiations, we have talked about it several times today, with just as well an excellent speech by Mr Doornhof on this matter from the United Kingdom. We must also trust Prime Minister Johnson to find a good, practical arrangement to deal with it, but not say in advance: it is terrible, it is hostile what Johnson is doing. We have to trust that a good arrangement will come out of that, because why should we rely on those horrible Eurocrats in Brussels, who impose everything on us, and cannot rely on the United Kingdom, where they are simply making a very sensible decision, at least a very sensible decision to take this EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Fox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u68	Is Mr Van Hattem saying that people who simply live in a certain way are not loyal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u69	Now Mrs. Vos is filling out everything again. I'm saying a double nationality can create a double loyalty. That can also bring people into a conflict of conscience. It can happen; I'm not saying it happens, but it can happen, and you have to prevent it. We as the Netherlands must stand for our nationality, for our Dutch citizenship. That is one nationality, the Dutch nationality if you are Dutch, and not one or more other nationalities. That is simply a very clear and clear starting point. Then you never end up in a loyalty dispute, if you take that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mrs. Fox, fourth and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u71	I conclude that PVV nationality, loyalty and identity are all one concept, but for most people it is not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Fox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u73	Mr President, in Mrs Vos' cosmopolitan world, where anyone with open borders can go anywhere and every culture is completely equal and Islam can be hugged completely, yes, that may apply, but we are clear in it. We stand up for our culture, our identity. And if we in the Netherlands set up our legal system in such a way that we have one nationality, then that is clear. Then you never have that discussion. And then you don't end up in these weird cosmopolitan discussions that Mrs Vos seems to be stuck in. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. Mrs Huizinga-Heringa has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. We are talking today about a bill which we all hope will never come into force as a law. That's a special situation. It is also special that we are discussing an initiative proposal. It's not very common. My compliments to the proposers for their commitment and their perseverance. And Mr. Van der Burg soon, right after me, I saw success. The UK's decision to leave the European Union is the absolute low point in the history of the European Union. The UK's departure means a sensitive weakening of the European Union, a weakening both within the Union and on the global political scene. For our country, the Brexit will have economic consequences and the Dutch in the UK will not be able to escape the consequences of Brexit. The period between the outcome of the referendum and the final exit decision meant a period of uncertainty for EU citizens in the UK and for the British in the different EU countries. This uncertainty continues. Will the agreements first confirmed by May and later by Johnson remain in force? Or will a hard Brexit still keep these people in resident uncertainty? The exit agreement is already there, but it is still not certain with which agreements. In order to meet this uncertainty, the initiators have submitted a legislative proposal that should provide clarity for the Dutch in the UK. The Christian Union Group appreciates this initiative. At the same time, we have a number of reservations. We are not yet convinced that this bill is the correct answer to the situation that has arisen. We are talking about two tracks, proportionality and feasibility. Mr. Chairman. Our country has the single nationality as its starting point. Anyone who voluntarily chooses another nationality loses the Dutch citizenship. There are some exceptions to this rule, but this is the guiding principle. Now the initiators propose to make an exception to this principle in the special case of Dutch residents living and working in the UK for a certain period of time. In the light of the situation created by the forthcoming Brexit, this may be understandable. But compared to other cases of Dutch people making choices with far-reaching consequences as a result of the Dutch single nationality policy, that exception is difficult to explain. Does not count their situation, there are plenty of examples of Dutch residents living abroad, who, due to unforeseen circumstances, face difficult choices, because a dual nationality is not possible. I have read a number of clear examples of this in the explanatory memorandum to the proposal for a national law of Mr Sjoerdsma and Mr Marcouch. For these cases, the law makes no exception. My group would like to hear from the initiators why they believe that a distinction they make between these cases is justified. My group has questions about this. I am referring in particular to the human aspect. In one case, because it is the result of the Brexit, an exception is made, not in the other case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u76	This is an interesting point. That was also my question to the Christian Union. I understand that you say that there should be no exception for Dutch people who live in the United Kingdom, because that is perhaps a good thing. But I am curious to see what the position of the Christian Union is, also in view of the debate we just had with Mr Van Hattem on multiple nationality. Does the Christian Union think that the current practice of having one is desirable? Or does the Christian Union think that multiple nationality should be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u77	In fact, I do not think this question matters in this debate. At the moment we have the situation that there is a single nationality and that the law says so. It is not for nothing that I referred to the explanatory memorandum of the own-initiative proposal. I would find it much more purer if we had a debate on the desirability of dual citizenship or not. Let's see if that's what we want. This could also have consequences for the Dutch who are now experiencing the consequences of the Brexit. But to make such an exception now, while we have this law and that debate has not been held, while there are other people who do experience the consequences of that single nationality, I have difficulty with that. I would like to hear from the initiators why they believe that this is justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u78	Legislation often goes through a lot, often doesn't go from A to B in a very neat order: we're going to deal with the big thing first and then the small thing. Legislation is often created by casusism. We now have a casusism that is very acute for people we know, which I also see daily in my children's classroom. I remain curious, and I still want to ask the Christian Union, because I think it is very important, also for the future and for the debate. I also mentioned this in my contribution: let's open those shutters. I remain curious about the position of the Christian Union, which I know as a fairly open party, on multiple nationality. I think that's what we should be talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u79	That's the same question. In fact, I tend to give the same answer: that is not the issue now. There is now an exception to an existing law. What the Christian Union might find in a debate on double nationality or not, I think we should think about that very carefully together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u80	Mrs. Fox, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u81	Can I conclude that the Christian Union does not yet have a position on this issue, on multiple nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u82	I do not want the position on multiple nationality to be part of this debate, because it does not belong here. Here we have to look at the law as it is now. And what is reasonable now and with which you do justice to others, who are in a difficult situation because of that double nationality. So far we say: yes, we take it, because our law is just like that. We have to do this right now. Now I take the situation as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u83	Mrs. Fox, fourth and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u84	We're still very curious. Following on from what Mrs Karimi said earlier in her speech, perhaps we can still use these nine months to have that debate on what is in the coalition agreement, which you have also co-signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u85	I didn't sign it, but debate is always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u86	That's a very interesting answer. I would like to ask Mrs Huizinga about that. The Christian Union has signed the coalition agreement. It does contain the intention to nationalise nationality law. This should also make it possible for the first generation of immigrants and immigrants to have dual nationality. So I would say that there has been a possibility, given by this government in recent times, of resolving it in principle. That didn't happen. Then you have an acute situation. You'll have to work with an exception. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u87	No, because I would like to hear from the initiators whether there really is no other solution than this one. That's what my questions are about. This is also reflected in the rest of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u88	That is a little too easy perhaps, because the initiators have chosen this route. If they had seen another alternative, they would have. So the reality is that we are discussing this bill now. Being a principle is fantastic. I am always very much in favour of this, but you must also be able to solve concrete problems. This is such a situation right now. I am surprised that you say: then I want to remain in my position of principle and not offer a solution to that group of Dutch people. Then the question to the Christian Union is: what is your alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u89	We must indeed see if there is no solution. In his speech, Mr Doornhof asked: when do we really know what the solutions are? So we need to see if there's a solution, but I'm not in favour of using a situation as a stepping stone to a double nationality because we'd like to. In your question, it sounds a bit like we would say: okay, a double nationality is good, so this can be done. I am afraid that we are losing sight of the fact that there are many people who also suffer negative or difficult consequences from the fact that we still have a single nationality as a starting point. That's all I care about. I want to have a pure debate and not pre-empt something that we may or may not want and use this situation for that purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u90	Mrs. Karimi, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u91	A number of points are mixed up. I agree in principle with Mrs Huizinga that you do not want to create legal inequality. There are many harrowing situations in which such a solution could be conceivable. I agree. Only, we are now in a situation where a large group of Dutch people are talking about a number of between 40,000 and 100,000 people could end up in such a situation. This is a safety net. I would like to appeal to the Christian Union to think about supporting such a safety net. In principle, it is no more or less than a safety net for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u92	I am very curious whether the initiators can convince me that there is indeed no other option and no other solution than this proposed solution of dual nationality. That is what the rest of my speech is aimed at. With approval, my group has read the opinion of the section of the Council of State. In that opinion, the Council notes that the Dutch who reside in the UK after the Brexit are in a more unfavourable position than before, but that the problems are temporary and at the core of the residence regime. In this context, the irreversible solution of the proposal is not proportionate. The initiators replied that there was no more proportionate solution and that neither did the Council propose an alternative solution. Mr. Chairman. My question to the initiators is whether they have indeed asked the Council for advice on alternative more proportionate solutions. I'd like a response. From the EU, the proposal has been made that Member States exempt from a visa requirement for non-EU nationals. Do the initiators agree with me that this is an example of a more proportionate measure that can remove part of the pain of the Dutch who choose British nationality? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether that request from the EU has been followed up. From the UK, EU citizens are given the opportunity to apply for a settled or pre-setled status. This status gives them a number of rights allowing them to continue to live and work in the UK while maintaining their own nationality. That seems to us to be an example of a less far-reaching rule. Do the initiators agree with me? In the documents, the initiators shuffle away this possibility, partly because it is only laid down in secondary legislation. Could the Secretary of State perhaps comment on the possibilities offered by this measure and how she sees the objection of this commitment? Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask a question about the entry into force of the proposal. We understand that there is a great deal of concern for the initiators to quickly clarify the situation for the Dutch who live in the UK. That brings me to the following comments. Article 4 provides that the Royal Decree will enter into force. Paragraph 1 states that this decision shall be taken when no agreement has been reached in which the rights of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom are adequately guaranteed. The word "sufficient" gives room for consideration. In the reply, the initiators indicated that the agreements currently contained in the Treaty of Accession constitute the lower limit for the interpretation of the concept as far as they are concerned. But if something is changed in these agreements during the negotiation process, there may be differences in whether or not the requirement for entry into force of the law is met. Can the parliament intervene if the Royal Decree to bring the law into force is not taken, while members of the parliament are elected to the First or Second Chamber; how exactly do I have to find out whether the rights of the Dutch people are not sufficiently guaranteed and vice versa? Have I understood correctly to the initiators that the law can only enter into force if there is a final farewell without any agreement, or is it also possible that the law will enter into force despite the fact that there are agreements, but that these agreements within the deal are not assessed as insufficient? If so, it makes my previous question even more pregnant. Who decides when that law will or will not enter? Mr. Chairman. My group is not yet convinced of the desirability of the initiative law in its proposed form, but I look forward to answering my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you very much, Mrs Huizinga. I call Mr Van der Burg on behalf of the VVD Group for his maiden speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. It is true, as Mr Van Rooijen said, that I have had the opportunity to debate several times with some of you, but now my maiden speech. The boss made me believe it once. Mr. Chairman. Although I was born in Amsterdam, right after I was born I moved to Friesland, to Oosterwolde where I lived until I was 9th. In September 1975 I moved back to Amsterdam and my mother, brother and I moved to the Bijlmermeer, not knowing that I would live there for almost 40 years. The Bijlmer or, as it is now officially called, Amsterdam-Zuidoost, is my home. I finished elementary school, did my high school, got married, my kids were born there. In short, Amsterdam-Zuidoost is in me. It was there that I began to be interested in politics, although my years in Friesland were the basis for that, because in May 1977 one of the hostage-takings that took place in a school in Bovensmilde, near Oosterwolde, took place in those years in the Netherlands. And everyone can remember the images of the children behind the windows who were forced by the hostage takers to shout, "Van Agt, we want to live." Oosterwolde was not far from Bovensmilde. So my school at the time wasn't far from that school. So it could have been my school, too. That's how I changed my mind. I started following everything around that hostage situation, the school, and the way the government reacted. And so I began to be interested in politics and soon after reading all the election programs it became clear that I was a liberal and a VVD man. When in the spring of 1980 squatters chased the ME on the run at the squatters' riots in the Vondelstraat and the army and tanks were needed to restore order in Amsterdam, it was clear to me: I want to go into politics, I want to go into the city council, I want to be alderman of Amsterdam. Just 16 years old I joined the VVD in 1982. It was the year of the election in which all my schoolmates wore ban-de-bombuttons and I wore an Ed Nijpels button. I am a liberal and I believe, in my heart, that people are the ones who come to justice most freely. I am someone who has great faith in the individual: someone who believes that people should be able to make their own decisions and someone who is convinced that happiness should come from people themselves and not from the government. That applies to you, Mr President, and that applies to all of us: people who have had every opportunity in life, who have been lucky with a good set of brains, who have come to where they are through hard work. But there are also people who have been less affected in life, who do not survive without support or care. In the liberal society I seek, we give freedom as much as possible to anyone who can have it and we support those who are not, not yet or no longer able to take care of themselves. We support those who can't make it without that support. For me, this includes something very important, something that also affects our work as politicians and administrators. In 1987 I entered the district council of Amsterdam Zuidoost to become district alderman in September 1992. Two weeks later, Sunday night, the phone rang. It was my mother. Grandpa just saw a plane crash. The Bijlmer disaster was a fact. It was a few days after that Sunday night that I learned my most important lesson. There was a kind of consultation hour near the district office where people could contact with their questions and complaints. It was crowded, it was chaotic. A lady stood in front of me and was calling me names, because the government didn't take care of a number of things properly. I don't even know what it was about anymore, but I just thought: well, ma'am, don't look at the government right away, look at what you could have done yourself. And then I saw a woman standing in my corner of my eye against a pillar, small, silent, turned inside herself. It wasn't just a woman. It was Mrs. Addo. Mrs. Addo who was waiting for someone to have time for her. Mrs. Addo who had lost her three children Cynthia, Marcus and Maybel in the disaster. Still can't think about that moment without getting a lump down my throat. We are there as politicians and administrators to defend the interests of our citizens. We are here to listen and to stand up for those who come to us, who speak, send petitions, demonstrate. But we need more and more for those who remain unheard of, because they do not know how to find the way, do not have the power and are unable to make their voices heard. It is precisely us as politicians and administrators that can be expected to be required not only to look at those who stand before us, but to look at those who we can just see from the corners of our eyes. Mr. Chairman. After this insight into why I went into politics and how I stand in politics now the present proposal. First of all, compliments to the initiators. Creating an initiative law is complicated, takes a lot of time and requires a lot of MPs. Apart from the question of whether we agree with the content of own-initiative laws, it is important that we appreciate that the Lower House, if the Cabinet does not come up with proposals, makes its own initiative proposal and thus keeps the Cabinet sharp. However, I am in favour of always using the instrument of a motion to invite the cabinet to come forward with proposals. Mr. Chairman. This debate is not about what we think of the departure of the British from the European Union, a choice made by the voters and representatives of the people in the United Kingdom and which we therefore have to respect. Nor is the debate about the effects of the British's departure on our economy, the balance of power in the European Union or other extremely important effects which certainly deserve a good debate, good decision-making and excellent implementation. These belong in another place or at least at another time. Now we are talking about what we think of this law, which seeks to strengthen the position of the Dutch in the United Kingdom and to safeguard their rights. In the opinion of the VVD, this law is satisfactory in terms of legality, efficiency, feasibility and enforcement, so that we have a positive basis for this proposal. The Council of State is critical in its opinion. In a number of respects, therefore, the initiators have also made adjustments. Appreciate the VVD. The VVD invites both the initiators and the State Secretary to reflect on this and to reflect on this. Does the Secretary of State consider that the bill with the points that have been amended has become better and stronger in her view? However, an important point of criticism of the Council of State remains, and that concerns the proportionality of this proposal. In their response, the initiators have indicated that this is a unique situation that not only requires a unique response, but where other means do not or do not fully have the intended effect. This is an exceptional situation. A family member leaves the family and in the separation process there is a divorce in the air. And it is precisely in the event of a divorce that the interests of the weaker members of the family can be compromised. That could be the case here. After all, if no treaty is concluded and we break up without agreement, we are entirely dependent on the outgoing partner when it comes to safeguarding the interests of our compatriots in the United Kingdom. This law aims to protect those interests and therefore to ensure that those who are not asked to give up their present existence and return to the Netherlands in order to preserve their rights. The law does this by creating the possibility of dual nationality. And that is sensitive, not only in parts of parliament, but also in parts of society. We also saw today the problem of possible double loyalty if we have two nationalities. Apart from the fact that the Cabinet has a Deputy Prime Minister with a dual nationality, the States-General has a Vice-President with a dual nationality and, as Mrs Vos has just said, we have a Queen with a double nationality and we do not in any way doubt the loyalty of these persons, we do not see how the adoption of this law would change anything about the loyalty of the people who it concerns. It doesn't change their being. They get the opportunity to protect themselves better by retaining their Dutch nationality and thus remain EU citizens, but their role and position in society, their connection with the Netherlands, their loyalty, does not change anything. Is this what the Christian Union gave it, just like demand for a broader discussion on a dual nationality? The answer to that is a clear no. Only in the very exceptional case that another country would leave the EU could it be discussed, but as much as today's debate is about what we think of the Brexit, its impact on Europe's economy and its stability, this discussion is today about what we generally think of dual nationalities. This is about the protection of Dutch people who, like many others, are faced with the consequences of a decision that they themselves have not been able to take part in. We would like to see this confirmed today by the initiators and by the Secretary of State, even though it was done in the House of Representatives. The SGP, at a time earlier than today in the debate in the written input, and the Christian Union today has put another sensitive issue on the table. That is that the law will enter into force if the interests of the people for whom this law is intended are not sufficiently protected. As Mrs Huizinga has just said, because of the word "sufficient" there is a valuation element in the decision whether or not to enter into force. This makes the decision not only a legal decision, but also a political decision. I would like not only a reaction from the initiators, but certainly also from the Secretary of State, because it will ultimately have to decide whether or not this law will enter into force. Finally, Mr President. The stands are empty today. And even if they had just been open, many people for whom this is an extremely important debate could not have been present today because they live, work and live in the United Kingdom. That would have made it difficult for them to be there. With this law, we will ensure that the return journey to their homeland for visiting family, friends and loved ones is not made even more difficult and that their lives in the United Kingdom are given more certainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u95	Mr. Van der Burg, congratulations on your maiden speech. Allow me to outline some of your background. You studied Dutch law and notarial law at the Vrije Universiteit in your hometown Amsterdam. During your studies, you were already politically active at the VVD, first as a member of the board of the Amsterdam-Zuidoost district and from 1992, at your 27th, as daily director, in charge of well-being and sport, subjects that run as a thread through your political and social career. From 1997 to 2010, you were director of healthcare organisation Bogt/Fontis/Osira. In 2010 you became a leader for the VVD in Amsterdam. You spent nine years in the city council of the capital. After the elections you joined the college of mayor and aldermen and in 2014 you returned to the college of B and W. After the death of Eberhard van der Laan, you were acting mayor for some time. On Amsterdam's aldermanship, you said in an interview with AT5: "This is what I dreamed of as a child. That has become true, that is fantastic." You gained national and even international awareness of your "healthy weight" approach, a package of measures to combat overweight among children. It's remarkable that Mayor Halsema called you a sugar junkie on your way out. She said you needed candy to keep up your unbridled energy. In March 2019 you left Amsterdam politics after 32 years, of which 18 years in the central government. The NRC headlined: "Last left VVD'er leaves Amsterdam." Three months later, on 11 June 2019, you were sworn in as a member of the First Chamber, here in The Hague, the court city. In addition to your First Parliamentary Membership, you are among others Chairman of the National Organisation Social Counsellors, of the Board of Directors of the Aids Fund and Ambassador of the Amsterdam Rescue Brigade. We have seen you regularly at the interrupting microphone in recent months, as spokesman on behalf of the VVD Group on the subject that will again be on the agenda today, namely the temporary rental stop. Now is the moment of your first plenary contribution from behind the speaker's seat. Once again, welcome and we look forward to your further input. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments so that Members can congratulate you. I would ask you to stand up for the rostrum for the congratulations, and I would like to congratulate you first as President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u96	I give the floor to Mrs Nanninga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u97	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. On behalf of the FvD Group, I would like to begin by warmly congratulating Mr Van der Burg on his firm maiden speech. Today, we are pleased to have a delegation from the other side in our midst. On behalf of our group, I would like to express my appreciation for the work done so far by the initiators. Our group welcomes the fact that the British people have been able to vote by referendum on whether or not their kingdom is leaving the EU. We are even more pleased that in that referendum the British chose to leave the megalomaniac ever closer Union. As far as the sense and, above all, the EU's nonsense are concerned, we can continue to deliberate for days, but we are not going to do so, because before us is the legislative proposal on limiting the consequences of the Brexit. Let us focus the debate on that now, but not after I have expressed the hope that one of the most beautiful democratic instruments, the referendum, will one day enable the Dutch to express their opinion on a possible nextit. But now this law is before us today and it does present us with a somewhat dilemma. The Forum for Democracy aims to make the Brexit as smooth as possible. The Brexit, desired by a majority of the British, deserves to succeed. The Brexit with as little negative side effects as possible, that is a very commendable goal, as I say to the initiators. The Dutch of Dutch and British nationality are not forced by this law to choose; a choice that, as many speakers have already outlined to me, can have profound consequences for their work, their lives and their relationships with loved ones. On the other hand, there is the concept of dual nationality, which Forum for Democracy is not a priori fond of. We're very nuanced in this. This law or initiative, I must say, enables the Dutch who live in the United Kingdom to remain there under the same conditions and the same rights, i.e. while retaining or applying for British and Dutch nationality. There are more often exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. We have all read the examples of this in the explanatory memorandum under the heading "Initiative legislative proposal in a historical perspective'. Mr Van Rooijen has also addressed this in detail in his term. The PVV Group has asked the government about the number of persons entitled to this scheme should this law enter into force. There appeared to be no proper registration of persons meeting the criteria or of people with a double passport or of Dutch residents living in the United Kingdom. So that question is not a good answer. Much further than: 100,000 we think, but probably many fewer people will use it, the government did not respond. We think that's a little coffeey. For a party like ours, critical of immigration and dual nationality, it is a red flag. I would ask the initiators to give a brief reflection on this assessment. I also ask whether it is possible to obtain more reliable figures in the foreseeable future. We would also like to know where we stand by numbers. Immigration and double passports are not matters that FvD dealt with lightly. But, Mr. Chairman, sometimes there are bigger interests in play. I'd like to explain. Minister Blok said in the House of Representatives that a no-dealbrexit is still one of the possibilities. The initiators of this law also endorse this. There is also a risk that the rights of Dutch EU residents or of EU residents in general, including the Dutch, will be used as a crowbar or item in the negotiations on a possible trade agreement. This continues the uncertainty for the Dutch in the United Kingdom. That is why we consider it important to introduce this safety net. Better shy than shy, my grandmother always said better. Moreover, this situation transcends the political party of every day and calls for pragmatism. It must be avoided that Dutch people suffer from a chaotic Brexit. Ensuring security for Dutch citizens should be a priority regardless of the party political position on dual nationalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u98	I have to ask Forum a question anyway. You say: we look at it nuancedly. And: we look pragmatically at dual nationality. But I have also always heard Forum say that dual nationality is also about the jurisdiction under which one falls and that one can only fall under one jurisdiction. What is left of that basic and fundamental position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u99	That remains, but in this case we choose to place the priority elsewhere. The Freedom Party comes to a different conclusion in that assessment of facts than Forum, I have already seen after Mr Van Hattem's contribution. We see, as I have outlined, a priority in giving certainty and guarantees to the Dutch who live in Great Britain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mrs Nanninga says that the principle of dual nationality and the application of it remain within one jurisdiction. But by agreeing to this bill, that principle of one jurisdiction is undermined. That's what gets hurt. I have just mentioned it in my speech: we are not just talking about a group of Dutch people working in top jobs in the city of London; it may as well be 40,000 Somalis coming for a benefit if they can continue to fly in and out of the city with a Dutch passport in their pockets. Is that what Forum is trying to do with this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u101	Well, I'd like to make two points. Firstly, Mr Van Hattem talks here about Dutch people of Somali origin. Whether we like it or not, they have a Dutch passport, they are Dutch citizens and there are no rules other than for you and for me or anyone in this room. Secondly, we are concerned about immigration, but that is precisely why we are in favour of this proposal. Mr Van Hattem mentioned a newspaper article stating that Somalis are now returning to the Netherlands massively. If that's what you want to avoid, you have to be in favour of this law. They come here because things are insecure and they have to choose. If they want to live in their community, you have to be there for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u102	Mr Van Hattem, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u103	That's the point I didn't make. I didn't say they'd come back massively. The point is that they always have the opportunity, as soon as they have a Dutch passport in their pocket and as long as they are facilitated with a dual nationality, to continue doing so. I think that is a much bigger problem than today's choice of: we are setting a clear, sharp line: one nationality and one jurisdiction. So one starting point rather than: 'we have a nationality here and there and you can continue to hop up and down for years between the Netherlands, Great Britain and Somalia or any country; whatever is best'. We need to get rid of that. By agreeing to this proposal, you say: we will continue to facilitate this and allow mass immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u104	Mr Van Hattem mentions mass immigration. It has been roughly outlined that there are about 100,000 people to whom this applies. What part of it is of Somali descent is not clear. Mr Van Hattem says: I think. That may be true, but the Group of the Forum for Democracy finds something quite different. We come to a very different conclusion on the basis of the same facts. If we leave all those Dutch people in the United Kingdom the choice, leave the freedom to do so, then we are in favour of this, and the Dutch too have a Somali origin. We cannot and do not want to make any distinctions. That's the rules we agreed on. If Mr. Van Hattem likes rules, this is also a rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u105	Mr. Van Hattem, your fourth and final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u106	Finally, Mr President. Then I have to conclude that Forum makes a choice here. They choose to give the Somali community the opportunity to return to the Netherlands with a Dutch passport and to allow dual nationality and dual jurisdiction. That's the choice of Forum. Well, we've got that clear now. The PVV doesn't choose that. We simply opt very clearly for one nationality and one starting point, not to continue to hop up and down between two different countries. And then there's something else important. You're talking about all the Dutch sitting there. But all the Dutch who sit there can also just choose. If they live in Britain, they become British if the British government wants to give them the opportunity to do so. That is simply a clear starting point. We choose one nationality: if you are Dutch, you are Dutch. That's clear and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u107	I hear Mr Van Hattem saying repeatedly here: the PVV chooses it. Well, it's a coincidence that I'm not here on behalf of the PVV, so we're making another choice. We believe that the importance of a flexible Brexit..... is also a good example for the Netherlands, should we ever face that demand............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We are simply making a different choice here, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u108	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u109	I will continue my speech. This is a bit in line with this interruption: it is a good signal to the Dutch people and to other countries that a solution can always be found for some complications that occur when leaving the EU and that it is also perfectly possible to leave the EU. The EU, as well as many Dutch leaders and representatives of the people, will try to portray the Brexit as a complete mess and a barrel of uncertainties, as a threat to stability and to citizens. In our view, a law like this actually proves that the EU is not needed to deal with such matters. Countries can do this very well themselves, for which we also thank the initiators. Even a certain degree of customization seems to be possible. Mr. Chairman. The Forum for Democracy is very much in favour of allowing Brexit to run smoothly for the Dutch British. Many of the questions I had mentioned in this speech have already been put to me by the speakers. I will not repeat this shortcoming, but I will listen very carefully to the answers and include them in the voting opinion to our group. I am also interested, on behalf of our group, in the reaction of the initiators to the opinion of the Council of State on the initiative law. That's a bit of a pain for us, so I'll listen to it with interest and an open mind. Mr President, so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Finally, Mr Kox has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u111	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, my congratulations to Eric van der Burg and his beautiful maiden speech. Nothing wrong with real liberals here in this Chamber! There should be more, I'll say. May I begin by congratulating the initiators for having been able to make their wish for a legislative proposal and for having come here today to defend that proposal on behalf of the House of Representatives in our Chamber, hoping that it will then be in the Official Journal? We in the First Chamber seem to be the last horde now that the Secretary of State, who is of course very dear to me as former President of the Senate and which I shall always see as such, has already said on the other side that she will not remember this bill if this Chamber would also say yes to this bill, even though the government does not really see the proposal as well. It is good to know and it is good to hear that the Secretary of State does not consider it appropriate from a democratic point of view to remain obstructive if the representative of the People's Party has voted in favour of a legislative proposal. In a parliamentary democracy, the will of a parliament should ultimately prevail. I have stressed this recently on other issues. Mr. Chairman. Following these compliments, may I say that I am particularly dear to the initiative proposals because they give concrete form to the constitutional right of initiative that the House of Representatives has? For this reason alone, an initiative proposal in this Chamber deserves to be treated with all due respect. That is what is happening today in this important debate. Mr. Chairman. After these compliments, may I say that the bill is not premature but special? After all, if everything goes as it should, the law will never enter into force. The United Kingdom has actually left the European Union on 31 January this year, but only if there is no exit scheme between the United Kingdom and the European Union will the law enter into force. If this law does not come into force, no one will regret it, I think. This would prevent the divorce between the United Kingdom and the European Union from leading to a divorce in order to use the good words of my party mate in the House of Representatives Renske Leijten once again. If the law does not come into force, we are pleased, the initiators are happy, the Secretary of State is happy and above all the 100 000 Dutch citizens who live in the United Kingdom are happy. Can I also say in all honesty that the legislative proposal before us is unfortunately not the most beautiful one for mothers? The House of Representatives was already aware of this when it declared itself in favour of Renske Leijten's motion underlining that this proposal should not have any precedent; something that had already been said by the Council of State. This bill infringes the principle of equality, as the Secretary of State emphasized to the House of Representatives and as the Council of State also recalls. In concrete terms, anyone who takes up citizenship of another country loses his or her Dutch nationality. That's what the Rijkswet on Dutch citizenship says. This bill says that that rule does not apply to a limited group of Dutch people who are still in the United Kingdom. The fact that the bill is conflicting with the state law is clear. The initiators also confirm this, but they say that, unfortunately, they did not see any other means available to combat effectively the injustice that threatens for the 100 000 Dutch people living in the United Kingdom. This injustice is that, should the United Kingdom leave the European Union without a retirement scheme, the British Dutch will be forced to accept a restriction on their current rights or to apply for British citizenship, thereby losing other rights. According to the Secretary of State, this is not the case and the rights of British Dutch remain guaranteed in such a case by the pre-setled or settled status which the British Government will grant them. It would be nice to have a brief explanation from both sides of this difference in appreciation. I would like to hear from the proposers why the status offered is insufficient and I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why other countries have made similar legislation with the initiative proposal if everything had already been regulated by the British. I'm curious. Mr. Chairman. The initiators prefer, taking into account all aspects, an ugly legal regime that runs counter to the principle of equality over an ugly reality, namely limiting the rights of Dutch citizens. The path the initiators choose seems to be based on Jan de Koning's life lesson "if it can't be done as it should, then it has to be done as it can." There is something to be said for this, especially now that precedent has been cut off through the Leijten motion. That was necessary, because everyone can say with certainty that the United Kingdom is the first country to leave the European Union, but no one can guarantee that it is also the last country to do so. In the present circumstances, nothing seems certain about this point anymore. Some Member States have recently threatened to leave, while others may be threatening themselves with expulsion by breaking down fundamental human rights. Should another country leave the Union, the Dutch will undoubtedly suffer, but they will not be able to claim similar legal protection with a simple reference to this initiative proposal. That's good, but it doesn't sound good. It is precisely the reason why everyone feels that this proposal is abrasion and also a good reason to think again at another time about the desirability and unwelcomeness of dual nationalities and about the positive and negative aspects of none, one or more nationalities. That is an interesting debate, but we do not want to have that debate at another time. Mr. Chairman. Now, the initiators think, it is better to have a new law scraped than to have the rights of threatened British Dutchmen torn apart by the operation of another existing law. My fellow party members across the street finally followed the initiators in that. Here we all always make our own assessment, of course bearing in mind what our related groups have said on the other side. But first, as always, we await the answers of the initiators and the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend until 1:30 p.m. for lunch.
