ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. I would like to welcome the initiators in Box K; that is very nice to see. They are supported by Mr Ton Langenhuijzen, policy officer at the PvdA Group, Mr Matthijs Hazenkamp, policy officer at the VVD Group, and Mr Simon Fritschij, policy officer at the Christian Union. Welcome, too. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection. He will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation of this debate is planned, as usual, in consultation with the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	I shall now be the first to give the floor to Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very nice to be here in the new year and to see you and my colleagues fresh and fruity again. I am also pleased that we can kick off the new year with the treatment of a very important law. I would therefore like to thank the authors very much for their hard work and for the opportunity to talk about this bill here. So thank you very much from the VVD group. Mr. Chairman. This is a very important bill, because the ever-growing criminal motorcycle gangs stimulate and facilitate serious crime. This poses an acute danger to our security and our society. For now, these gangs can only be banned by the courts. That process is taking a long time. As police chief Pim Miltenburg, then in charge of handling motorcycle gangs, said at the end of 2018, hurry up with the bill that allows the minister to ban criminal motorcycle gangs immediately. The chief of police said the street is asking for action. That is why I am grateful to the initiators that they have taken this action and that we can and can stand here thanks to them. Mr. Chairman. In preparing this treatment, I had to remember the words of our former colleague Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert. She said in 2011: "Someone has to say it out loud. The Hells Angels are a bunch of criminals. They deal with violence, intimidation, extortion, arms and drug trafficking, murder and manslaughter. Everyone knows that and yet they are allowed to behave in the Netherlands as if they are a cozy club motorcycle enthusiasts. That's indigestible." I know that there are colleagues here who said and shared that at the time. That is also the importance of why we are standing here. I have considered telling you again in detail why I think criminal motorcycle gangs should be banned, but I assume that we all agree on this and that we also know very well what they are prepared to do. I think we can quickly agree on that. They are linked to murders, money laundering, brute reckonings and attacks on our own free press. These clubs play an important role in the undermining crime and should be addressed by all means in terms of the VVD. With this bill, we expand our instruments and give undermining organisations less space. The judicial process is often too long now. This often makes criminals the laughing third parties, and that must be over. With this legislative proposal from the initiators, we can prohibit these types of organisations more quickly and take concrete steps in keeping the Netherlands safe. Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions for the initiators. I would like to know from them how the bill stands with regard to the ban that judges can now impose. On what grounds, for example, is it determined when a judge takes action or the minister? As VVD we would like to see both mandates in addition to each other, in my view that is exactly the approach of the initiators, but we would like to have a little more clarification on their grounds and how that is then determined, whether it can cross or sometimes get in the way of each other, and how that has been taken into account. In addition, we now often see that forbidden clubs continue under a different flag, under a different name or in a different way. The initiators also pay attention to this. The VVD wants to prevent that, with them. That is why I would like to know whether, with this extension of the law, for example, we can also deal effectively with dismembered clubs. As a result, I would like to know from the initiators whether Members can simply continue their criminal activities while, for example, proceeding with the Supreme Court. How do the initiators see that and what else could we do to prevent that? Mr. Chairman. The initiators also propose to increase penalties and fines. Given the seriousness of the facts, I think this is a sensible choice. I would like them to provide a basis for the choices they make. For example, it goes from one year to two years and the fines are increased. How do they come to this punishment and this exaltation? What justification do they have for this? Mr President, I note that I am keeping it much shorter than I mentioned on the list of speakers, but that is because, as far as I am concerned, it is a very clear and much-needed legislative proposal. I have one last question. I would like the initiators to look into the role of local authority and mayors. They will also discuss this in their proposal and in their response. For example, the Minister may consider a ban on recommendations or on the advice of the mayors. I would like some more information on that. How do they see that? What role can mayors play here? How can we shape this transparently so that local authority also knows exactly where to ring the bell and what steps it will take? I think I'm done with that. Once again, many thanks to the initiators. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Mr Van Nispen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	The issue is indeed not what we think of criminal motorcycle gangs today. Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius rightly said that. We reject all of this, and I believe that everyone supports the fact that these clubs can be banned in extreme circumstances. The question is, in my view, what is the best way forward? Is a prohibition by the judge the best way or a ministerial legal person ban, as proposed today? The argument that the proposers are using, and that the VVD is now using, is that it all takes so long through the court. Has the VVD also considered coming up with proposals to speed up that road? What creativity did that bring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	If I am right, the cabinet is also working on this, namely to see how the civil road can be used more efficiently. We are always in favour of this. I think there is a good proposal here to move faster through this side, through the Minister. I don't think it's mutually exclusive. I think it could be and-and. I believe that the proposals to make it more efficient through the courts are also going to come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	It's quite a fundamental question whether you're going to have an association banned by the minister. That's what's going on here. There are differences of opinion on this and I shall, of course, comment on it myself. I have another question. The existence of associations in which there is an incredible amount of crime with a culture of lawlessness is absolutely wrong. In extreme circumstances, such associations may be prohibited. That is what my group supports. But isn't it much more important to tackle the individuals who commit the crimes? The offences are in themselves committed not by the association, but by individuals and the executives behind them. I do not want to suggest that this should be done more effectively, not only today, because we are discussing this bill now, but also in recent years from the group of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	I think that the SP and the VVD do not differ at all and that you should also tackle those individuals hard. We have some ideas about that, too. If the SP has any ideas about that, I would very much like to see how we can shape that even better. This is indeed about banning an organization, a criminal motorcycle gang. I do not think that we are very different about the fact that you should be able to deal with individuals properly. Of course, Mr Van Nispen is right that this is ultimately a matter of principle. Maybe we're in something else; that might be possible. But I like to hang out with the SP to make sure that those individuals can be tackled even more firmly; absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	I actually want to continue on Mr Van Nispen's first point, namely the alternative path. Indeed, we all agree that these criminal motorcycle gangs need to be dealt with. But one of the problems that has taken so long is that participation in a club is only punishable once the ban has become irrevocable. The College of Attorneys General has sometimes argued for time to be saved by deleting the word "unrecallable" from Article 140 of the Criminal Code. How's the VVD in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	I believe that this is indeed the same subject, but a slightly different debate. I don't see the consequences of that right now. I know the Cabinet is also looking at how to do that even more efficiently. I don't think both routes are mutually exclusive. I do not have the fundamental consideration that I think it should only be possible by civil means and that the Minister should not comment on this. I think both pathways can reinforce each other. We must do what is necessary to ensure that the bikers can be banned as soon as possible, so that the criminals do not laugh at us while we are engaged in a long journey. I'm open to every road open to that, too. I think we are going to have that debate. It is very easy to say here that we can delete a word and that it is resolved. No law is that simple. No change in the law is that simple, because it has consequences. As soon as that happens, I would very much like to talk about it with my colleague from GroenLinks, but that is not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	That is now ahead, because the question is what is the best way to tackle criminal motorcycle gangs. One of the biggest problems is that it takes a very long time before it is punishable. That has always been said by the proposers, and rightly so. Meanwhile, the gangs continue their criminal activities, virtually unhindered. That concerns us all. The solution that has now been chosen is to have an administrative route alongside this path. You can also tackle this through criminal law and say: it must be faster in a way as proposed by the College of Attorneys General. Then the VVD can't say that that path isn't ahead. It is now a question of weighing up what is the best path. I want some more coloring from the VVD or that is not a better path to take that road faster. If that doesn't work now, maybe we can do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u12	There's a concrete bill in front of it. The moment we decide that it is a good legislative proposal, it can enter into force very quickly. So that means you can quickly ban it. And that means that you can maintain faster. That is why I say: that is what is now in store. If we want to save time with each other, I think it makes sense to talk about the bill that is now before us. That is what this is about, and if we support it, as in my case, it can enter into force quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u13	On this point, Mr President, because I do not quite understand Mrs Yeşilgöz either. If I understand correctly, it is a thorn in the eyes of the initiators that you can only deal with a criminal offence when the civil law ban is irrevocable. That could take a long time. I understand. The initiators introduce an administrative route. I understand that the idea is that the moment the Minister says "forbidden" you are immediately punishable by Article 140. Then you would think that in 140 it would be quite logical to delete the word 'unremitting' at all, as Mrs Buitenweg says. Because then you solve the same problem in one go. It is a bit strange that the VVD then says that this is a completely different proposal, because I think the initiators are actually doing this, but by introducing a very separate procedure. Can Mrs Yeşilgöz comment on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u14	I support that separate procedure. At the moment when the proposal to delete 'unrecallable' is before us, which may be a D66 proposal which is before us very quickly, then we shall look at it as far as I am concerned. It doesn't sound illogical, but I want to see the consequences of that. Now a proposal has been prepared to ensure that the Minister can impose a ban, and I support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u15	That's good. Maybe we can find each other in this. What exactly does the VVD see as added value if we can solve an important stone of offense in the proposal of the initiators in a different way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u16	Again, these are not pathways that are mutually exclusive. That's what the initiators write. These are trajectories that can exist side by side. They can reinforce each other. Of course, the bill also has several elements in it. It is also about allocating individual behavior to an organisation. I have also just asked questions about the increase in penalties and the increase in fines. As far as I'm concerned, it's a complete bill aimed at speeding up the fight against criminals. I think there's been a thorough consideration. If the D66 colleague says that he himself has ideas on how to do this even faster and better, I am happy to see his proposal here. You'll hear from me that I'm in favour if that means we're gonna catch bad guys faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u17	Thank you, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I would like to congratulate the initiators on their commitment to banning outlaw motorcycle gangs or OMGs. I very much appreciate the commitment of the initiators, because I do not know from a lot but a little bit of my own experience how incredibly much time and energy is going to be in such an initiative proposal. In this respect, I would just like to pay tribute and praise to the initiators. Mr. Chairman. The aim of this initiative law is to speed up the prohibition of criminal motorcycle gangs, and D66 fully agrees with that objective. D66 believes that the rule of law should be able to act as effectively as possible against organisations with a culture of lawlessness, as described in the legislative proposal. However much I support the intentions of the initiators and the purpose of the law, I do have a lot of questions about the chosen path introduced in this proposal. These questions relate first of all to the administrative route and the legal protection appropriate to it, and secondly to the effective effectiveness and time savings of the proposal. Mr. Chairman. The right to association is a fundamental right and the right to association must therefore be restricted, but it must, of course, be possible, where appropriate, to prohibit an organisation. I think we agree that criminal motorcycle gangs are good examples of cases where that should be possible. In the current system, the power to prohibit organisations lies primarily with the courts. Given the impact of the decision, the weightiness of the law that lies beneath it, I think that is also a logical choice. The initiators shift the power to ban an organisation to the minister, a political office, someone who often has to deal with the political delusion of the day, someone who is under daily political pressure. Although the initiators focus mainly on criminal motorcycle gangs, it is certainly not excluded that other organisations may also be targeted by the minister. After all, this is explicitly stated in the legislative proposal. The fundamental question for the D66 Group is therefore whether it is desirable for a political office holder to have such far-reaching powers without prior judicial approval. I would like a further explanation from the initiators on this point. Mr. Chairman. Of course, the initiators propose an administrative course to the judge. They are also aware of the importance of legal protection. Their proposal is certainly not unbiased. But can they comment on the review framework that is being set up? The administrative judge usually looks differently at cases than the civil judge or the criminal court. Or do the initiators aim to ensure that the administrative judge is going to test in exactly the same way as the 2:20 judge I'll just call it that for a moment, President-in-Office-in-Office? Is the administrative judge actually gonna do that? I would also like an explanation from the initiators on this point. Mr. Chairman. The initiators have explicitly excluded political parties from the regime, and I understand that, but if I see it correctly, that means that the minister should ultimately decide what a political party is under this law and what it is not. Can the initiators, as well as the minister, explain what criteria you should lay down in determining that choice? What is a political party and what is not? That is, of course, a choice with considerable consequences. Mr. Chairman. I am confident that the incumbent Minister for Legal Protection could carry out such a test properly, but if we are faced with a completely different Minister for Legal Protection in the future, there may not be such confidence. I think we should also look at the future stability of legislation. Unfortunately, a number of developments in Eastern Europe in particular show that these are not theoretical questions. Do the initiators, with me, see the danger of politically-colored ministers having to express their views on a particular organization? I would also like an explanation on this point. Mr. Chairman. As far as I am concerned, the fundamental questions raised by this bill must be countered by the expected effectiveness of that bill. So far, only one procedure under Article 20 of the Second Book of the BW has been stranded against a criminal motorcycle gang. That was the case of the Hells Angels about ten years ago. Since then, the D.A. has successfully banned a criminal motorcycle gang from court three times, namely Satudarah, the Bandidos and Catervarius. Isn't it a bit wild to introduce a proper system change after a lost cause and three successful cases, albeit not yet completed? Isn't it better to wait for the Supreme Court, when the state's attorney's office is beginning to succeed with the existing procedure before we really start something completely new? I'd like a response from the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u19	I hear Mr Groothuizen screaming a number of things that are at the heart of this bill. Do you wait until you have 6 meters of file and then go to court, while the whole of the Netherlands already sees that a certain motorcycle club actually has the power? We know all that footage of a funeral with streets full of guys on motorcycles that actually take power. That is the path that is now being followed. Or are we going to go for a more energetic way, which radiates that the government is the boss and not a bunch of males with an inferiority complex who couldn't get a motorcycle license? That is the question that I think is being asked. In this context, I would ask Mr Grothuizen what he is going for in the consideration of things. Are you going for an effective law or are you going, very commendable, especially for that long-term path of the rule of law in this file?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u20	I'm going for both. It must be an effective law in which legal protection is also guaranteed. Mr Van Dam started his question with 6 metres of file, but quite rightly the initiators themselves say in the written answer that this 6 metres file is now needed and will soon be needed. I understand the time savings in this way the initiators are in court, expecting the administrative road to be faster than the civil road. I have a number of questions on this. Only if you can prove that this is true and that legal protection is in order can you say that this is a legislative proposal that we support. I share the goal with Mr Van Dam: we must try to get rid of these clubs, which have a very bad influence, but in a good way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u21	However, another procedure is being put in place, because the initiative to act adequately and quickly becomes much more public, with, of course, the possibility for those concerned to go to court. But they'll have to set it up. Now it's time to jump through 16 hoops and wait until there's an irrevocable judge's verdict. It's just like in traffic enforcement where we introduced Mulder to do something more appropriate. That's the equation I see here. Then I think to myself: what does D66 want in this context, in the context of an adequate fight against these kinds of bad clubs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u22	If I go into this further in my speech and make a number of suggestions on how the current procedure could be improved, I do justice to Mr Van Dam's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u23	An offer I can't refuse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u24	Proceed, Mr. Grotehuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u25	Mr. Chairman. Because, in fact, I am seamlessly following up on this with the initiators who think that the current civil procedure takes too long to ban motorcycle gangs. And I understand that. Civilian dissolution of a motorcycle gang is already valid after a declaration of enforceability in the court's stock order, but it may take years until the whole procedure has been completed to the Supreme Court and an organisation has actually been irrevocably prohibited. This also has an impact on the criminal law approach. We were just discussing it in an interrupting debate. Article 140 (2) of the Code of Criminal Law states that continued participation in an organisation is only punishable if that prohibition is actually irrevocable. I understand from the written procedure that it is precisely that the initiators are a thorn in the eye. My question, in addition to that of Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Buitenweg, is why the initiators did not choose to delete the word 'unremitting' from the existing Article 140, second paragraph of the Criminal Code. And, also in response to Mr Van Dam, I think there is a lot of profit to be made in reducing the lead times in the current civil proceedings. Why do not the initiators simply shorten the time limits in the current procedure, as has also been advised by the Dutch Order of Lawyers and the Dutch Royal Notarial Brotherhood? Please respond to this point of the initiators. These questions are all the more pressing because you can question the time savings of the administrative process. I think it is right to say that this is a saving of time, but Mr van Dam does not seem to think otherwise at the preliminary stage, because the dossier must always be in order, whether you are going through the civil or administrative process. However, the initiators expect the court proceedings to be shorter than they are now. After all, an administrative ban has a direct effect and is not suspended by objection and appeal, so they reason. But is there really any time savings if, for example, the judge destroys the decision or the court of appeal suspends the decision? The initiators write that they do not expect that to happen very often, but I am honestly not clear on what exactly that expectation is based on. I would like an explanation from the initiators on this point. Can they therefore comment on the possibility that, as the Public Prosecutor's Office will use the current procedure more often, there will be more case law, which may speed up the course of justice, because there is more clarity as to what is needed for it? On the other hand, I also see the risk that if you introduce a whole new procedure, there will be a whole new line of case law that may not even be entirely consistent with that of the current civil court. I would also like an explanation from the initiators on this point. Mr. Chairman. My group likes to think along, because we support the aim of the initiators. That's why I'm giving the initiators the following. Suppose you would delete the word "unremitting" from the current Article 140, second paragraph, as several Members have indicated. In addition, in the procedure laid down in Article 220, in the oral procedure for requiring an application to be made within four weeks, you could shorten the time limit for appeal from three months to four weeks. As a result, you would eventually also have a shorter cassation period. Can the initiators indicate which route will be faster and which procedure will produce the quickest result, even if we take into account the possibility for the administrative judge to suspend a decision? Here too, I would like to receive a response from the initiators. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a number of separate questions, first of all about the accountability of the conduct to the legal person. The state's attorney's office indicates that the bar is being set quite high, actually higher than the judge is doing right now. It is not entirely clear to me whether the initiators who criticized the prosecution have incorporated them in their bill and, if so, how. Maybe they can explain that to me. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the relationship of the administrative ban to the current procedures. Can the initiators indicate in what case exactly they consider that the administrative and in what case the current civil procedure should be followed and who exactly can take the initiative to do so? Finally, Mr President. The Public Prosecutor's Office points to problems in the coordination of criminal proceedings with administrative law. As I understand it, it's rather clumsy when there's a file with parties on the administrative route while the D.A. is investigating members of a club. How do the initiators intend to deal with this tension? Do they have any feelings for the D.A.'s suggestion to include anything about that in their bill? I would like to receive an explanation from the initiators and also an explanation from the Minister, who will have to do something with it. How does the Minister intend to prevent any complications between criminal law and administrative law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u26	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u27	Thank you. First of all, a big compliment to this team of MPs and staff for this initiative. It is indeed a lot of work and that is quite an achievement. It is also really an important issue, namely tackling undermining organisations, for example criminal motorcycle gangs. Indeed, there is no difference of opinion as to its importance. But let me ask you a first question about the scope. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators refer exclusively to criminal motorcycle gangs, the outlaw motorcycle gangs, the OMGs, but the bill is about every legal entity that meets the criteria. So that potential goes a long way, while there is a problem in dealing with criminal motorcycle gangs. My first question is whether that is not problematic. Tackling crime or the culture of lawlessness that sometimes prevails in clubs of this kind is bad for trust in justice and politics; let me be very clear about this right away. But freedom of association is also a great asset laid down in the Constitution and in the ECHR. It is a tough power to ban associations, and I do not think we have a different opinion on this either. In my opinion, that jurisdiction is better suited to the courts, which must determine whether an organisation uses a culture of lawlessness to such an extent that a ban on the organisation is justified, rather than a minister. The Minister is by definition a political figure with a certain ideology, which can be put under certain political pressure. This is referred to by the Dutch Order of Lawyers and the Royal Notarial Professional Organization. The question is therefore certainly justified as to whether you really want to place such a competence with the Minister. I think that the authors of the legislative proposal have dealt with this easily, because it is quite a question of principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u28	I would like to ask another question on this point, which comes back regularly. I simply do not understand it, because we lay down all kinds of powers with directors. For example, the mayor may decide whether or not demonstrations continue in a particular place or continue at all. You might as well have this discussion. I don't want to give the whole sample map of examples, but this is actually... ? What is so special about this issue, which is clearly about wrong clubs, that the government cannot simply take more order measures? It's not about clubs like political parties that have long been excluded, is it? I just don't get it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u29	I think Mr Van Dam understands very well. Mr Van Dam understands these things very well. He is doing what he just did with Mr Groothuizen, which is far too simplistic. "If you're against motorcycle gangs, you have to support this proposal." That's a little under here. That is why, in the rest of my speech, I am trying to make it clear that there is no difference in opinion as to the plight of those criminal motorcycle gangs. That was also in Mr Grothuizen's speech. We're making all kinds of suggestions to deal with these people. And I think it's starting with the fact that you're going to deal with the person who's committing the crimes more effectively than is currently the case. This means, among other things, investing in police and justice. In the end, a ban can also be justified. Then we will indeed opt for a ban through the courts. And that must be faster and more effective than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u30	However, this is a wrong interpretation of my question. This is really a serious question from me. I do not understand why it is so difficult on this subject that a political person, i.e. someone who is politically controlled, would be given the power to be in charge of the courts after that, while there are a lot of other subjects where we do lay down powers with directors who can also be seen as political figures. That is a serious question for me. I cannot deny that I sometimes ask questions here that I had already thought of the answer in advance. That's not strange to you either, colleague. In this case, it is a serious question of mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u31	In fact, I believe that banning associations is a major competence. Secondly, the question is what exactly solves the problem of banning associations. I think you should focus on the criminal behavior of individuals and executives. The ban on an association is, for me, a serious procedure, which I think belongs more to the court. Order measures, such as banning club colours or hoes in the city, can already be issued by a mayor. And a ban on demonstrations is indeed typically a public order issue. I think it's inevitable that you leave it to the board. Banning a total association by a political passerby, in the end, so someone with a certain ideology, someone who, for example, can stand here weekly in Question Time, explain why he has still not banned a certain association where we all see that such terrible things are happening, does not seem to me to be the sensible way. I say again that I think you should be able to ban criminal motorcycle gangs, criminal gangs. That can, much better than it is now, however, be done by the court. I will come back to this in detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u32	That's good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u33	This desire on the part of the applicants to opt for a ministerial legal person ban stems mainly from practical problems such as the long duration of legal proceedings. That's how I interpreted it. My sincere question is whether all this cannot be resolved or improved in the current law. I do not think that practical problems such as this long-term are a convincing argument for a major intervention in the division of power between the Minister and the judge. The main advantage of an administrative ban is its immediate effect, as I understand from the answer. It would be easier to take action against the OMGs. But now there's a lot that can be done, isn't there? Surely it is true that the mayor already has the opportunity to act, even if a ban is not yet irrevocable? For example, a mayor can address the wearing of certain club clothes in public on the basis of the APV. Challenging behaviour giving rise to disturbances is a criminal offence. Is it true that a civil ban may be used as a motivation to refuse a new licence application, even if that is not yet irrevocable? Those are measures that allow you to put a motorcycle club on quite a tight leash. How do the initiators see that? The initiators point out that signals of a club's continuation may be extortion and intimidation of other clubs, for example. That kind of behaviour is, of course, already punishable. In other words, I do not think that a possible administrative ban on itself is going to change that much. Another argument of the initiators for this law is that it should be made easier to attribute behavior to an organisation. That would now be too difficult on the civil law road. Don't get me wrong: I also see that if the prosecution asks the judge for a civil ban, the defence of such a club is always that there may be some rotten apples in between, but that could not be charged to the club as a whole. Then you could say that it would be a good idea to introduce an administrative ban, which would be easier. But in the cases against Bandidos and Catervarius it turned out that the prosecution can already prove that a club glorifies violence. In other words, it is already working more and more. The Dutch order of lawyers indicates that the current criterion in the law gives a lot of room to the judiciary, to the judge, to assume whether an act can also be charged to a legal person on the basis of case law. This undermines the need to better regulate this by means of an administrative ban. I'd like a response. Is it better? Is the criterion proposed by this initiative law not to set the standard for the allocation of conduct to legal persons more precisely than is currently the case with the current state of case law in the case of a civil ban? I don't think that's the idea. I'd like a clarification of the initiators. Then the argument of time savings. The initiators want an administrative ban because it makes it easier and faster to ban a club. I wonder if that happens as carefully as it is now with the judge. I have my doubts about that. The initiators indicate that they expect time savings in an administrative procedure not to be related to file-building, but that time savings are expected after the file-building phase, i.e. the assessment of the file and the functioning of the decision. Those are two very important phases. As far as direct action is concerned, you may indeed ask whether it is legally desirable and also adds something substantial to the current situation, but that is so far. I find this stage of assessment more worrying, because how can we trust that the Minister will take his decision as carefully as a judge? This is certainly true when the initiators in response to questions from the SP say: "Possibly introducing the administrative ban on the prosecution leads to less work now that part of that workload is shifting to the Ministry of Justice and Security." This raises the question as to whether, in future, officials will do the work normally done by many years of qualified staff in the public prosecutor's office. How does that not damage quality and care? I would like a very clear explanation from the initiators on this point, especially since the Public Prosecutor's Office explicitly states something other than the initiators, namely that the workload of the Public Prosecutor's Office is going to increase due to the problems of alignment and the possible increase in the number of cases. I'd like a response. The initiators also point out that the lead times in administrative law are clearly shorter than in civil law. I do not think that is so clear from the information provided by the initiators. Would it not be appropriate to encourage a reduction in the lead time in civil law? Why are there no proposals at this point? There are certainly suggestions that lead to shorter lead times without the introduction of a ministerial legal person ban. In cases in which the Public Prosecutor's Office instituted an appeal, it normally used that full three-month period of appeal. Wouldn't it be good to have a look at that? Can't we go any faster? If the D.A. itself appeals, it could take less time to draw up that extremely simple appeal subpoena and/or directly formulate grievances or pleas in a profession rather than pleading grievances or a cassation letter lodged in a week or months after the first roll-off date. That was one. Two. Isn't it much simpler to link a maximum time limit to the time when an application is opened in accordance with Article 20 of Book 2 of the BW, for example within four weeks of the request being submitted? Three. Isn't it also an idea to use a shorter deadline for appeal? It's the regular three months now. Mr Grothuizen also mentioned it. In view of the importance of public order at stake, shouldn't you shorten this period? Did the initiators also consider this option? I, too, would like to hear from the initiators what they think of the option of deleting the word 'unremitting' in Article 140 (2) of the Criminal Code. Then you could immediately maintain a ban without waiting for an appeal or appeal. I realise that this raises legal questions and comments, but of course the proposal of the initiators also does so. This is in fact the same in this respect, namely direct entry into force. I would like to hear from the initiators whether they have also looked at this option and what they think about it. In short, I believe that there are possibilities of shortening the lead times and perhaps even resolving the problem of that immediate entry without, in my view, changing the system in principle. What about legal protection? Who can object and appeal against a decision to prohibit the association? Because if this decision comes into force immediately, that club will no longer exist. Then who can sue? Is that sufficiently regulated and guaranteed? In addition, we would point out that the Minister himself has also tabled a legislative proposal aimed at improving the prohibition of legal persons through the current procedure. How does the proposal of the initiator relate to the Minister's proposal? Isn't it better and more logical to deal with that proposal first? Can I also have a comprehensive response from the Minister? Then there's a whole other point. The question is also: what is the real problem? In my opinion, the problem is not so much in itself that clubs exist, but that members of those clubs commit serious crimes. Then it is especially important to prosecute those offences, to prosecute those who commit the offences and thus to deal quickly and effectively with those who have committed the offences. According to the initiators, is this already happening enough? Do the police have enough capacity to work on this? How, for example, is it possible that 85% of motorcycle gang members have been convicted of a criminal offence and 28% have been convicted more than ten times? For example, do we do enough to prevent recurrence? Is there enough going on in prisons to keep this group of people on the straight track even after their punishment, to get them on the skin, to get a stick behind the door? In other words, is there sufficient attention for all these matters? I'd like a reflection of the initiators. As a result, I would also like to ask the initiators about the successes of the current approach, which also means banning motor clubs. Because at the beginning of this year we could read something interesting in the news magazines, or actually something disturbing, I have to say: not less, but more motorcycle clubs because of the current approach. Because what do these forbidden clubs often do? They just keep going under a new name. The current approach shreds the OMG landscape. Support clubs, brotherhoods and boxing clubs are coming up fast. They're doing the dirty work for the gangs, keeping them out of the picture. Often these clubs disappear quickly. The question is, then, what have we actually solved, if that is the practice in the meantime? I think that question is justified, so I would like to receive a response. So can we not focus more energy on tackling the criminals themselves, the individuals, preferably the leaders who pull the strings? The one-after-last point, Mr. Chairman. The initiators also propose to increase the maximum penalty for continuing the work of a prohibited organisation from one to two years. Can the initiators clarify why they are doing this? Surely there have been, were we also heard in answers, so far no people have been condemned for such a fact? Then how do the initiators know that judges would not be able to go out with the current penalty limit? What exactly justifies this proposed increase in the penalty ceiling? Finally. I fully appreciate this initiative. It is a search for how criminal motorcycle gangs and other undermining organisations can be tackled as effectively as possible. But I honestly do not feel that the search ended today or that we are about to take a very important step in the right direction. I really understand that a lot of parties want this. I also understand that mayors are asking for this. But I find the argument so far unconvincing. A ban on a legal person is a serious instrument which, in my opinion, belongs more to the independent judge than to a political passer-by, namely the minister. So let us look at how we can better deal with criminal individuals and how we can improve the procedure before the courts to ban organisations if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mrs Helder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, of course, I also appreciate the initiators. I know from my own experience that it is a great deal of work to make an initiative proposal. Today we are talking about the legislative initiative proposed by our colleagues, Van Toorenburg, Van Wijngaarden, Van der Staaij and Van der Graaf. They consider that the current legislation to ban organisations should be supplemented for two reasons. First of all... At present, it takes too long, too long, before a legal person is effectively prohibited and the continuation of the activity is punishable under Article 140 Criminal law. Secondly, the law should lay down rules on the allocation of behaviour by members to such organisations, so that a ban can be more easily imposed. The desirability of speeding up the ban process appears particularly when it is necessary to act against the so-called outlaw motorcycle gangs (OMGs). That is why this legislative proposal focuses on these organisations, but the title is different. The title refers to organisations that create, promote or maintain a culture of lawlessness. Then you're gonna see how that's described. Then you look at the concept of "organisations." These are legal persons, bodies or partnerships. And then you're going to see what's meant by "creating, promoting or maintaining a culture of lawlessness." Then reference is made to Article 3. In fact, all these organisations are prohibited, unless they are excluded in Article 3. But of course you cannot set aside the Constitution in this way, because that is what is actually happening here in part. Our Constitution contains freedom of association and freedom of expression. These are two very important fundamental rights. They may be restricted by law, whatever the initiators do, but in the interest of public order. This is also not specified in the own-initiative proposal. So it's all covered, unless it's excluded in Article 3. As far as I am concerned, you cannot deal with the Constitution in this way. Mr. Chairman. Let there be no misunderstanding: my group shares the desire of the initiators to be able to act as quickly and as hard as possible against undermining organisations. But then you have to see where it goes wrong and where you can make improvements. But then they come up with a ban by the minister, the administrative ban. That goes right in. I'll understand that. But would it help? I don't think so again. The reason is that Article 140 criminal law requires an irrevocable judgment before participation or further participation in a prohibited organisation is punishable for those natural persons. So you cannot deal with it if there is an administrative ban, because this ban is not yet legally sufficient to bring criminal law into force. Or, I do not think it is quite clear yet, it may also be that the initiators mean that Article 11 of their initiative proposal sets that aside, that they say that, if you look at the list, an administrative ban on a ban, an irrevocable judgment, comes from the judge. But a board judge's not the same judge. The latter makes a marginal assessment of whether the administrative body, in this case the Minister, has been able to reach such a decision. However, ministers usually sit there for about four years. Then there is another one, so there is also a very big understanding: where is legal certainty? 'Cause, of course, you have to know a little bit about when something's being attributed to you. That of, as it's described here, the guys with the leather shirt we all understand. That is what my group wants, but my group sees much more in the proposal by the Attorney General's Colleges to take 'unremitting' out of that Article 140 of the Criminal Code, because that article indeed defines the offences that are punishable, namely crimes. They're in the Code of Criminal Law. And what does it take to calculate it? The purpose of committing those crimes. That's tricky, but it's not impossible. Fortunately, that has often proved to be the case. Of course it has to be faster and better, but my group sees much more in more money for police and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and in much more powers. In this context, I would like to ask about the heads of the initiators to the minister where all the promised legislative proposals, which the initiators rightly also often ask for, remain about privacy versus the exchange of information by municipalities and the like in order to stop the undermining and thus these organisations once and for all? Mr President, last but not least. The history of law shows that such a ban has often been used, for the last time in the 1980s, to ban political parties. There is, of course, also the danger for my group, despite the fact that political parties are excluded from the legislative proposal. Successive ministers are still trying today to put my group leader on a political side by means of a criminal trial. An administrative ban that may be issued by a minister would be nothing more or less than political suicide. Mr. Chairman. I can only come to one conclusion: after all, my group will not vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u36	Thank you, Mrs Helder. That was clear, indeed. That's a bit of a lame remark, but okay. I now give the floor to Mrs Buitenweg on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Then you're glad your name isn't Mrs. Mudder or something, because then you get those kind of comments too. There have been so many speakers before me and a lot of things have been said that also come from my heart, but I will repeat a few things. I begin with my sincere appreciation for the initiators and their support, who are behind them, for all the work. My congratulations, among others, for Mrs Kuiken, who has drawn on this for a long time, for organising such a great support in the Chamber, because there are almost as many speakers in the Chamber as here in the Chamber, and that is a great... I was gonna say accomplishment, but how are you supposed to say that in civilized Dutch? Something you've achieved. The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance shares, like everyone else here, the concerns that have led to this legislative proposal so far. I would like to mention the concern that certain organisations, in particular the outlaw motorcycle gangs, are intimidating and disrupting society, and that there is insufficient rapid response to this. It's even in the coalition agreement. That was a part I could follow well: a ban on outlaw motorcycle gangs. But the question is, of course, how can you best arrange it now? That is, of course, what is central here. The main problem that we have heard today, and which is always evident from all the documents, is that the way through the courts is now taking too long according to the initiators and, in fact, everyone here. If a civil court has now ruled that an organisation should be banned, participation in that club will be punishable only if the ban has become irrevocable and you are indeed years away. The choice has therefore been made for an administrative ban that will enter into force equally. Still, that also has a crazy twist, but maybe I don't quite understand it. I read in the papers that the club will not really be dissolved until the ban has become irrevocable. How am I supposed to see it? Thus, an association will continue to exist, and it may also continue to exist, even though it is prohibited. What does that mean in practice? Are there any board members and members? Are they allowed to gather as a collective? It's hard for me to get that right. Many have already said something about it: the College of Attorneys General has called for a different way of achieving time savings, namely by deleting the word "immersionable" in Article 140 (2) of the Code of Criminal Law. Is it true, as I would ask the Minister, that the current road leads much faster to the end? Isn't that preferable? In the meantime, I also saw a number of interesting proposals made by Mr Groothuizen and Mr Van Nispen in order to achieve that time gain in a different way. I would also like to ask on behalf of my colleague Van Nispen of the SP if we can get a letter from the Minister for the continuation of this debate explaining how this alternative method can lead to time savings. My question is whether that would not be preferable either. In the proposers' proposal it is not the judge but the minister who prohibits an association. I, like a number of other colleagues here, am afraid that the political delusion of the day can easily lead to the banning of organisations and that the right of association, an important human right enshrined in our Constitution, is thus less guaranteed. I can already see that we are standing here at Question Time and that we are all calling for a ban on that or that club. Do the initiators consider that desirable? I had seen in the documents that reference was made to Germany and that political parties were excluded from this ban. But in Germany there are many more criteria for what can be a political party at all, which we do not have. So all these equations aren't that easy to pull one-on-one. What's the role of the D.A.'s office now? Does it itself submit certain dossiers to the Minister, or is that the competence of a special department in the Ministry? When is the preferred route? The VVD had also asked if it would not get in the way of each other. I like to get a little more coloring about how that works. I would also like to understand what control there is to prevent the Minister from making an improper violation of the right of association. After all, the administrative judge checks out, but also, above all, marginally. Is it true, then, that the investigation of the facts is not being reviewed by a judge? And do we think that is desirable with each other? Finally, the criteria. We all want to ban illegal criminal motorcycle gangs. That is clear, there is broad support for it, because that is what we are all concerned about. But this proposal goes beyond that. I'd like to know where those boundaries are. Then I join the colleague of the PVV. Let me give you a concrete example of where these limits really lie. Suppose a football club is constantly making racist, discriminatory remarks that are punishable, and perhaps also behaviours that are punishable. What if a club deliberately gives space to that? This is an organisation in which there is a culture of lawlessness in this area and where illegal practices have taken place in an organised context. In what way can this club expect or not to expect an administrative ban? I think that it is really clear that, on the basis of examples, we are becoming concrete what the proposal is now, because these actions are therefore part of the legal history. In short, my group supports the aim of the initiators, but has serious doubts about the means used. We are not convinced yet, but I await the answer of all our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u38	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u39	Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, congratulate the authors of the bill and their expert support. It is a tough proposal, but it is also a far-reaching proposal on tackling a major problem: undermining the top shelf by organized gangs, often in motorcycle clubs. Legally, we're doing something pretty exciting today. But when I read this proposal, I think back to the missile fire at Panorama's headquarters, to mayors threatened with death, to Ridoun T., who ordered murder orders from a motorcycle club as if they were pizzas. They seem to be involved in every major undermining case. Satudarah, Bandidos, No Surrender, Hells Angels, Caloh Wagoh, all organizations associated with drugs, violence, liquidations, extortion and so on. Behind these organizations are people, people who think themselves above the law. The 1% who are opposed to the 99% of the citizens who do comply with the law. With these outlaw motorways we're going to lower the bar just a little bit to get a ban. My group believes that this is justified, also in support of administrators, prosecutors and enforcers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u40	The colleague of the Christian Union says: 1% of the people who do not comply with the law which affects 99% of the people or the organisations I do not know exactly which term he uses. But this bill does a lot more than that. That doesn't just take the 1%. I do not even need to quote Mr Buitenweg's example: several colleagues have said that they are organisations that create, promote or maintain a culture of lawlessness. You're just gonna be that football club that can't get those few idiots out of the bleachers, and that's gonna get your club banned right away. I think this bill will make that possible. Would you mind going into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u41	I think that football clubs in the Netherlands are still organisations that do not advocate, facilitate or promote a culture of lawlessness. In fact, the football clubs I see abhor what a little club of lunatics does in the stadiums or just out there. So I don't see these clubs coming under the scope of this law very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u42	Then we see the difference of opinion and therefore the danger. You don't see it as a politician, but more than one of my colleagues will see it. You'd just be a minister and soon be followed by a minister who feels very differently. Then where is the legal certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u43	The text of this legislative initiative contains in the key article the word "needed": if it is necessary to maintain public order. That word is very important in the legal text, because it already indicates that these are very exceptional cases and that this should be followed only in those very exceptional cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u44	And those who judge whether this is necessary are not the life-appointed judge that my group does have problems with, but that is not now under discussion here, but the Minister. The Minister is going to test those terms. That is where the danger lies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u45	In the end, the judge will review this proposal for an initiative. If this comes to a law, then in the Netherlands the judge always has the final say. It is about the suspensive effect or not: may you or may you not continue with your activities in the meantime? There this bill is clearly a support in the back of drivers, prosecutors and enforcers, who deserve our deepest support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u47	Mr. Chairman. No gangs like this are unfamiliar. We see that in recent years the judge has succeeded in eventually banning these organizations. That's important. But we also see that this is far from perfect and it takes a long time. This proposal must be put to an end. It is a faster route to a ban, and has a direct effect. The Christian Union realizes that this is a restriction on constitutional freedom of association. Mr President, you know that the Christian Union cherishes the Constitution and its freedoms. However, we believe that this restriction, as proposed in the legislative proposal, is justified. In our view, as opposed to Mrs Helder, we are talking about a limited group. This limited group is at the heart of the undermining crime that is causing society great harm. We therefore consider it justified to lower the bar to ban these groups. It is also only defendable for the Christian Union, and I say this in the direction of Mrs Helder, because there is an exception for groups that are united as church societies, trade unions or political organisations. That's important to us. This includes other constitutional freedoms, such as freedom of expression, which is so dear to us all, but also freedom of religion when it comes to religious societies. At present, Article 2.1 (3) of the WFD also excludes legal persons established by public law. This concerns, for example, the State and municipalities. These do not fall within the scope of Article 2.20 of the Civil Code. There is no such provision in the legislative proposal that we are debating today. I ask the authors whether it would not be advisable to include this in the legislative proposal. With this rightful exception in mind, the Christian Union can also see that such a power lies with the Minister. At the same time, the Council of State has indeed expressed concern about this, for example because of the tension caused by an excessively open criterion in their view for what may be understood as public order, and Article 8 of the Constitution, which says that freedom of association can only be restricted by law. Can the proposers indicate how they are trying to deal with these concerns and Mrs Helder's concerns? I ask the Minister what he thinks of this power being given to him. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State has asked questions about the relationship between the prohibition criterion "culture of lawlessness" and the constitutional restriction system. The words seem difficult to objectify and may not provide the Minister with adequate guidance in the exercise of his powers. The Council of State proposes to opt for a limitation of the criterion to the systematic commission of offences "which constitute a real and serious violation of the fundamental principles of our legal order and which, as a result, disrupt or may disrupt our society or parts of it." On the one hand, the criterion proposed by the Council of State is more general and broader, but on the other hand it seems to be sufficiently defined for a limited scope. Could the initiators reconsider this? In fact, the democratically elected legislator, rather than the minister, would largely determine the implementation of the criterion. That is another important matter from a legal point of view. Mr. Chairman. The consultation shows that mayors too would like to have the power to proceed with a ban. But that is not what the proposers choose, because of the national scope of a ban and the importance attached to uniformity. The Christian Union considers this a sensible choice. At the same time, mayors are an important ally. How can we use the knowledge and observations of mayors? Could they, for example, ask the Minister for a ban on an organisation active in their municipality? Finally. This law, of course, is not on its own. There is more going on in the area of legislation to be able to act against organisations that undermine our rule of law. Can the Minister indicate how this bill relates to the ongoing process of revising Article 22 of the Civil Code? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u48	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to my colleagues Van der Graaf, Van der Staaij, Kuik, Van Toorenburg and Van Wijngaarden, who have today taken their place in trade union K, which is normally reserved for members of the cabinet but is now the place of the initiators of the legislative proposal we are discussing here. A bill that creates an additional instrument to tackle, in particular, faulty motorcycle gangs, which "create, promote or maintain a culture of lawlessness." Lawlessness that undermines society and harms public order. The bill does so by empowering the Minister for Justice to prohibit such gangs by imposing an administrative ban. That bill, so we heard from the mouths of actually every speaker,................................................................................................................................................................................................. It is about the need to be able to intervene in serious criminal behaviour, often accompanied by violence, threats, intimidation and extortion. The need to put an end to places of refuge that do not concern themselves with laws and standards, which are also thought to be able to get away with. And the need to be able to do that firmly and quickly, firmer and faster than today, and therefore more effectively. Because even now that is the revue already passed by criminal gangs can already be banned by the civil court at the request of the Public Prosecutor. But that is much slower than we all want. It takes a long time for such a ban to exist, and as a result it takes a long time for the behaviour you really want to address to stop. This proposal puts a new, faster route next to it. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, that is good. It is a route which, by the way, is surrounded by guarantees, because that is where the Labour Party attaches itself to it, too, in order to prevent it from moving too lightly. To ensure legal remedies, to ensure that the prohibition can be challenged, and ultimately, here too, it is always the judge who has the last word. That's good, too. Mr. Chairman. I do have a few more questions for the initiators. In its opinion, the Council of State claims that the question remains whether the proposed administrative route is so much faster than the civil court route. How do the proposers look at that? How do they look at the fact that motorcycle gangs have been banned on that civil road more often since they submitted their proposal than before their proposal was made? Mr. Chairman. Let's say a request for a restraining order comes to an end in the civil courts. According to the initiators, can the prosecutor present the file on the same gang to the minister, in the hope that it will then proceed with an administrative ban? If you're a member of a club that's no good and it's forbidden, what does that mean to you? That by definition you're no good yourself either? That your employer can only put you out on the street because of that membership? That you can no longer get a statement about the behaviour of the people: a statement of good behavior or no statement of no objection, which, for example, needs a military? I would like to hear the views of the initiators. Finally, how can the proposers prevent, precisely now that so explicitly................................................................................................................................................................................ Because let's face it: there are of course clubs and members of those clubs who are just good and who have a lot of fun with each other and their bikes. That is also what I want to say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u50	Much has already been said about the aim of saving time and ensuring that criminal motorcycle gangs are illegal faster. If that time can be saved in another way, is the PvdA still a great supporter of this administrative road?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u51	I asked the authors about their opinion on the comment made by the Council of State on this point, namely that the pace at which such a ban might be imposed in the proposal of the proposers might be disappointing and that another way might speed it up. When I just saw the interruptions coming along, I felt that there was not only discussion about which road to a ban is the fastest way forward, but that you could also see which way is the fastest way to bring such a ban closer. I have seen, for example, that in the coalition agreement two and a half years ago, something was written about banning motorcycle gangs. There isn't yet. What there is is, however, is a proposal from coalition parties and opposition parties together to bring that acceleration in. For this reason alone, and indeed for this reason, if you would like to enter into this discussion of principle, because I believe that this provides for sufficient safeguards, I think that this proposal should continue with speed. Of course, everyone is free to speed up other procedures as well. I would only welcome that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u52	That's very easy to drive, I think. It is, of course, a violation of a fundamental right. We have said that, because freedom of association is, of course, enshrined in our Constitution. It is, of course, possible to infringe this if it is really useful and necessary. The necessity argued by the author is very much linked to the fact that it is now far too long before there is a ban. That means that people can actually continue to do what they want and that we are all concerned about that. If that benefit and that necessity are to lapse or may be due to a different regime, then my question is what is the point and necessity of this administrative route, which infringes a fundamental right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u53	It is always a little difficult for me to respond to two situations that are put side by side, one of which has already entered into force. This is a concrete legislative proposal that lies here, supported by opposition parties and coalition parties, which provides for a faster approach. I have heard little doubt about this here in this Chamber. The other situation concerns an 'as-dan proposal' which is not yet available, apart from the fact that we read that the proposers are convinced that this proposal does more than just speed up. I follow that belief. The proposal also codifies the court rulings that are now in place on the allocation of conduct to an organisation and the like. My group, the Labour Party, is therefore in favour of this, because the proposal provides for a need, because it makes the handling of wrong gangs more effective and because there are no alternatives at present that we should wait for. Because I think we all agree that we need to tackle this and that this must be done quickly and effectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u54	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u55	Madam President. On behalf of the 50PLUS Group, I would also like to congratulate the initiators on the legislative proposal before us. We wholeheartedly support the bill. It is an important matter to ban organisations that create a culture of lawlessness. Unfortunately, undermining is the order of the day and requires far-reaching measures. An administrative ban which has an immediate effect is therefore an appropriate and necessary means. It concerns in particular the so-called outlaw motorcycle gangs. And, indeed, nothing to the detriment of very nice motorcycle clubs. My group is also convinced by the reaction of the regional mayors to the proposal. They argue that it is a necessary step to arrive at a more effective approach for such organisations. This law restricts the fundamental right to association by means of an administrative ban. According to the Constitution, this can be regulated by law in the interests of public policy. However, the Council of State states that it is unique for the Netherlands to have the freedom of association banned administratively. According to the Council of State, this calls for a fundamental consideration. On the other hand, the 50PLUS Group states that the constitutional right of freedom of association is never intended for organisations whose vast majority of activities consist of committing crimes. Of course, it has to be proven that this is indeed a criminal organisation. In its response, the VNG asks whether a criminal prohibition is desirable for the display or possession of objects or materials referring to a prohibited outlaw motorcycle corridor. For example, a motorcycle jacket with an image on its back can work as a status symbol. As an example, the VNG mentions the German ban on certain letter combinations on plates referring to national socialism. My group finds the VNG's proposal interesting. Although it is somewhat outside the scope of this initiative proposal, I would like a response from the Minister. The regional mayors propose a two-stage missile: not only the minister but also a mayor should be able to impose a ban. Mayors should be given the power to impose an administrative ban on a legal person for the municipality. The Minister is urged to impose the national administrative ban. The 50PLUS Group believes that this could indeed have added value. Are there examples of more or less locally operating OMGs? Please respond to this proposal from the VNG. Furthermore, the regional mayors argue that a ban on support groups of outlaw motor gangs is also desirable. Such groups act as a sort of brawl team and would emerge from the dance. I'd like a comment on that, too. It is precisely the fact that the judge will always have the last word in this proposal that casts doubt on us. Finally. With regard to those cases which will continue to be brought before the courts, I would like to join those who ask: can the court proceedings be considerably reduced? Finally, thank you once again to the initiators and once again to our heartfelt compliments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u56	Thank you, Mr. Krol. Finally, Mr Van Dam has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u57	Mr. Chairman. Let me also begin with the compliments to the, so to speak, anti-criminal motorcycle gang that gathered in trade-K today. It will be clear that the CDA supports this proposal in principle. What difference does it make now? In my view, the way is now to find the way through the criminal acts of individual members to ban a criminal organisation or an organisation which is contrary to the rule of law. The path that is now being chosen is that the arrows are not so much directed at the members, but rather at the shell, at the cloaking, at what is being hounded to engage in criminal activities. We wholeheartedly support that. You can look at the bill along the way of procedure. The procedure shall be substantially adapted. Much has already been said about this in the debate. We believe that this can be achieved by considerably more decisively. But you can also look at the criteria. That's where my questions focus. Does this mean that a different criterion is being applied to the current possibility, in particular in civil law, of banning organisations? The criterion is now: the effectiveness creates a culture of lawlessness. What does that mean? What does that mean, for example, for the information to be provided in order to compile the file? If we want to get some speed and speed in this sort of thing, then not only in the procedure but also in the gathering of information in order to achieve such a thing, it will be profitable if the criterion is more appropriate. At the same time, there is also the danger that colleagues will put forward here. So I would like to have a further clarification of what is exactly different, less or new in terms of criteria when it comes to the action under this bill. In addition, I have a few partial questions. Much has already been asked about the scope of the criterion. Let me give you two examples. What do we do with a criminal dog club, a club where, for example, fighting dogs are bred and trained, which at some point slips off and may commit murder or whatever? Or what do we do with a computer hobby club that at some point slips towards, for example, hosting child pornography? I think it is very important, also listening to the questions that colleagues have asked, that it is clear where the limits lie and how this new criterion will play its role. Then there is another question, which has already been asked but which I would like to ask. It concerns the bill on Article 2.20 BW, which is currently under consultation. I would like to be informed again clearly about the relationship between that legislative proposal and the present initiative proposal. I have the feeling that there are considerable differences, but I think it is also very important, in practice, for the application of this legislation to be discussed in this oral procedure. The final point I would like to raise, Mr President, is the mixing of criminal and administrative law. An administrative procedure is now being chosen to ban civil-law organisations. Of course, we see much more often that, in the context of undermining, administrative law is used to take certain crime-limiting measures. I am very much in favour of that, because I think that in that broad coalition of police, justice, tax authorities and municipalities you need all hands on deck to do things. But I also see that administrative law is becoming more and more like criminal law in terms of its content. That is not strange, because the European Court of Human Rights not only looks at criminal law above it, but also looks at what it means to citizens in a material way. That is why I would like to have some sort of preview of the authors. How do they think this bill will contribute to this? And to what extent could it possibly contribute counter-productively? Finally, Mr President. There are a lot of things to say about this bill. There are also explicitly constitutional aspects to this. It is precisely to serve the rule of law that I now limit my input. This afternoon at 2 p.m., a conference on this subject will begin in the Old Hall of this building. I would like to ask whether all the people from the K and the other subjects and also the public want to be present, no, but at least as many MPs as possible, because this time we are not going to talk about judges and scientists, but with them. And that is an exception that I would recommend to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u58	Then you have used free speaking time for a nice call. I see Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u59	I have a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u60	A point of order. In any event, we have reached the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u61	Mr. Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u62	I would like to underline Mr Buitenweg's request. That is the request for a letter to the Minister, because of the fundamental nature of the discussion and the suggestions that have been made. In particular, it concerns the deletion of the word 'immerged' from Article 140 and the suggestions made to speed up the current procedure. I think it would serve to continue this debate if we could receive that letter from the Minister before the start of the reply. Otherwise, after that answer, we would have to suspend again and, I think, no one would be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-16-tweedekamer-5.u63	I can see from the Minister's non-verbal attitude that he is honouring this request. That's the case. Then we'll wait and see. I would like to thank all the initiators and their support staff very much. Of course, I agree with all the compliments and words of appreciation for the fact that you have worked on this proposal. That indeed takes a lot of time and that is not always easy in addition to the Chamber work. Thank you for that. As I said at the beginning, the continuation will be planned in good consultation with the initiators. For now, I shall suspend the sitting until 1.25 p.m.
