ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u1	We start with the VSO Concept Implementing Decision Act accession healthcare providers and the draft amendment Decision extension and limitation scope Law organisation health care, Chamber number 29247, no. 316. I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since 13 June 2018, I advocate increased participation in planned changes to acute care. At that time, the minister's predecessor indicated that it would be legally binding. And that is much needed, because last week alone I had to ask Chamber questions about the decision-making process at the general practitioners' post in Venray, pharmacy Eemland in Amersfoort and the Ommelander Hospital in Scheemda. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that acute care is a basic provision and of great importance for the viability of each region, and that other healthcare providers, regional and local government and residents should therefore be consulted when adapting the provision of acute care;]] [[Considering that consulting means involving directors, residents and healthcare providers in the chain at a time when substantial influence on the decision can still be exercised and that the provider of acute care should provide a reasoned response involving a consensus-oriented consultation;]] [[Considering that on 13 June 2018, the Minister undertook that, in the event of changes to acute care, he would legally require consultation and dialogue with stakeholders;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the ministerial scheme which comes under the general measure of governance of acute care in any case that municipalities and healthcare providers involved in structural changes in the supply of acute care in the chain must be consulted in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-320]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been to several parent initiatives myself and parents have to do a great deal to launch such a parent initiative. Why do they do that? Because they want the best care for their child. That is why we do not agree with the cabinet that there should be an independent internal supervisor. We find that disproportionate. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber adopted the Bergkamp/Dik-Faber motion to make every effort to avoid unnecessary administrative and financial burdens for parental and family initiatives;]] [[noting that the present draft implementing decision Wtza contains no exception for them as regards the requirement for an independent supervisor;]] [[Whereas an independent internal supervisor would be a disproportionate requirement for these initiatives because parents and/or family themselves direct the care of their relatives;]] [[calls on the Government to make an exception in the Wtza Implementing Decision to the requirement of an independent internal supervisory body for parental and family initiatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29247-321]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. If you give this motion to the Registrar, the motions will be copied and distributed. I'm suspending the meeting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u6	I give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Chamber for the questions we have asked, the discussions we have had and this input. I have two motions in which I would like to stop for a moment because I know that these are important points. I shall begin with Mrs van den Berg's motion on item No. 320. Let me say first of all that I also have a great deal of feeling about the theme she mentions. You want to prevent it from happening to organisations that are not in the care chain but that have built their own infrastructure and their own facilities on what is available. I very much agree with her that it is very important that municipalities, residents and healthcare providers are properly involved, as she says, at a time when their input may still influence the decision to close. Therefore, the draft AMvB, which we sent to the Chamber in May, states that prior to the decision on a planned suspension or closure of the offer of acute care at a particular location, healthcare providers should be consulted with those for whom the suspension or closure may have consequences. As regards municipalities, the AMvB states that they must be involved in advance. With regard to residents, the AMvB provides that the healthcare provider should avoid insecurity in advance among residents. These are the requirements we are going to set out in the ministerial regulation, in which I will arrange for a healthcare provider to organise a meeting with municipalities and also with residents, in principle, at such a time that a substantial influence on the decision can still be exercised. Only if the impact on closures is very limited due to their duration or size can municipalities be involved in writing. The same applies to residents. But in all cases, municipalities and residents will have to be given the opportunity to express their views, concerns and wishes. The healthcare provider must therefore respond to the input of residents and municipalities. This means that municipalities and residents will always be consulted. In a number of cases, I say to Mrs van den Berg, this will also happen to the chairman of the security region. However, as I also read in the motion and whatever I consider important, the healthcare provider itself remains responsible for the quality of care and the health insurance provider has a duty of care. The recital states that "consensual consultation'. I also think that if you're going to do a consultation it's important that you're focused on agreement. The request is clear and with these words I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u8	It's Judgment Room, Mrs. Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u9	I am very pleased with that, Mr President, let me put it first. The Minister is now focusing on the municipalities and the inhabitants, but we are also concerned, as the motion states, with the care providers in the chain. It happened that a hospital made decisions without talking, for example, to the district nurse and to the general practitioner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u10	That's right. This is also aimed at ensuring that this is well organised. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the motion on part No. 321 by Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman. In any case, let me mention in that motion, since I myself have been a spokesperson and have visited many parent initiatives over the years, that I fully agree with what Mrs Bergkamp devoted to this. The most loving care can be found in parental initiatives, because that is also why they have been set up. So I have a lot of feeling about what she's saying. At the same time, it is important that this is also the task that I have taken on, and that we also work together to ensure that quality and safety are in order. Parental initiatives are directed by parents and legal representatives on both living and care and counselling, as care is financed by a personalised budget. In addition, parents and legal representatives also have control over day-to-day or general management. This means that these initiatives do not involve any other adequate legal authorisation regime or other means of ensuring supervision of the management's policies. In general, no specific exception has been made in the AMvB Wtza for institutions providing nursing, counseling or personal care. The reason for this is that these forms of care often involve care to clients with significant limitations in their daily functioning and for whom care also has a very large impact on daily life due to their dependence and need for care. It's also a set of safeguards you're trying to meet. That doesn't change the fact that I assume they're incredibly loving initiatives. There are risks of care at every organization. If you make a specific exception for parental initiatives in internal supervision, there are risks involved. That's what we've been reminded of by the IGJ's judgment. That weighs heavily on me. The fact that parents are close to care can work both ways. It makes the supervision unnecessary, that is the line that Mrs Bergkamp chooses, or an independent look may be necessary. I think the quality of care is just as important. Moreover, I have to take into account that there may be precedents if we exclude this group. Because what makes this group so special to others? Governance and supervision tend to become more complex in a larger number of healthcare providers involved. On the other hand, we expect that the day-to-day or general management of parental initiatives in which parents and/or legal representation have the majority of control is very close to the care process. But there are risks involved. That's why I advise against this motion. Also the Health and Youth Inspectorate has indicated an exception not to be considered desirable in the context of necessary checks-and-balances. It's a vulnerable target group. The internal supervisor has a role to play in this. Mr. Chairman. I also saw the signing of the motion. I know how this lives in the Chamber. I can imagine a single word to that. If this motion is adopted, I will, of course, implement it. I will then ask the inspection to look into this in the near future, because of course we want to avoid the risks they estimate. I'm assuming it's going well and it won't be necessary. If this motion is adopted, we will be paying close attention to its effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you for the warm words for the parental initiatives. I think that the parental initiatives in terms of regulation are really different from large institutions with 400 clients, which is now being compared. Such a parent initiative should be seen as some kind of extension of the home where the parents live. We therefore believe that the best guarantee is with the parents. That is precisely why we have launched such a parent initiative. If there really were a lot of indications about fraud or proper quality of care, I might be tempted to look at it differently. But that is not the case. The inspection also says: don't be disproportionate to small initiatives. I therefore hope that the Minister will be able to accept this motion and perhaps look at how it is going in practice. This Minister has also been instructed to deal with the regulatory burden and the financial burden. I see a real opportunity here. So I'm gonna give it a try.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'm gonna take a look at my colleague in the Civil Service Lodge. Is that under ten? I see her nodding. Healthcare institutions with fewer than 10 healthcare providers are excluded from this level of supervision anyway. Let me say this about it. I get it. I've seen so many wonderful initiatives. There's nothing you'd like more for your child. Yet we also see undesirable things in our society. We also see in families where there is no family-replacing house that there are things that are not good. This can also be done in the case of a parent initiative. In particular, the warning from the IGJ means that from the cabinet I cannot go ahead with the wishes of the Chamber. I understand the motion. I'm sure I'll do the same if this is a Chamber speech. I would point out that because of the risk estimated by the inspection, I will make sure that we do not see any situations that we do not want children to have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-05-tweedekamer-3.u14	We will vote on the two motions next Tuesday.
