ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger, on behalf of GroenLinks, for her question to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State on the non-sharing of nitrogen calculations with the House of Representatives. I would like to welcome the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Everything but everything in the decision-making around Lelystad Airport rattles. Every time it is the residents' organisations that have to prove that report and research are not right. The Minister remains silent until there is no other way and refuses to open up even then. Again, in recent days, there have been two nitrogen calculations showing that the impact of the airport on nature areas is much greater and that they have never been shared with the Chamber. The Minister has just written to the Chamber that it will not have nitrogen calculations done again until after the PAS ruling in May. Does this mean that no new nitrogen calculations have been made between the EIA 2018 and the Council of State's ruling on the PAS, including road traffic, for example? Can the Minister guarantee that? Does the Minister now recognise, with the letter from just now, that the nitrogen calculations in the EIA 2018 are incomplete, inadequate and incorrect? And what else is wrong with road traffic? When did the Minister realize that these nitrogen calculations in the EIA 2018 were wrong? Why did the Minister never inform the Chamber about this? On 14 February the Minister wrote in response to my parliamentary questions that all emissions were included in the environmental impact assessment. I would ask the Minister if the answer to these questions was correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by making it very clear that there is absolutely no question of withholding information. The investigation carried out by Bureau 4cast to which the NOS article also refers does not relate to past decision-making information. It is part of an extensive research process to arrive at an appropriate assessment. After the collapse of the soil under the PAS system in May last year, of course, we started working with all the projects in aviation, on the railways, on the road and on the water as a spear, as your Chamber asked, to see how we can solve this as quickly as possible. On September 5th, I informed your Chamber that I also started a specific nitrogen investigation at Lelystad Airport. Such an investigation consists of different phases. You have a triple: it is about traffic to and from the airport, about the airport itself and of course about flying. The 4cast office concerned the building block relating to traffic to and from the airport. On the basis of those input data, RIVM calculated the depositions in the nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites with AERIUS. These calculation results are then incorporated into the ecological research. Once you know what the emissions are, you know where the deposition ends up, so in which Natura 2000 sites. The next step is that you have to figure out how that can be mitigated and compensated by internal or external netting, so how to solve that problem. If you have all that together, it always has to be checked again before you apply for the final permit. For example, in road transport, the reduction in speed is still needed; it is also possible to do so only afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u5	The minister here says, "Once you know what the emissions are." Does it therefore recognise that in the 2018 EIA, that is the current EIA, on the basis of which an airport decision was taken by the Council of Ministers and on the basis of which the whole consultation procedure has been conducted, the full nitrogen emissions are not present and that the EIA is therefore incomplete and incorrect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u6	This environmental impact assessment has been approved by the independent Commission for the m.e.r. ........................................................................................ You also know that only then did the whole problem of the disappearance of the PAS arise. In the meantime, at the request of your Chamber, I have launched a completely independent Commission for Europe. and the RIVM, another look at the findings as formulated by SATL, the action groups against Lelystad. I want to do this very carefully, so I really do leave that to the independent Commission for the m.e.r. and check the RIVM. As soon as the result is there, I will, of course, inform you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u7	I would like to ask the question again: are there any new nitrogen calculations between the time the EIA 2018 was adopted and the decision of the Council of State in May, where more nitrogen deposition results from, and if so, are those calculations shared with RIVM? Did RIVM use these calculations to do analyses on the studies of the residents' organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u8	I am not quite sure, but I am guessing that Mrs Kröger is referring here to the date mentioned, namely 8 February. That is what we tried to find out at RIVM, because we weren't aware of anything from 8 February. The RIVM indicated that they were wrong about the date of one of the data files. Instead of 2-8, they said 8-2. It was 2 August and therefore not 8 February. I can't make it more beautiful than it is, but this is just what happened at RIVM. Yes, you can check with the RIVM, which, as you know, is completely independent. It's no different. Perhaps that has given rise to the false image that everything has been investigated again in February, because that is simply not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u9	It is now a bit of a complicated trick with numbers, if even data are turned around. I think it is of the utmost importance that this Minister here pledges that all the nitrogen calculations currently at RIVM and at the Ministry, which have been shared with the Remkes Committee and, possibly, with the M.E. Commission, will go to the Chamber so that we, as representatives of the people, and also the residents, can actually check those figures. The Minister now states that she did not look at these figures until after the decision of the Council of State and then saw that those figures were actually wrong. This means that we have been talking about incorrect nitrogen calculations for a year and the Minister has never informed us of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u10	Mrs Kröger is now trying to put something in my mouth that I would absolutely not like to say. I have just indicated that the environmental impact assessment has been checked and that we have received the approval of the independent Commission for the m.e.r. Then, in May, there was a nitrogen statement, which means that we are now acting as follows in each project that applies to each MIRT project and to the roads. Each project is of course counted and we look at which Natura 2000 sites the deposition takes place: what do you have to do? First, we need the set complete. In addition, the SATL report still plays. This is not due to traffic movements to and from Lelystad, but to the heat input data from aircraft emissions and so on. If we have everything together and there is a possibility of a licence application, you can of course be informed about it, as we do with all other projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u11	It is strange that the Minister is really confusing two things here. On the one hand, there is the Council of State's ruling on nitrogen deposition, so what is falling down. On the other hand, the question is how much the Lelystad Airport project emits. We have all been under the assumption for years that the EIA 2018 is what the Minister is working with. Now she says: no, those numbers are actually wrong. The road must be taken. We're all recalculating things. That is good, but I would like the Minister to acknowledge that the EIA 2018 is therefore incomplete. She'll have things added to that. But that does mean that we have an airport decision that has been passed by the Council of Ministers and that is based on an incomplete environmental impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u12	I'm gonna throw that off my head again. It is precisely at the request of your Chamber and on repeated advice from the Remkes Committee that I have chosen to have it checked completely independently, so that all the various parts are kept under review. As soon as I have the outcome, I will, of course, share it with your Chamber as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u13	Thank you, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u15	Mr. Chairman. Underneath this cabinet we see a pattern. Whether it's about Defence, Justice and Security, Home Affairs, and this Minister of Infrastructure and Water State is no exception to any reports are not shared with the Chamber, calculations that don't fit well are not sent to the Chamber, even though they are known to RIVM. If we look specifically at the dossier at Lelystad Airport, we see that the environmental impact assessment is incorrect, that the social cost-benefit analysis is incorrect and that the nitrogen calculations known to RIVM are not sent to the Chamber. I would like to ask this Minister how, in this sensitive dossier, she can choose not to share with the Chamber nitrogen calculations that we have repeatedly asked for. Mrs Kröger also spoke about this. What does that do with the confidence of all those people who have been working on this dossier for years? We cannot have a real debate on this either. What does this do to these people's confidence, according to this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u16	I also wonder what it will do to people's confidence if it is constantly questioned. The environmental impact assessment is simply by the independent committee for the m.e.r. approved. What should we add to that? Anything that is later claimed to be wrong, I will have the same commission independently for the m.e.r., check by the RIVM and so on. It's perfectly normal for you to have numbers that are one of the building blocks of the calculations passed on properly. We do that with every MIRT project and, as you know, there are many hundreds of them. A lot of people are counting on it right now. There is no point in sending all these calculations to the Chamber if you do not know how they will lead to a permit in the final picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u17	I note that this is a very damaging picture for all those people who are worried about air traffic. The public authorities must communicate in a clear way and there must be no discussion about the figures. It's gonna happen now. Does the Minister realize how damaging this is to people's trust? Is it prepared to give an overview of the emissions as set out in the already established EIA and the emissions based on the calculations that are now available? I think people have a right to know if there's light in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u18	I very much agree with Mr Moorlag that everyone is entitled to that transparency. I'm trying to make the most of that. Not only is the Ministry responding to all kinds of messages, but they are also checked by independent experts. That's being worked on right now. As soon as the results come up, I'll share them with the Chamber. Lately I have noticed that I am not immediately believed on my blue eyes. I understand that very well. That's absolutely fine. That is why I ask the independent experts once again to get this straight for us. As soon as we get that, of course you will. That's how we do it with all the projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u19	I have one question. Restoration of trust was the core commitment of this minister at her start with the airport file. I want to zoom in specifically on the date of August 2. Actually, it only gets worse if it wasn't February 8, but August 2. On 3 June we asked specific questions about nitrogen depositions. The Minister replied on 14 August. That actually means that it is either a bad minister or she is not aware of those calculations, or that he is an unreliable minister, because she is aware of the calculations, but she has not given them at the time when the Chamber asked for them. Which one is the minister? Is it a bad minister or an unreliable minister? How's she gonna restore confidence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u20	I can only say very clearly that, after the PAS statement, we started working on all the projects in order to make that appropriate assessment. I indicated that we did the same for Lelystad Airport. Traffic to and from the airport, traffic at the airport and flying itself, all of this needs to be mapped out. Mr Van Raan is a good man, but that is what needs to be done. That's what we've been working on, and it's far from finished. You also know that additional questions have been raised by the Remkes Committee on supplementary advice. We also said that the SATL report should be disproved independently and not just by the Ministry or the sector. We're working on that, and as soon as that's done, you'll get it, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u21	The Minister knows that this dossier is really under a magnifying glass, and she mentioned it herself as well, and that a lot of people are watching and worried. Now we have another situation. Shouldn't be anymore, right? So the question is: is the Minister prepared, as the Minister for Social Affairs calls it, to create some sort of road map or at least to say what we are getting at what point, so that it is crystal clear to everyone that something is still under way, when it comes to the Chamber and when we can talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u22	I cannot give that exactly with the dates, because I am just as dependent on the Commission for the m.e.r., where now is the request to at least respond to the issues mentioned in the SATL report. So I'm just as dependent on when that report is finished, because they need to be able to do it in peace and care. Once that's done, we can see how we deal with the nitrogen problem. Moreover, this has wider implications, including for the Aviation Note. Then we'll be able to make the total trade-off. Meanwhile, as with all projects, hard work is being done. As soon as I get that, I'll be happy to outline the follow-up process. With regard to the Lelystad file, there's already a lot in your room. What is missing is mostly the nitrogen component. As soon as it's there, I'll get it to you as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u23	It's a good thing the Minister's letting everything go through again. The Minister has also promised that the Commission will be responsible for the m.e.r. and the RIVM get involved, so that's what's going to happen. I do have a question about the nitrogen calculations for road traffic made in July. Does that mean that the answers in the reply note and the answers to the written questions that have been asked in the meantime by me and other Members of Parliament are all based on nitrogen calculations that do not involve road traffic?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u24	I believe that the usual methodology has applied to this. Then, of course, road traffic has also been taken into account. Again, in order to know exactly what is happening, we must always calculate the current state of affairs. I also indicated: if we have this whole picture complete later, we will probably have to do an update again, or that's for sure because there hasn't been a reduction in speed in the summer and we have now. So that too will be another updating round. It keeps moving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u25	The nitrogen crisis keeps us all busy. The Remkes Committee has indicated that aviation should contribute to this. Of course that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u26	It's very loud in the room. It's almost...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u27	...an important responsibility of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u28	You may speak louder, but it's very loud. We'll wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u29	Look. That works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u30	The nitrogen crisis keeps us all busy. Everyone thinks that aviation should also contribute to this. Of course, this is primarily a responsibility of this Minister, but also of this Chamber, because people here also come up with proposals and ideas to do something about it. If there are already six months of data and calculations on the nitrogen emissions from Lelystad Airport, then it might be odd that the House of Representatives does not have one six months later. The Minister says it's no use to the Chamber if I just send that data to you. But the House of Representatives can of course also have an opinion on this. So my question is: do you acknowledge that the Chamber can think differently, and if so, are you prepared to send the 4cast report and the report of 2 August, I'll just call it a moment, which was at the RIVM, to the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u31	Let me get this straight: this is not about reports. This is simply the input data provided to the RIVM. Of course, the Chamber is always about it itself. I don't want to take anything away from it, but I also want to tell you that it is perfectly normal for you to finish the whole process and that it doesn't go to the Chamber until you have the overall picture. We do that on every highway or on every MIRT project.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u32	I would like to ask what Mrs Van Brenk asked about, namely on the timeline. I understand from the Minister that time itself is difficult to indicate. But the request to the minister is perhaps now or in a note it is possible for all the information that we are still getting, which the minister has promised, eh... Because the SATL report will still be assessed by the Commission for the m.e.r. and the RIVM. We now have all the calculations and we will come up with an appropriate assessment in a moment. Can we still get all that content in a note? Apart from the point that we don't know exactly when, but then we do have the total picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u33	Mr Amhaouch has given me the opportunity, unintentionally, to do so. Mr Bruins has just indicated that the Commission is in favour of Mr Bruins' report. and getting RIVM involved, but that really doesn't do them any good. It shall be carried out by the Commission for the m.e.r. and the RIVM, so that's really something else. It's not like we're doing it and they're getting involved. The independent Commission for the M.e.r. is really in the lead, as has been suggested by your Chamber and the Remkes Committee. The missing piece of information is the nitrogen. I would like to say to Mr Amhaouch that we will send it to you as soon as we have it. At the same time, we will also inform you of what the follow-up process looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-tweedekamer-5.u34	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
