ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	The debate is about the developments surrounding the coronavirus. In the first term, we agreed on three questions on the part of the Chamber, and six questions on the part of the Cabinet. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is not often that the decision-maker himself is disappointed in the outcome. I saw that yesterday. I think we would all have liked more: more freedom, more space for entrepreneurs and more air in care. We're just not at that point yet. If you zoom far out and look at the Netherlands, we'll do it handsomely. After five weeks of intelligent lockdown, the curve is pretty flat. The first peak has just been, and the care could handle it. There were no soldiers who had to carry dead people out of their homes, like in Italy, and no mass graves, like in New York. But when you zoom in, there's a lot of pain and fear. There is grief, illness and rehabilitation, and overstressed staff in the care. Today, both the signal that one wants to wear preventive masks in care and the signal that people who receive intensive care through a pgb are again not eligible for protective equipment. Can the Minister answer that? When you zoom in, you also see a lot of pain in companies. Companies are already bankrupt. There are entrepreneurs who strip off the days they can still bridge, and they long for a glimmer of hope. There are entrepreneurs who see a little light again with many creative solutions for themselves, but now wonder how long that tunnel will be. I'd like to highlight a few. First of all, the contact professions. Hairdressers are the most widely discussed example. They hoped, of course, that they would be able to get back to work with measures now. I read in a letter that the OMT is giving advice next week. In the briefing we heard "the next two weeks" and that the cabinet wants to look at it. However, I would like to ask the Cabinet not to wait until 20 May if this advice is positive, but to allow hairdressers and others with the necessary protective equipment to get back to work more quickly. Second, the catering business. They don't stack glasses in the catering industry right now, they're in trouble. The general support measures seem to be showing gaps in the hospitality sector. I think we need a separate plan for the catering industry for a longer period of time. Because with many one-and-a-half-meter bars, if you can do something again, you can't come out of the cost. Is the cabinet prepared to sit down specifically with this sector to find solutions? Mr. Chairman. Thirdly, sport associations. Fortunately, children are allowed to play a bit of sports again, but clubs and associations are struggling financially. Is the government also prepared to look with the sports sector at what is needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	Suppose a catering entrepreneur has a terrace, sells food and drink, and can indeed do so from such a hatch. Suppose food and drink can be paid for and ordered there without coming near people, and he has a terrace where he can observe that 1.5 meters that we all consider so important. Doesn't the VVD say: that should be possible now? Because then there's no contact between those people. There are other entrepreneurs who can deliver takeout products, but suppose someone here in The Hague or Scheveningen has a terrace, wants to sell food and drink, and can put everyone there, either alone or alone, with a distance of 1.5 meters. It would be very helpful if it were allowed to. You're saying that's what the cabinet should be looking at now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	That's what we need to look at anyway. When I hear it like that, I think, like Mr Wilders: the difference with doing something outside is small, so it should be possible. But I also want to know from experts what the indirect effects of this are. Can we have a table? And do you have to disinfect that every time? Can you have a menu, and do you have to disinfect it every time? That's already in the protocols for the catering industry, but if you do this, for example, at beach tents or in squares, does that lead to a lot of people on the subway, which means you have another problem there? So, yeah, I want to go this way. I wish we'd been there by now. But I do want to make sure that it is an acceptable risk and that it does not cause another peak, that the ic is overrun and that many people die.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	But you are saying that the cabinet is also in the documents of the OMT, but also in that of the cabinet next week or soon comes with more information. But that's mainly about the contact professions such as hairdressers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Do you agree with me that we could at least ask the Cabinet that it should also provide further information on the catering industry and on the intelligent solutions that catering companies themselves come up with? If entrepreneurs have a terrace and can arrange it with a distance of 1.5 meters between the tables, where people can order drinks and food without being touched, then it would be hugely helpful for those entrepreneurs if we could discuss that next week or the following week, at least as soon as possible, together with the contact professions, with a vision of the experts, here. Do you agree or do you say that we will see 20 May?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	If possible, it would be fantastic. I agree. But I want to make sure that by doubling the demand, the advice comes later, so that we only achieve that the hairdressers, for example, get advice later. We shouldn't want that. I think the hospitality industry is a lot more complicated to investigate and has a lot more variants. You already have catering entrepreneurs with a large parking lot where, when you have picked up your food, you can eat it in your own car. Of course that's not as cozy as on a terrace, but you can already see that happening. I'd also like that hospitality research as soon as possible, but I wouldn't want to link it up. I think it's really gonna take more time to visualize all those variants. I will immediately ask for an even wider width than just the catering industry, but I would prefer to have it as soon as possible, especially towards 20 May. But it's still a trade-off. And if you know the risk it brings, it doesn't mean it can be automatic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	I agree with you on the latter point: it is not automatic. But don't forget that some 50 industries have already submitted such plans. So there's something there. There are already plans, in my opinion also of the catering industry, which show very creatively and inventively how they would have been helped in accordance with all the rules that exist. It's not gonna be like it was for a while, I get that too, but they'd be helped with that. I agree with you that we should not link it up, but it would be great for the caterers if it could go faster and at least we do not have to wait until 20 May. Then perhaps you can agree with me? It doesn't have to be linked to the contact professions, but we prefer to hear something as soon as possible. If you can do it next week, please do it next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have already mentioned three examples, but the problems are, of course, broader. They were an illustration of all entrepreneurs who have to fight hard with creative solutions to survive. I share Mr Wilders' question about the protocols. Of course, you can't do anything without protocol if there's room for relaxation. But the impression is still a bit awakened, well, not awakened, but actually arise that you could work with a protocol. There are now companies opening up again with a protocol. Those companies had closed themselves down, for example large department stores. But there are also companies that cannot automatically open with a protocol. Hence the question to the Cabinet as to how they intend to weigh those protocols and how fast it can be around weighing such a protocol around the impact on risks and protocoled opening up of certain sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr Dijkhoff had a very good plea at the General Reviews, I thought, about the reciprocity of companies and the reciprocity between companies and society. I think he mentioned Philips as a good example back then. At this time of crisis, we see billions of state aid going to large companies in no time. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree that it would be justified to impose requirements or conditions before such a company is eligible for billions of state aid, which we all have to pay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	Yes, as in: with the next package. We had to do this fast. We often say here that care is above speed, but in this case it had to be the other way around. Oh, yeah, sure. I expect a second aid package to be needed, and then it is not unreasonable to ask what they can contribute in the spirit of reciprocity. This applies to business, but we were also talking about the catering industry. I also sometimes look at the trade unions who can help give some air to the entrepreneurs, for example by getting the holiday money later or not building holiday days yet. But it certainly also applies to companies. Everyone's gonna have to settle in a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	"Everything a bit organised" sounds reasonable, but we also have companies like Booking.com. That company makes billions of profits, I believe 15 billion. And that says now: we really don't have any money to pay our people for a few months, because it's all been paid out to the shareholders. They now come to the government, to us, to keep their hand, and the taxpayer can pay for it. Do you not think that this should be subject to conditions? Or do you say, no, that should be transferred now, and we kind of lost that money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	"Don't lose it." I'm not on terms, but I'd like to nuance it. I don't even want to save a company. I want to save those jobs from people. So not: wow, what a big company, we're going to support that, otherwise the sign will fall off the facade. I don't think this particular company is running a lot of sales right now. But what I don't want is for us to help a company that says it can't keep its people in service, but buys shares or pays dividends the way we usually look at them. I'm careful about this because I'm not an expert on everything. So I always have the idea that when we talk about buying back shares and paying dividends, we have the same image and not finding it fit when you hang on to the support. But then there is always someone with an example in which that precise act was technically socially responsible. So I would like to make a reservation. But with the image we're talking about right now, so what we're talking about, we agree that you have to set conditions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	Well, the case of Booking, for example, is a company that has already gained a lot of tax advantage. So that has already paid for billions of dollars of taxes that it might have had to pay. And that's what the State's right now is for aid, while there are a lot of billions in the bank, but all of which have been transferred to shareholders. If Mr Dijkhoff says that there should be conditions for the next aid package, I would like to know whether he agrees that, for example, keeping your people in service should be the number one condition for eligibility for that support, but that it should also be ensured, for example, that the money that the government will be transferring to those companies will not be paid back to the shareholders or bonuses at the top. Does Mr Dijkhoff agree with me that these should be minimum conditions for such a next aid package? And is he willing, perhaps together, to call on the Cabinet to arrange that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	Yeah, in that direction, yeah. I always make a small reservation; not to get out of it, but reality is always more uncomfortable than we can imagine. After a few years of law school, at least I remembered that. So, yes, the broad lines are the inappropriate behaviours that are not part of such a package of support. You don't have to attract government support to keep your staff in service, and then at the end of the year you notice: oh fine, we have quite a lot left. Then you didn't need it. My party has been asking all kinds of people who need state aid for a long time to ensure that it is as short as possible, that they recover as soon as possible. So that also suits large companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	Thank you. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	I thought it was a very good point from Mrs Marijnissen, but also a good answer from the VVD. Because earlier we heard: it has to be with a moral apple. But I think we know that that doesn't work; a moral appeal works for people who are morally concerned with it. So let's make it a little sharper and more precise, then the cabinet can indicate what is and is not feasible. Does the VVD agree with us that at least you want no bonuses paid and that there will be moderation at the top, if we all pay 90% of salaries? Does the VVD agree with us that that means that you will not buy shares and pay dividends? And does the VVD agree with us that that means that you will keep everyone in service, and not just the people you are forced to do in the current arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	Every time with the asterisk we keep room in case there is always one exception, where it is in the social interest and it is logical and justifiable that it should happen. Let's give you a few examples. We've already put a cap on income at the NOW. Not everything gets reimbursed. There are companies that, a little late in the day, realized that if you apply for state aid, a salary increase for the top man might not be very convenient. Well, that was an insight just in time. I don't know if that was because of the moral apple or not, but I don't just want to depend on a moral apple. You don't want to give a company a lot of support, you let the minister call you three more times if it's wise and they say: yes, we think this is wise, triple the top man's salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	Thanks for the answer. This means that we give the cabinet: these are the demands and conditions. The cabinet must then back it up if there is to be an exception. That is not what we are going to deal with here. But the message of politics The Hague is: we are all going to try to get out of the crisis and try to keep people's jobs, because we agree on that. That means we make demands on the behavior of such a company: realize where the money comes from, use it to keep your people in service, not for the top, not for the shareholders, not for dividends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u20	I can agree to terms. First of all, I would like to give the cabinet the opportunity to advise us on what it considers to be sensible and unwise. For example, I have heard one example about dividend payments, where they said: let's say we get an amount, but in order to keep our staff in service, we need a capital injection that we're not going to get if we don't have to pay a little dividend to new people who put their money into it. That's a very different picture than we normally have when we talk about it here. So you're gonna have to save room for that. Furthermore, I think that we should look very carefully at the fact that the conditions that we set really fit with economic reciprocity, with the aim of maintaining jobs and putting tax money into companies so that they survive, and we will not mix it with political wishes that we already had. I'll be focused on that. Let me give you two ridiculous examples. We should not ask a transport company not to release more CO if it gets support and a pub that is only given alcohol-free. Then you are mixing those things, which you may wish for, with the purpose of the support package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u21	Finally, Mr. Asscher. No? Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u22	Glad to hear that the VVD is also moving a bit towards the fact that it is good to be able to set conditions. I was wondering whether this would also apply to aid for agriculture. I refer to the calf sector. That's where the VanDrie Group has a kind of monopoly. That family is number seven of the Quote 500 and has an equity of 1 billion. Does the VVD also think that this kind of wealthy organisations should start working on their own in order to get their subsidiaries out of the fire before we consider any support? I'm not a fan of that at all, but first of all that first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u23	I think that this is a little too short, because you can have that there are two identical companies in one sector that have made other decisions about what they do with their money. One didn't spend it and the other did. That would be punished. So I think that is too short a reasoning, especially when it comes to one company specifically. I think you should set conditions that are generally good and honest, and not necessarily look at a company with a high capacity and then say: eat it yourself first. I am not necessarily concerned with the company. I'm talking about the entrepreneur who runs that company and the people who work there, and that they can keep working and keeping their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u25	With Paul the Krom shoes, no socks either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u26	I would like to leave that part with Mr De Jonge. The danger, but also the great, of extreme examples, is that everyone agrees with you quickly or disagrees, but I do hope that Mr Dijkhoff will also see that, at the same time as resolving this economic crisis, we must take steps towards a sustainable economy. If you as a government are going to invest hugely in these companies or give them money, under any conditions, it is not strange to ask questions about sustainability as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u27	I'm having trouble with that. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Op het gebied van duurzaamheid hebben we een heel pakket liggen.]] We have climate measures. That goes on. I'm not saying you have to stop doing that. You just have to keep doing that. However, additional requirements can also eliminate the aid. If you give companies support to absorb something that falls away but imposes demands that also cost money... It shouldn't be blackmail, it shouldn't be coercion. I'm always open to a smart combination, but if you give x support and make a demand that makes what needs to be done with that support twice as expensive, it doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u28	There's always something to come up with that doesn't make sense. I understand that, but it's the principle that we're not ruling out that you're also asking questions and demands about sustainability. We're working together to get out of that climate crisis. The economic crisis has only just begun and is getting much deeper. This means that the government will have to regularly assist those companies. Then we can also ask questions about sustainability, to ensure, not only that we save them now, but also that they are ready for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u29	For a couple of years, there has been quite a difference in style in the way Mr Klaver and I look at sustainability and climate. For anecdotes, I refer to my colleagues in the coalition. I don't start from principles and big things. Up to now, I come up with offers and microexamples. I want to know what the demands we make for the entrepreneur mean. First, I want to see if it's reasonable and real. I do not want to say now: gosh, we are also going to put sustainability requirements in the package. If you say to an entrepreneur "you all get support if you change something about your business, and we also pay for it," it will be a very expensive package. That's a different story than when you say: I'm gonna take you one step ahead and you can put it back right back, because I've made a lot of demands on you about investments that you have to make right now, because you're gonna have to change your whole business. Then make it concrete for me; then I can judge it. Otherwise I find it easy words, which sound very principled and beautiful, but which I cannot see the consequences of. And I'd have to say yes to it? Then I'll say no to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u30	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u31	If Mr Dijkhoff does not say yes, he will say no to it. The reason why I come to this is because Mr Dijkhoff just said in very general terms: if we give money, I do not want to put any other demands on it than simply that the company should stand up. I doubt that. That you have to look very specific and focused at every company and that it can vary per company, so that it is customized, I agree. But it is precisely in this crisis that I hope that there will be room for us to see how we can make our economy more sustainable and that we will assess it by company and by application. I hope that Mr Dijkhoff will leave room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u32	Without this crisis, too, we already had a policy and scope for this. We'll just go through with it. But I want to make sure that before we can reassure someone that he can keep his job, we first have to run a full scan at the company site on the state of sustainability. I have just been asked a number of very specific things, in which I already try to make a nuance, namely that I understand the line, but I would like to keep an eye on it when such a statement undermines the goal. So when you have a measure that doesn't actually serve the purpose anymore, or even works against it. Now I think it's even more abstract. We have sustainability policies. We have climate policy. It just goes on and on. That transition is going on, and as far as I'm concerned, we're not pulling the plug. But to add up to that, every catering entrepreneur who will be using the support package will also be subject to sustainability requirements... I don't quite see that yet. So I would like to see that more specific first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u33	It is excellent that colleagues Marijnissen and Asscher state that demands are being made, as is the case in Denmark. If you're going to lie down on the government infusion, you can't buy your own shares, pay dividends and reward the top with a doubling of the salary and so on. I was just surprised at the answer that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u34	Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u35	Dijkhoff, that's right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You always help me at the right time. I was therefore surprised by what Mr Dijkhoff said about the power test. If there's a family with a fortune of a billion, he says, well, I don't necessarily think there should be a power test on that. I'm asking him what that's like to rhyme with the following. If people are on welfare, they have a capital test of €12,450. It's just hard; it doesn't matter if they haven't had holidays. It doesn't matter if they've turned every penny they have to save. Then it's hard as hell. If someone wants to be involved in the public aid infusion, then Mr Dijkhoff says: well, if they have a billion, then the question is whether you include it in the capital test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u36	You call a rich family with a company. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. This does not apply to support for own income, but to support for management; for the jobs of all those other people. Not for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u37	That means, morally speaking, right? Suppose a company, a family that takes action, has EUR 1 billion, and says: we have pulled that out of society in recent years with good entrepreneurship. Then, in this situation of great crisis, it is solidarity when you ask for a sacrifice to be made of it. Then they do not necessarily have to be financed by the government, because, as Mr Dijkhoff says, it is about people's jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u38	Imagine having an employee who just had an inheritance. Then you're not gonna say: you're working for a company that gets state aid, so why don't you just eat your own assets first? You won't get a paycheck in the next few months, but you'll have to keep working. This is about people who just do their jobs, who just keep working, who get into trouble because of the crisis and then have a choice. Their company goes down, and if they knock on the door for assistance themselves, they'll have that power test. Whether they can with a little or a lot of support from the government on a case-by-case basis, we need to look at what's wise to continue their business and keep all those people in service. Well, then it makes sense that you won't be able to pull a lot more out of that company that year. I do not think it is logical to distinguish between aid to a company to address what it has earned and invested in recent years. That doesn't depend on the fact that that money is probably not in the company. Then you're gonna appeal to private assets. I think that's weird. When it comes to own income, that rule would apply, but this is about the incomes of others who help you with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u39	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u40	It is also morally wrong that companies such as Action and Booking.com, which have paid billions to their own shareholders in recent years, should immediately call on the money of all of us at the slightest. A situation was just mentioned where a company has a lot of equity, in this case a family of entrepreneurs. Fine, they did good. It's more than a billion dollars. If we go into welfare with the government, if we can help a company with the money we put in the pot together, why would that be different than helping someone who comes into welfare and then gets a capital test, no matter how he lived the years before?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u41	I just explained that to you. That's no different than those people, if those individuals, they're gonna get help themselves. You say that these individuals must turn in their own money if they are to rely on a government regulation that ensures that their employees still have pay. Then I find it complicated. I don't think they're knocking at the slightest. I do not have the impression that what is happening now is the slightest or least. Nor do I have the impression that you will have to take a different form of company taxation with retroactive effect. I think companies should pay for their fair share. This cabinet has taken many measures against companies that through all kinds of constructions do not contribute to the society where they get something out of. You have to fix that in a general sense. If, in general terms, we all note that we have a huge economic crisis where we would rather let people keep their jobs with state aid than let them all lose their jobs and let companies go bankrupt. If you get support, you can't say: I'll have extra money to buy back my shares. But if a family has built up assets from a company, I find it a bit of a strange incentive to say: you do not receive income support yourself, but you do for your employees. That would never work. I just don't see that in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u42	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u43	Mr President, let's not talk about the economy anymore. We learn more about the virus every day. We do this in our own country, because unfortunately we have more and more experience with it, but also from abroad we get all these insights. I've called a few times to stay open to that. I appreciate the way the cabinet, as well as the OMT, works. Open up to research, and update advice if necessary. But I also see that the OMT is increasingly being asked to give advice on things that are broader than just the virus itself, which are wider than just the medical side, the behavior of the virus. I think that makes the OMT vulnerable. We now have an OMT that spends a lot of time processing the scientific insights as quickly as possible, fresher than in a normal scientific process, with the risk that there will be new insights a few weeks later. They do so and are then criticised for Table 13 in Annex 4. They put a lot of energy into that. Then there's the advice and then there's the opinions and the talk shows. It says a lot of things and that is not always well-founded, but very often offers much more pleasant conclusions. There'll be a lot more in one go. I can't say it's all bullshit. If it's unsubstantiated, I can't check it either. We can't separate the chaff from the chaff. It is logical that there are many opinions, apart from those of the OMT, but then it is also time that we, as politicians, chose to make sound opinions on them and ask for that support and take it seriously. This should not be done by extending the OMT, but perhaps by making it another club with sensible people from other quarters, who are also now broadening the advice and issues, which can give broader advice to the cabinet and to politics. My question is therefore whether the cabinet is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u45	Madam President. The corona virus is far from defeated. The number of ic-recordings is falling, fortunately, but that is also because a new rule was introduced three weeks ago. With corona infected elderly, vulnerable elderly, the general practitioner does not recommend going to the hospital and encouraged to stay home and die there, in silence. An indescribable drama and a civilized country unworthy! And the catastrophe that took place in the nursing homes is actually only now coming to light in full. The cabinet chose to allow nursing and home care staff to work without mouth caps for weeks. And they did it on purpose! The result was a massive contamination of care workers and weak elderly and no less than 1,430 deaths in nursing homes. And this is about our fathers, our mothers, our grandparents, the people who built this country. They have paid contributions throughout their lives and have now been left by this cabinet to their gruesome fate. And I haven't heard of anyone apologizing, neither have you, Prime Minister Rutte. And I find that a disgrace. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, the cabinet decided to reopen the primary schools after the May holidays, and I think that is too early. I think that's unwise, too. It's full of uncertainties about its consequences. Investigations have not yet been completed. The OMT knows nothing for sure and is internally divided. Recent research, for example from the Israeli Ministry of Health, shows that one third of infected children under 9 years of age are asymptomatic and silent spreaders of the virus. I ask the cabinet to reconsider this decision and at least determine that all parents who do not want to let their children go to school after the May holiday may do so without being fined. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Our economy is getting hit like never before. Companies go bankrupt and people lose their jobs. The Netherlands therefore urgently needs perspective. People crave getting their freedom back. Companies are dying to get back into business as soon as they can and as soon as that is justified. But what it takes to cut down that lockdown faster and more responsibly is that the cabinet finally gets its shit together. So, for starters, we finally have to start testing, testing and testing massively, both on the virus and on antibodies. And that's what people outside of care have to do. After all, measuring is knowing. We also need to do massive source and contact research through interviews. They've achieved great results in the north of the country. As Professor Friedrich of the UMCG said, and I quote, "Because we could detect 90%, we were better than the west and the middle of the country able to stop the spread." We don't have time, we don't have time to wait for an app that works and so we have to start the contact investigation by letting people do it. I would ask the cabinet to ensure that thousands of people do other countries that are already going to help the GGD and, of course, receive a decent remuneration for this. I am considering tabling a motion on this point. Finally, I say to the cabinet, take care of adequate protective equipment, such as mouth caps. There are still shortages. Mr. Chairman. In an interruption it appeared that sooner or later there should be opportunities to restart the economy, whether it be about the contact professions or the catering industry. As far as we are concerned, this is sooner than later and preferably before 20 May. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the tax money. This really is a time of crisis, when we must use our taxpayers' money wisely and not throw it away for silly purposes. So my proposal is that the cabinet should stop giving money to that crazy climate and nitrogen policy, to the European Union, to Africa and to fortune seekers in the Netherlands. Put all that money, all these dozens, maybe hundreds of billions, into the Dutch economy and into our care. That's where it's gonna be. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I ask the Prime Minister: give the Netherlands a perspective. Give our people perspective on getting back their freedom, on keeping their business or their jobs. Dutch people deserve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u46	Mr. Ru... Mr Jetten has a question. Mr Rutte too, but that is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u47	Let me check to see if I understand correctly. Mr Wilders criticized the government's request to the educational field: see how you could open up again after the May holiday under good conditions. At the same time, however, Mr Wilders advocated reopening the catering industry as soon as possible. Is it not much more sensible, I would ask Mr Wilders, simply to look at the risks by sector and under what conditions one can start again with caution? So both the educational field and all those different sectors and companies that want to start up again in a safe and responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u48	Both have to be accounted for. In reply to Mr Jetten, I think it is really too early in the field of education. I would like things to be different, you know, because I know that a lot of parents and children think it is time for the children to go back to school; who can oppose that? But I see that the OMT is divided, for example, as to whether the children should be immediately or in groups. That's what they're divided up about. I see scientists, both in the Netherlands and abroad, who say: be careful, because children are often asymptomatic............................................................................................................................................................................................. So science is divided. There's no certainty about it. And I don't think you should experiment with kids. I don't think you should do it and wait a while. Then when it comes to the hospitality business. Yes, of course it has to be justified. But as I just said to the VVD colleague in an interrupting debate, you can do it wisely. I gave the example of a catering entrepreneur with a window and a terrace, who sells stuff, drinks and food, with different terraces, and who abides by the rules: two men, or only family members, or whatever you want to shape it, 1.5 meters away. So someone who's creative about it. I think that should be possible. No one who disputes that that will happen in a responsible way. And it's really good for our economy. 50 industries have submitted plans. I believe that the cabinet at least has a duty to look at it before it does on 20 May. And if it is justified, of course it is not, but if it is justified, it must be done as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u49	No one wants to experiment. Everyone wants to start society slowly again in a responsible and safe way and to give them that freedom and openness that Mr Wilders and I both so strongly advocate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u50	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u51	Science is divided across all these sectors, both about starting up the economy and about education. I am glad that Mr Wilders is a little more nuanced in this answer than in his speech just now. In my view, we share the same question with the cabinet: give a perspective and make clear to sectors under which conditions protocols can be approved and you can start up again. Let us do this both for the catering industry and for all the other industries, but let us also continue to ask education how it can be done in a safe and responsible way. Because parents and teachers are doing their best to provide good online and home education, but there are children who are now potentially experiencing more educational disadvantages in the Netherlands because they cannot look their teacher in the eye and cannot learn and play together with classmates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u52	Sure. But once again, children meet and can infect each other if they wish, and then fortunately they rarely get sick themselves. But they can transfer it to their parents or caregivers at home. And that's just another thing. I think that at the moment when there is even the slightest or least doubt... We also saw it yesterday in the OMT recommendation. It says everywhere "it seems that" and "we expect that." There is no clarity. RIVM is also very careful about it. Then I think that you should not cross that doubt, but take it for granted and leave the schools closed. If the cabinet doesn't want to do that, you should at least say "I'm counting on your support, too," that all parents who find it too early should be able to leave their children at home without penalty. Madam President. Then when it comes to the catering industry, the second part of Mr Jetten's justified question. I think it should be speeded up in the hospitality industry and in other sectors. Of course it must also be justified there; I am not going to say here that it should be open now, without any condition. But it has to be faster. Those companies are on the brink of the abyss. Restaurant people say that if it lasts another month, 30% of the businesses go bankrupt. So if you can do that responsibly, please, start it! Don't wait till May 20th. If I can do it responsibly, I'd rather have them open in three days than three weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u53	Thank you. Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u54	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday's image was the image of a sighing Prime Minister in charge of devilish dilemmas. The pressure on his shoulders was palpable, and it is understandable. Luckily, the numbers on the ICUs are dropping. At the same time, we see a society and an economy that craves a little more breathing space. It's a diabolical dilemma. The virus is still among us and could strike again. It is with this virus a bit like in mountaineering: most accidents occur in the descent, not in the climb. The decision to restart primary education and childcare is a good step, but there are also many questions. Mr Wilders was just talking about that. Can parents who are in a high-risk group, for example, keep their children at home without getting the inspection on their roofs? And is there really sufficient testing capacity for the staff in education and childcare? Are we going to learn lessons from Denmark, where schools are already opening? Could this also have consequences for the timeline? For example, in the case of secondary education, 1 June is mentioned, but that is about as far as we are concerned when it comes to stopping shaking hands behind us. This shows how much is happening and is changing in this crisis in a very short time. But is there sufficient attention for students? Students have a lot of concerns about delay in their studies. Can the cabinet go into that? Over the last few days, there has been a lot of discussion about apps and how they can contribute to tracking and tracing. But can the ordinary artisan contact research, Mr Wilders, talk about this, but I saw Mr Asscher say something about it last weekend, and do not make a huge contribution to really getting a picture of where the problems are, so that you can start to deal with them? Germany has already recruited thousands of volunteers for this, but I do not read about this in the letter. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter with Mr Asscher in the second term. I think Mr Asscher was talking about Canada, and I see that it is happening in Germany. You can see that countries are already doing this, with a lot of volunteers. Shouldn't we start with that, too? A related question, which also played at the technical briefing this morning, is how that gap between the available test capacity and the number of tests taken can be explained. What's that in? Isn't it used? Is there bureaucracy? Is there any discussion about the money? Or could it also be that healthcare organisations have found alternative ways to test, which are not in these figures? That's what we were talking about last week. If that's the case, shouldn't we also have it in view in order to be able to track and track carefully? Mr Dijkhoff has just gone into the OMT in detail, which itself states that there must be a broader perspective and that other advisers must come up on this road, or indeed the descent. Following on from Mr Dijkhoff, I too would like to ask that question; the cabinet also touches on it in one sentence in his letter. What experts are being brought in and in what way? Can the cabinet outline how it sees this for the next few weeks, as the role of the OMT might be reduced? Over the last day, since the press conference, we have seen a great deal of despair among SMEs, for whom 20 May is very far away and the fear of going bankrupt is very great. Specifically for contact professions, we can see that there may already be more clarity next week about the use of alternative forms of oral protection, as Mr Dijkhoff has already mentioned. Do we really have to wait until 20 May for what can be done with it? Or can we do it faster if there's any clarity about it next week? Then there is the supplementary aid package. There were just a lot of interruptions with Mr Dijkhoff. Just before this debate began, I saw a letter coming in from Minister Koolmees following the previous debate. It says that additional demands are already being made on them, following a motion by my colleague, Mr Palland, on groups. They're about dividend. They're about bonuses. Is this a prelude to doing exactly what is being done in a second aid package and is it indeed looking at the lessons of countries such as Denmark that are already doing this kind of thing? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u55	Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u56	It has long been the rule in the Chamber: if the Party for Animals and the CDA find each other on something, then the debate is over and we don't have to talk about it anymore. So I'm gonna take a shot. These are really weird times. The poultry processing industry and the abattoirs support the call made by the Party for Animals weeks ago, namely that there should be breeding restrictions in livestock farming because the stalls are overcrowded and there are major problems. They also call for the suspension of imports of poultry meat to the European Union, for example. Well, if the abattoirs and the meat processing industry join the Party for Animals, you'd think the CDA couldn't be left behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u57	I didn't see that this is true. I will be happy to take it up and I would like to come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u58	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u59	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is taking a step forward with a cautious relaxation, and this can be supported by my group. The most important question now is: how do we get out of here as fast, strong, safe and responsible as possible? The first step is taken in education. That gives the necessary relief, if only because of the happy prospect of relieved parents, enthusiastic teachers who have missed their students and children who can see their friends again. A prospect which, of course, can only become a safe reality if schools and teachers can also agree on how in the coming weeks. We can only take new steps safely and responsibly, if we can test enough and resume contact research on a large scale. The cabinet is still working on a modest maximum capacity, but even the current capacity is still not being used for care personnel. Soon teachers will have to be tested as well. I'm only gonna ask you one more time. When is the time when the capacity is sufficient to test every Dutchman with complaints? How many tests is that and what is needed for that, as some colleagues have already asked? We will only get out of this crisis quickly if we support and gather open science. From social to technical, everyone can and wants to help. The question "how do we get out of here" includes more than just virology. That is why, following colleagues Dijkhoff and Heerma, I ask the cabinet whether besides the OMT there is not also a single central assembly site for innovative ideas from other scientific insights. Who connects, bundles and organizes? Mr. Chairman. We'll only get stronger out of the crisis if we make choices for the future now. That starts with the designers of that future themselves, the students. Teachers take everything out of the closet to avoid study delay. Of course, that's the most important thing. But study delay cannot always be avoided; think of practical exams, studies, internships and you name it. What can the cabinet do in the specific support and compensation for students who are lagging behind in their studies? Mr. Chairman. In addition to generic aid, targeted support to businesses will also be needed. It cannot be that companies continue to pay dividends or bonuses. Can the Prime Minister promise that, if the package is extended, we will demand it from all companies? Companies that are now being helped in bad times must also make a fairer contribution in good times. I therefore expect an ambitious cabinet response to the advice to tackle tax constructions, so that large companies pay more profit tax. I am considering a motion both in this area of conditions for business and in the area of student support. The aid that is now urgently needed to save jobs must be subject to conditions that will benefit the future. This also starts with companies with a large climate impact. Today is the fourth anniversary of the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement. Can the Cabinet therefore, as a birthday gift, undertake that it will set sustainable conditions for economic support to specific companies that pollute a lot? Finally, Mr President. The economic crisis we are experiencing in the Netherlands does not exist in a vacuum. For the survival of our economy, we depend on Europe. The strengthening of the European Union is therefore our greatest strategic interest. After the diplomatic isolation of the Netherlands, the cabinet now has a special responsibility to contribute to the future and the solutions at European level. A fiscally prudent Christian Democrat leads the way. Her name is Angela Merkel. A liberal in Europe will follow. His name is Emmanuel Macron. Is this, for the occasion I say, Christian-liberal cabinet from now on willing to work together with Merkel and Macron? What constructive proposal will the cabinet make to shape the announced innovative financial instruments? Does the government also look at direct financing of a wider European budget with an open eye, so that Dutch taxpayers are better off? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u60	I have a question for D66. The appeal to the cabinet to also take account of the need for sustainability in support is a matter of heart to me, but it is always a bit of a guess how hard D66 is going to make up for that. A motion by Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party, who has already spoken of this kind, has already been adopted. It's a little vague, and it'll back D66. Then we ask for concrete conditions, for example, for support for KLM and then D66 does not support it again. Does D66 stick to his point? What's that gonna prove? Can we table motions later that will support D66? Or is this another one of the gratuite calls from this party?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u61	The current, first, support package that the cabinet really created with steam and boiling water is aimed at protecting jobs and incomes so that workers do not suffer from this corona crisis. Now that we know that this corona crisis is going to take much longer, and that businesses are also going to resort to generic measures for longer, and also to specific measures, we have time to think about what conditions we attach to it. That's not paying dividends, buying up your own shares and so on, but also looking at where you can make sustainability requirements. I have said before in debates, like my colleague Jan Paternotte, that when it comes to aviation, there is now an opportunity for the whole of Europe to help make it more sustainable. At Schiphol Airport you should not give away all the space released to cheap airlines that only serve holiday destinations, but at Schiphol Airport you really have to protect the economic hub function. If KLM relies heavily on government support, make arrangements with KLM about how that fleet will be preserved in the coming years so that there is less impact on nature and climate and you also have less impact on the immediate surroundings of those airports. Those negotiations, those talks, are ongoing, and I assume that that Minister Hoekstra said that he also considers it important that conditions should be laid down as part of those talks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u62	Mr. Asscher. Isn't it? Yeah? Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u63	For the moment. A 500 billion aid package will be discussed tomorrow. We know more will be needed. There's been a big fight in Europe. Macron has said that this cabinet is putting European unity at risk, the Italian Prime Minister has joined and Sánchez was extremely critical. D66 has Europe and democracy at its highest priority, but that is more for Twitter today than for the debate. Because D66 has blocked three times a request to hold a separate debate on this, which could have been done in this Chamber. So now it has to be this way. I haven't asked the question yet. My question is whether Mr Jetten agrees with me that we should instruct this Prime Minister to set conditions for state aid in a European context, to set conditions for aid to companies, precisely in order to prevent tax avoidance, using the rules, from continuing at European level as many Europeans feel so vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u64	I think it is very sensible that we should also use the broad European support package in order to get stronger out of this crisis. There are conditions of sustainability that the European Green Deal of Commissioner Timmermans is really placed at the heart of the European economic support package. You can also see at European level how to tackle all kinds of tax practices that we are very unhappy with, including as a condition for business, as I have just advocated for the national aid package. Mr. Chairman. I would nevertheless like to respond to the start of Mr Asscher's interruption. I think this is the sixth Corona debate. I have called every corona debate for attention to the European component, so I am not going to let you talk me into doing the European component on Twitter alone. I do so consistently in every debate here, and I invite all colleagues to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u65	Thank you. No, you're done with your questions, Mr. Azarkan. Mr. Azarkan, you're not five feet away from where you stand. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks. Mr Wilders has a point of order and I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u66	Maybe someone has a pair of socks for Mr. Clover. He forgot to put socks on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u67	I am glad that, in the biggest crisis since the Second World War, Mr Wilders is still paying attention to the small human suffering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u68	It was a joke. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u69	I was joking, too, Mr. Chairman. The chairman's excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u70	Wow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u71	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was the press conference. We'd all been looking forward to it. We were hoping that the life we all loved so much would come back. We all understood that it wouldn't be much, but it's still disappointing somewhere. At the same time, we all understand what is going on. I have great admiration for the decision taken on education. That wasn't easy. That's surrounded by uncertainty. We don't know exactly. But it is still a good thing that we take that step. It does mean giving teachers all the support they need. We shouldn't ask them for the impossible. Not that they have to teach and teach in the classroom and that also digitally to the students who are not in school. It's gonna be too much. I'm assuming the cabinet is handling that well. Mr. Chairman. In the debates we are having, everyone wants that exit as soon as possible, but that is not so easy. We must beware of contradictions between economics and health. We need to be very practical about how we can get out of here as soon as possible. I do not want to talk about something big like 'the exit strategy', but about the implementation of all those things that we know are necessary to get out of here. I want to start testing. Quite a lot of compliments that the test capacity has gone up, but this is yet another debate in which we find that the full test capacity is not being used. I'm very concerned that the cabinet doesn't know exactly why. We need to understand precisely why the test capacity is not fully exploited and how we can ensure that it is done as quickly as possible. We know that to get out of here, we need to do contact research. News hours reported on this yesterday. This morning in the briefing, it was all about it. Apparently the GGD has not yet been ordered to scale up, to ensure that more people are available there to do that contact research. We've completely focused on that app. The Chamber also mentioned this. We've even filed motions on this. But the app is just a means. The goal is the contact investigation. Whether there's an app or not, you're gonna need a lot of people to do that. If we were in the Netherlands to do what they did in Germany, we would need 4,200 people, perhaps even more. That recruitment should have started a long time ago. I would like the promise that it will begin now, and also the planning that goes with it. The second point concerns protective equipment. That is also what every debate is about. Once again, I have forwarded all kinds of cases to the Minister. Yet I am not reassured about that again. We get a message from people who say very concretely: I had 100,000 mouth caps, but the Netherlands didn't want them and they're on their way to Austria now. I sent a message, and I'm getting it back: the certificates weren't okay. What I want to know is: were the certificates not okay or were the mouth caps not okay? Have they been tested? If the certificates weren't in order, did we do our best to get the certification in order? If these mouth caps can't be used in healthcare, did we wonder if they could be used if we wanted to open up the rest of the economy? There's no answer to all these questions. My concerns about that remain. If we want to get out of the crisis, we must also work together in Europe. I would like to call the beginning of this cabinet a bad one. We're fighting instead of working together. How is the cabinet going to choose a different attitude in Europe so that we can come out of this crisis together? Because the economic crisis that is coming towards us from Europe will be many times greater than the 2008 crisis. Then there is the support for large companies. We have already had the necessary exchange of views on this issue in the course of the inter-rupt debates. It must be absolutely clear that large companies cannot pay out bonuses, dividends, buy their own shares, that they have to contribute themselves. Companies that have benefited in the good times and have kept profits in their own pocket should not now, in bad times, take advantage of the citizens. Finally, in the last five seconds I have: we are talking about a lot of groups in this Parliament. One group we don't often talk about is students. They are slowing down their studies because of what is now in existence. What is the Cabinet going to do to compensate them too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u72	Mr Dijkhoff has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u73	Mr Klaver spoke in an interruption to me about green conditions. That's a little sticky. Can Mr Klaver make what he is thinking concrete?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u74	This is difficult because we do not yet know which companies have come forward. But Mr. Jetten said it in his...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u75	You're looking at him now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u76	I think it's really good to join people sometimes. Mr Jetten mentioned, for example, KLM. I believe that if we are going to save KLM and we are going to have a support package, we must set conditions for the sustainability of the fleet, to name one very concrete one. If there are other companies coming from the CO-intensive sectors, I think we should look at how we can also make demands on them so that we can make them more sustainable. The same applies to agriculture. We're working on solving the nitrogen crisis. If you turn to all kinds of support measures, I think it is right that you should also look at whether you can hit two birds with one stone and whether you can also solve the problems surrounding nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u77	Okay. Then I'll understand better. Then it is not a kind of generic sustainability test or requirement for a generic measure. Mr Klaver wanted to look at concrete companies to see if they could make some sort of green offer to see what could happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u78	Sure. And I wouldn't even want to. You can't say something like that in general. For this, companies and the type of measures you need to take are far too different. So you can't say, there's some kind of green test you have to go through. We were talking about catering companies that need support. That's not really the point. It's about big polluters and that you look very closely at these companies and say, okay, if there's government support, what's there to make more sustainable given the industry in which you operate, given how your business model works?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u79	Finally, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u80	Of course, I don't know if we'll agree on that, but I think it's good to specify this. Because if you put down a general principle, then a lot of entrepreneurs at home think that it will apply to them, too, that it is generic anyway. Now we are talking about large CO-intensive companies where you look very closely at what can be done. This means that the rest should not be afraid that, if they are knocking for help to keep their heads above water, there will be a whole range of demands. I think it's good to see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u81	In the whole approach to the climate crisis, my priority has never been to speed up the sustainability of catering companies. It's just about the big shots. Let me be very clear: I think it is also possible to look at the size of the companies in the approach to the conditions we set out, so that we are precisely the small businessmen I see how difficult they are to provide extra support with as little ballast as possible. But from the big boys and girls, we can really ask for something more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u82	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In one nursing home in Amsterdam 31 residents have now died of corona. 48 caregivers are infected, and one of them is in intensive care. The health department says that the nursing home actually did everything in its power to keep the virus out of the door as much as possible. But here too, it played a role in the fact that in the first weeks of the outbreak of the virus there were insufficient protective materials for the caregivers. Imagine the sadness of 31 families losing a father or a mother. But imagine the fear of those care workers. Every day they go to work with fear in their bodies, fear of getting infected themselves and fear of infecting the people you want to care for. I have immense respect for the work these people are doing right now. But I also think it's almost inhumane what we're asking of them. When we hear that the curve in the nursing homes is not flattened yet, as Van Dissel says it is, and when we hear from the CNV trade union that he is very concerned about care personnel becoming massively ill over the past month, there has been an increase of 40%, then my question to the Minister is: how does he look at the situation in the Dutch nursing homes? When I listen to the cabinet like that, I feel that in this time you should be a smartphone looking for an app rather than a health care provider looking for a mouth cap. I would like it so much if the enthusiasm and enthusiasm with which we are thinking about and working on that app would also be there for the start-up of the production of protective materials in our own country. The Prime Minister is getting angry now, I understand, Mr. President. He says, "You're crossing a border." But I think that every day we cross a line by asking those people to do their job without sufficient protective means. So the prime minister can get angry and yell, but I think we're crossing that line. That brings me to the testing capacity in the laboratories. For weeks now we have been asking why it is not possible to make full use of this test capacity. Labs tell us there's more room to test, but we can't. So my question is: how is that possible? Another question concerns the capacity of the GGD. Is that enough? That's what they've been asking for. How is it that there is no mandate at the GGD to make every effort to do large-scale contact research? Mr. Chairman. We have a lot of questions. The Prime Minister gets angry, but that may also be because we get the same things every week but too few answers. And not only the Chamber has questions; the media also has questions. The cabinet is currently saying that we must do it with 17 million people in this crisis. That is true, of course, but we in the Chamber must also be able to do our controlling work. Then it helps when we get answers to questions. Mr. Chairman. The schools are opening up again. Primary schools are opening up again. The kids are happy, and I think the parents are happy too. We are curious about the conditions for teachers. How are they involved? They are on the work floor, so they can also best estimate what is feasible and what is not. We also wonder how that will work out in relation to the test capacity. If it's barely working for the caregivers now, how are we going to test teachers? Finally, Mr President. We have rights and obligations in our country. We have the right to social security when it comes to less, and the duty to contribute according to capacity when things are getting better. Now there are companies that want to undermine organised solidarity in our country. Then you've come to the wrong place with us. I would therefore ask the Cabinet to be a little more explicit on what exactly the conditions will be for a subsequent support package. For example, does the cabinet agree that keeping your people properly in service, not giving out bonuses and not giving out to shareholders would be a minimum condition? And finally, can the Cabinet guarantee that if there are companies that put it in their bones to abuse such an arrangement, they will be forced to pay everything back to the last penny?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u84	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u85	Thank you, Mr President. People are currently experiencing the crisis in a very different way. Some people are sick or very worried about vulnerable people. Others are not sick themselves, but see their security of existence at risk because it continues. That also means that they looked at the press conference differently. I think it's true that the only way we can solve it is if we all do it together. I think it's true that it has to be one step at a time. But what you miss, and what a lot of people miss, is the perspective, the idea and the strategy for how we get out of here. Even if it takes a long time, we have to start describing to people how we're going to contain that virus better. That means more advice is needed. That has already been said by several people. The OMT and the doctors know a lot about the disease and the epidemic, but much less about behavior, economy and society. We are now entering into the political considerations. The cabinet must be open, transparent and showcase the models so that we can all decide on them. If you want to successfully fight the virus and get out of here again, then you need to be able to test. Then it is not enough to guarantee that all healthcare workers can be tested since 6 April. I asked the minister last week. On my Facebook page I have received thousands of comments. Some are very positive and enthusiastic, but a lot of reactions show that it just doesn't work out. That has all kinds of reasons, but it is a huge problem, because it makes people feel unsafe and they are afraid that they are infected themselves or that they infect others. Especially when schools are opened and it is promised that teachers and people who work in the nursery can be tested, that must be in order. Make it simple, I'll ask the cabinet. Let people go through the GP. Don't try to redesign a complicated system that makes people feel like they're not getting that test at all. That's essential. We're gonna ask those teachers to go back to work. They like to teach, but some feel like a guinea pig. That's why this has to be in order. You've got less than three weeks to settle that. It has already been said Chamberwide: don't put all your money on an app with an appathon, while you don't take the old-fashioned handiwork to recruit people, volunteers, to eventually do the contact research needed to map the virus. That has to be done as the weed goes. I asked for that last week. This really needs to be done as the weed goes. I think the message from the Chamber is clear on that. The WHO said it at the beginning of the crisis: testing, testing, testing, tracking and containment. Please, if you want to hobby with apps to support what needs to happen that's fine, but it can't replace what really needs to happen. Mr. Chairman. With the dramas in the nursing homes, I continue to feel uncomfortable. I may say a little more cautious than Mrs Marijnissen, but I do understand why she said that the scarcity of protective equipment is still in the way of what you would really like to do to protect people. This morning it was said: if someone is infected in a nursing home, then the people working in another ward of the same nursing home do not have to wear a mouth cap. I find that very strange when you know that there is the most vulgar group there and when you see that one infection is unfortunately followed very often by an incredible number of diseases and deaths. You'd have to change that, wouldn't you? We hear the same stories from carers with great worries. This is no longer actually a question of "these are the experts and we are following them." No, the experts here come in the position of covering up the policy, and then things don't go well, not even with democratic control. Finally. The next thing you need to know is perspective. If we show that we're all doing it, and if we're all helping the companies and keeping the jobs going, then we should also now say that you're asking for a fair contribution to the companies and the shareholders, and that you're letting them pay for it, so that it's not used to celebrate again later and not to pay for all those people in vital professions, who we're incredibly grateful to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u86	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u87	Madam President. We are at a stage of the corona crisis in which informed new choices need to be made. I would like to thank the cabinet for yesterday's decisions and yesterday's planned decisions on education and sport. So far, the health advice of the Outbreak Management Team has been leading the cabinet. It is understandable and right that so far health and the protection of vulnerable people have been the first priorities, as the Prime Minister emphasised at the press conference yesterday. But there will also have to be a broader balance in the coming period. Several colleagues have referred to this. There is health, but there is also quality of life. My mother is happy to be healthy, but the loneliness hurts her. And that last one counts, too. We can survive, but we also have to live together. And we also need an income to live at all. New choices naturally involve health, but also well-being, social relations, socio-economic consequences of measures and the different effects on different groups in different regions. Ultimately, the new broader considerations are ethical considerations, which need to be made politically and socially. I would therefore like to suggest to the Cabinet that, in addition to the Outbreak Management Team, it should also create a comprehensive "Impact Management Team," with, for example, the input of a behavioral scientist, a business economist, an ethicist, an advisor for international cooperation, a pedagogue, a psychologist. With both an OMT and an IMT, the cabinet is advised more widely, and can make a broader assessment in the phase that is now approaching. I'd like a response. Then there are a number of questions. The OMT advises against the preventive use of masks in nursing care outside the corona department. Meanwhile, nursing homes themselves take additional measures because there is a lot of unrest among staff and family. Would the cabinet like to take another look at that? Does it want to ensure proper protection and thus remove this unrest? It is good that it is advised to designate one or two people to visit them at home for vulnerable elderly people living at home. When does the Cabinet expect to be able to clarify a possible visit scheme for nursing homes and disability institutions? And when can pilots be started? The emotional distress there is high. Then there are vulnerable children and people with disabilities who depend on daily spending. They've been home for weeks now. Is the opening up of special education also likely to open up day-to-day spending? And can there also be a special transition strategy for people with disabilities? Then there's my fourth question. I'm gonna keep going to education. I'm glad kids can go back to school later. That news was received with joy in many families. But what does this mean for the workload of teachers, and for teachers or pupils with vulnerable family members? Now my fifth question. When are low-threshold tests available? And what is the Cabinet going to do to remove barriers to testing, and to fully exploit the available capacity? Mr Asscher has just spoken about this. And then six: the apps. This morning, Professor Marc de Vries of TU Delft warned about the impact. We must not lose the confidence that exists in the government's approach through a hasty process in which an app becomes a goal rather than a means. It's a good thing more time is being taken now. But can I ask the VWS Minister if he would like to ask the basic questions first, and that these questions are also addressed, such as: what exactly do we want; is this the best means, or are there other means; and what is the impact of the tool on our society? And is it also looking at what is less radical and in the short term already possible, such as home reporting or increasing the number of people that can reduce source and contact research? Seventhly, I agree with the questions that have been asked about conditions for the next economic aid package. Finally, Madam President, my eighth point: to continue to look specifically at specific groups, such as those in particular, and I would like to mention them again: the pgb-holders, the ggz, young people. We have the means of the generational test. Would that not be a means that we could use in this crisis, in a new aid package, to see very specifically what the impact will be for a next generation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u88	Thank you, Mr Segers. Now Mrs Ouwehand of the Group of the Party of Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u89	Thank you, Mr President. The Prime Minister said yesterday that this corona crisis is one of the greatest, most profound and most threatening periods any of us will ever experience. I think that's right. We saw him wrestling. We also heard the cabinet say: caution now is better than regret afterwards. We support that. We therefore support the caution with which the cabinet looks at possible relaxations, which we are all waiting for. We support the re-opening of schools, because for the Animal Party the interests of vulnerable children, who really need their school, weigh heavily, but we are concerned about how to do so. Education was already not flourishing with the workload there. So I ask the cabinet: what is the plan to ensure in the longer term that the people who have to teach can handle it? That is the same question the Party for Animals has about long-term care. We must ensure that the pressure on care is reduced and that the people who are now working so hard can recover and that all delayed care is taken up again, but if we know that the coronavirus will remain among us, should we not also invest in structurally more capacity for care for the long term? What are the cabinet's plans for that? Mr. Chairman. Sadly, the cabinet could not yet decide that there would be a wider visitation scheme for the people in nursing homes. We very much hope it will happen the moment it's in there. The loneliness there is terrible. Mr. Chairman. In situations where everything's turned upside down, things always stay the way they were. Usually people think that's a good hold: happy, not everything has changed. But in this case it was not very reassuring. There was a "there is no alternative" doctrine of the VWS minister about the app, knowing that government and ICT is just a bad marriage. That too has not changed in the past period. The headlines didn't lie: "Appathon with data breach," "Ministry clutters wrong with appathon." Fortunately, a motion by the Animal Party has been adopted asking the Cabinet to involve the experts, not only the privacy experts, but also behavioral scientists and the like, the people we heard in the hearing this morning. Do that, because it's unwise not to do that. I will come back to the question I asked earlier: what is the alternative? Don't put all your cards on an app, because the chance that they can come within all those conditions that we have to make of it is just not that big. The minister said: no, I'm not going to do that, we're not going to scale up the capacity of the GGD. But in Germany you can see that this works very successfully. So can the Minister move at this point? Because it remains very unwise to bet on an app whose real question is whether it will work. Mr. Chairman. Then there is support for companies. We are pleased to see that there will be more debate on this and that D66 will also be moving, but that must be made real, because this crisis is not the only crisis we are dealing with. There is a crisis with social justice. We're having a climate crisis. Conditions must be laid down for the aid granted to companies. Also for the support of the Dutch who have to deal with the economic consequences of this crisis, it is simply not possible to sell a company like Booking.com from the state treasury. Finally, Mr President, the animals. Thickly four weeks ago, the Party for Animals warned about the consequences for animals in livestock farming, for overcrowded stables. We have asked the Minister of Agriculture to intervene, but we have still not heard a word. Times aren't the way they were. Even the abattoirs now join the Party's argument for the Animals: intervene, come up with breeding restrictions, because this is getting out of hand. Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister said that the corona crisis is the biggest crisis we're going through. Earlier he said that about the nitrogen crisis: that was the biggest crisis in his career until then. We have to conclude that the two biggest crises of his career have everything to do with the way man treats nature and animals. That shouldn't just give thought. As far as we are concerned, this also obliges the Prime Minister to take up at last for all those animals in livestock farming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u90	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u91	Mr. Chairman. Today, above all, many questions from the 50PLUS Group. What does the Minister mean by the possibility that teachers can be tested easily? Isn't it better that every teacher who wants to get tested? Then the advice to parents who belong to a risk group. That is what the colleagues from the PVV and the CDA were talking about. Can they send their children safely to school? Where can they get advice? What guidelines are there for the escorts who support children up to 12 years of age in organized outdoor sports? How can municipalities ensure that parents who bring their children are not unnecessarily at risk? Moving is also of great importance for the elderly. 50PLUS has been hammering on that for a long time. Is the Minister prepared to pay attention to this group as well? First there was the message: no visit to vulnerable groups. Afterwards, a tight age limit of 70 years was applied. This morning it was suddenly lowered to 65 years. In the letter we read that one or two permanent persons may visit regularly. What is the directive now and why has it been amended so often? I'd like a response. The scale-up of deferred care should be structured and monitored. What's the communication to patients gonna look like? In addition to a certain diagnosis within the diagnosis there are further guidelines. It is not going well with the development of the number of tests carried out. Most of my colleagues have talked about it. On 31 March, the Minister wrote: in mid-April, capacity increased to 17,500 tests per day. Today, April 22, we read that the number of decreased tests is 7,000 a day. All this time we read that capacity can be increased to 2,900 tests per day, by applying extended working hours. But what has been done in the past few weeks? Why so hard? People want to be tested: teachers, police officers, detectives and carers. The capacity is available and yet it does not come off the ground. I'd like a response. Older people with corona are referred less to the ic. How does the Minister view this? I thought there was another promise. When does the Minister expect more clarity on the black schematic? How is the supply of pneumococcal vaccines insufficient for the whole target group? Is the Minister prepared to consider starting vaccination as soon as possible, not just this autumn? It is good to read that the 50PLUS motion is being implemented to include carers in the distribution model. Still, there may come a time when things aren't working out at home. Are there enough crisis areas? What criteria are applied and is the GP adequately equipped for this purpose? Is the Minister prepared to work actively to encourage alternative forms of daily spending? The Christian Union has already asked for this. I'm complimenting the National Care Class. Thank you for working so quickly on the implementation of my motion, but how quickly can these people be deployed? Is it true that the information campaign on the new donor law has been stopped? We're really worried about this. Finally, 50PLUS appreciates all initiatives that in a creative way demand attention for love for the elderly. On a special website, 50plusvandaag.nl, we collect these initiatives. I would like to pay tribute once again to all these initiatives. Only together will we get through this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u92	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u93	Madam President. A difficult struggle, a modest relaxation, that's what the cabinet presented. The SGP Group understands this cautious approach. Caution is needed if we are to protect vulnerable people. Caution is needed if we allow care workers to catch their breath. But it's still a struggle. Any relaxation means taking risks. I ask the cabinet whether it is always weighed independently where relaxation is possible. It must not be decisive who makes the most noise, so to speak. Mr. Chairman. Looking at the education, there are of course many parents and children happy that they can go back to school, that gently open at those doors. But some also find it exciting, teachers and parents. Understandable. We therefore call for tailor-made work. Give room to leave that vulnerable child at home or not to let that teacher go to work in a particular case. And make sure that enough tests are available for educators. Is testing guaranteed? That's a tough condition. Mr. Chairman. I told you, it's still a struggle. Then I'm also thinking about the e-mails and the calls about those strict visitation rules for nursing homes. It's getting tighter and tighter. Your mother with dementia asks, "Why don't you come anymore?" That's not gonna work out with a little video bells, no matter how valuable. Do we not sink through a bottom of humanity if we drag too long to break down the door of the nursing homes if we could do that responsibly again? That is a question that concerns us at this time. This is a cry of hearts I would like to say about this. I'm glad a pilot is being launched right now. My question is: is this also being speeded up in the preparation of a possible relaxation? Mr. Chairman. This morning, the apps were discussed in detail. It is a good thing that a pass is now being made, because there are still a lot of questions that need to be answered carefully. What exactly are we gonna gain? What do we lose with it? Does the cabinet share what Professor De Vries said this morning, namely that technology should not take away or replace the citizens' own responsibility, but rather support it? Is that something that's being tested? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister's message yesterday was: perseverance, patience, self-control. Values I recognize. But at the same time let's keep a close eye on how relief can come from growing tensions. Children can suffer from tensions between parents. We hear about additional demand for relationship and family support, but sometimes difficulties when it comes to costs. What are the possibilities of reducing financial thresholds for this? Can aid organisations such as the Own Force Centre be prevented from falling over by the corona crisis? Finally, Mr President. With all the difficult and sometimes impossible choices we face at this time, much wisdom is needed. If there was one person deeply permeated, it was my former colleague Koos van den Berg. Last night he escaped us, partly because of the illness we are talking about today. Then it gets very close. As a Member of Parliament, he has been doing his work here for sixteen years with great diligence and thoroughness, fully aware of his responsibility to do what he could. At the same time, he stressed that we can't manage alone, but depend on God's blessing. I would therefore like to quote him in this place, where he himself has been so many times. "After all, we do not rely on our own strength, we expect it only from the Lord and the power of the principle. Those who are aware of this leave no room for defeatism and doom. Then there is perspective because we know that the decisions are not made by people in the last instance, so not in The Hague either." Mr. Chairman. We have been struck by his death, praying for strength for his wife, children and further family, but it comforts us to know that he may be with the Lord God, of whom he has also testified so richly in this parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u94	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. It's a sad message. That's what you told me this morning. I wish the family, but also the SGP very much strength in processing this loss. We will, of course, come back to this later. Lots of good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The freedom of one person must not be at the expense of the other's health. That was a fair statement yesterday by the Prime Minister, because we must do everything we can to protect the vulnerable. The opposite is true: one person's health requires a sacrifice from the other. And the Netherlands has made that sacrifice massively. For weeks Dutch people have changed their behavior: companies lie flat, they keep distance, they can't visit grandpa and grandma and they're mostly at home. They have followed all the guidelines of the Rutte/Van Dissel I cabinet to reduce the spread of the virus and reduce the pressure on care. And successfully, because less than three weeks ago we were sitting here discussing what would happen if we entered the black screenplay of 2,400 people on the ic. And we saw this morning that it looks like we're going back to the 700 right after May 1st. An immense achievement. Not only to the people in the care, but to all Dutch: compliments! Many of those Dutch had therefore also hoped for more measures to increase this freedom, to make companies operate with measures and to make society breathe more. And it is mentally difficult that outside the schools let open and allow sports by children, all measures are extended until May 20th. This is hard on all those elderly people in the nursing homes who live in a hard-hitting isolation, because they cannot receive visitors. What's the point of adding days to life if you don't add life to the days? Why not, as in France, allow these elderly people to see their children under strict conditions? Is the pilots advised by the OMT to allow visits to elderly people in the Netherlands to begin soon? Mr. Chairman. The extension of the measures also hit hard on all those catering companies and people with contact professions. It did not become clear to me this morning whether the current package of measures is now in place until 19 May. Is there perhaps a possibility that, depending on developments, we will be able to relax before then? Can the government clarify this to entrepreneurs? What is the government going to offer the entrepreneurs for additional support in the near future? When are we going to hear more about this and when are we going to have a debate on this? Mr. Chairman. Then something about the masks. How can it be that there is still no clarity or masks in the opinion of the Dutch Government or not? I have the impression that we have been using mouth caps for decades, but that we are now investigating whether they are useful, whereas in countries such as Belgium, Germany, the Czech Republic and many other countries, mouth caps are recommended or even mandatory. Why don't we do that in the Netherlands? Can the government promise that next week, when the Dutch research into mouth caps is in place, we will see if we can relax again? Mr. Chairman. Then the corona app. I think that Minister De Jonge deserves a real compliment here, a compliment for the transparency with which he organised this tender. I think it is good that he concluded that the programme of demands was incomplete, that the objective was not clear and that there was too one-sided a technical view. We are also pleased that the Minister has finally realized that it is not just an app but a social change that is deeply affecting the lives of the Dutch. It is also a good thing that the Minister, with his knowledge of the present situation, is going back to the drawing board to take the new considerations and work on source protection in order to actually find out what the right means for the purpose is. It's a good thing he doesn't assume that this is the only thing that helps. The hasty approach to the app is, Mr President, in stark contrast to still not scaling up the number of people doing source and contact research, something that is happening in other countries. When is it finally going to be scaled up? Finally, Mr President. There are still 3,000 Dutch trapped in Morocco. I've drawn attention to that before. How can people who want to return to their homes and their families be used as a pawn in a diplomatic joust between two countries? Does the Dutch government do everything in its power to get these people back and when can all the Dutch who are stuck return to the Netherlands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u96	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u97	Mr. Chairman. Today, De Telegraaf reported that a bankruptcy analyst predicted that 150,000 bankruptcies would fall in the Netherlands this year. The measures that have been announced are perhaps going to bring a little relief for families, perhaps bring a little relief in the course of May, but that is not enough for entrepreneurs. We have put forward a plan with all kinds of concrete proposals to apply much more customization and to offer much more space for entrepreneurs, catering companies, but also all kinds of services. The hairdressers have already been mentioned and all kinds of other things. It's possible. I would very much like to hear from the cabinet how all kinds of possibilities are being created for this by 20 May. This is necessary for the Netherlands. In this whole crisis, a terrible crisis, of course, the cabinet has moved too late at every stage. Too late with preparations; no preparations. Once the outbreak was here, too late to issue the lockdown, which has given us far more unnecessary victims than there had to have been. Too late ordering tests, too late ordering mouth caps, so we still can't do all those tests that other countries can do, much more tests so you know much more. And now we are threatening to be late again, with the coordinated opening of society through a coordinated exit strategy, with a phase in which we come out of the lockdown controlled. I am very worried about that. I would very much like concrete commitments from the cabinet. We have a number of motions on this subject that we will table in the second term. Then tomorrow, the Eurobonds. That point is on the agenda of the European Council. There has been no separate debate, but I am going to make a motion on this in my second term. I think it is necessary for us to say something about this, because that can and must never happen. The Netherlands should never agree to this. 92 million in EU money to Armenia, 87 million to Moldova. 190 million to Ukraine, 60 million to Belarus and only 25 million to the Netherlands. That is not the eurobond, but those are the other subsidies. An explanation from the cabinet is also available there. And what else is going on? What rules, agreements and measures are being cycled through while the whole country is working on that coronalock down, on the corona crisis? 5 billion for nitrogen measures for the coming period? Five billion? Where did that come from? And the message that WOB requests are not being handled, but are being postponed. I would also like a response from the cabinet. A coal power plant closed or less energy generation in three coal power plants? We have not been able to debate this either. We have also discussed the negotiations on the accession of Albania and northern Macedonia. Meanwhile, not to mention, the right of demonstration has been suspended. So we can't even face protest from society either. We cannot, in any way, let ourselves be heard outside this Chamber, when we all know that this is an essential part of democracy. To be honest, I am surprised that this is still so docile and so friendlyly accepted in the Netherlands. I come to my conclusion. The cabinet needs to come up with very concrete measures, very concrete commitments about how many people are going to be tested, how we are going to get out of the lockdown and how we are going to get the kick-start of the economy. Because we must at all costs prevent these 150 000 entrepreneurs from going bankrupt. We must not let that happen while Eurobonds and other measures are riding through it. Transfer of power to Brussels, money that we have all brought in, road bikes to other countries: under no circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday I received answers to my written questions of 30 March. I thank the Minister for this. However, not all questions have been fully answered. For the speed of reply, the Minister may be able to give me some explanation. For example, I had asked for all OMT opinions from number 45 to number 57. The Minister's answer is twofold: the OMT opinions 45 to 55 are non-corona-related and numbers 56 and 57 were already known to the Chamber. These two documents were known to me, however, they were not numbered. OMT Opinion No 56 concerns a meeting convened by RIVM on 24 January, the day the first European corona contamination is reported in France. Number 57 is about the OMT meeting on 27 February, the day of the first Dutch contagion. In between there are forty-four days. Meanwhile, the virus had landed in Germany, Italy, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark and finally in the Netherlands. I have asked for all numbered and unnumbered reports and opinions, in the broadest sense of the word, but I only get two documents. I do not expect the answer that it is too busy right now, as the journalists who are submitting WOB requests hear. On the basis of these two documents, we must carry out our monitoring task. What happened in the intervening period, i.e. between 24 January and 27 February? Mr Van Dissel said this afternoon that RIVM did not advise the cabinet outside the OMT, so my question to the Minister is who advised the cabinet at that time. Who were the experts? Can the Court still receive all these opinions and correspondence about them, in the broadest sense of the word? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u100	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u101	Mr. Chairman. Last week I asked if it was not time to broaden the perspective by adding other experts to the crisis team: economists, lawyers and, for example, engineers. Does the Minister now agree with me that it would be better to define the exit strategy? I also said that we need to come up with smart solutions within the gross, generic measures taken by this cabinet. That suggestion was dismissed. In fact, the Prime Minister pretended that tennis was more important than coronados. As far as I'm concerned, this was wrong. My question was precisely whether certain obvious exceptions could be made within the limits set by the cabinet. That you can't wrestle, I get it, but tennis or golf is fine. And why do you get to look at a drill in a hardware store, but not a painting in a museum? No one understands these contradictions anymore. Mr. Chairman. This crisis is no longer just a health crisis. It is also an economic crisis, a cultural crisis, a social crisis and a crisis in the sporting world. The blood runs through the streets, companies go bankrupt massively, but this cabinet is stuck in the medical perspective. The question arises as to what perspective will ultimately lead to more deaths. The cabinet began with false information, with the abjectness of intensive testing and the denial of the operation of mouth caps. We are now hoping for absolution through an app, not to mention the over-delays caused by the delayed and delayed care and the much too slow restart of the economy. Why do we put time and money into an app that according to the experts is not going to work and no longer in tests, mouth caps and other smart ways to lift the lockdown? Mr. Chairman. In this crisis, we are now being led by risk-avoidants. People who are not used to analysing risks and taking well-balanced decisions on them and who do not feel the consequences of their decisions either. People who just get their pay back at the end of this month. How different is that for an entrepreneur who has worked hard on his own account and risk and now loses everything, because the government keeps everything locked for a month longer. If we continue to see the medical perspective as the only perspective, I foresee an implosion of a large part of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u102	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for one hour, until 6.20 p.m. That includes the suspension the cabinet needs and the dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u103	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u104	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would also like to mention the death of Koos van den Berg. He was indeed sixteen years of MP for the SGP and of course for the Netherlands, but as a member of the SGP here in the Lower House. Afterwards, he was still active, including in an important investigation that took place into all kinds of allegations about what would have happened in Afghanistan. We all miss him, but another place is enriched with him, we can say with each other. Anyone close to him, in his party, family, friends, I wish him every success. Mr. Chairman. The discussion we are having today is taking place against the background that, of course, we would all want so much more when there would be more room to make things possible, but that space is still minimal. It is minimal, because at the moment almost the entire normal ic capacity is occupied. It's running a little bit backwards by now. I thought there were around 1,000 or something about the 1,000 people with corona in intensive care today. That was about 250, 300 more two weeks ago. The intensive cares and hospitals are still very heavily burdened. We want to start the process slowly to enable surgery for people who also need ic; think of people with severe cancer. You can't put it off indefinitely. It leads to enormous risks if we wait too long to do so. To anyone who thinks 'we're over that point anyway, open things up and get the economy going again', I say: I would like that too, we would all like that, but of course there are the first risks. That is why health care and its capacity at this stage must be a guiding factor for what we are doing. There's no other way. Another point is the scarcity of public transport and public space. That also needs to be looked at very carefully. In my reply, I would like to say a few things about the idea of giving more sectors room for manoeuvre, but also about the idea of involving experts in this matter. I shall come back to that in a moment, but against the background of the unfortunately very limited space. This limited space means that entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, indeed in the hospitality industry but also in what is so businesslike the contact professions, i.e. the hairdresser and the nail studio, but also gyms and other sectors that are not open at the moment, are still unable to open. That affects these companies and the people who work there tremendously. You see a lot of creativity there, too. That's incredibly admirable. You can gradually get from a fries war from the snack bar around the corner to an exclusive dinner from a star restaurant delivered or picked up at home. So there is a lot of innovation, but of course that is not an alternative to the normal turnover they make in these sectors. This means enormous damage for entrepreneurs and their staff. We all realize that. After last night, I was accused of paying too little attention to this in my TV speech. I blame myself for that, too. I could have said a little more about it, but I've been talking for 20 minutes last night. I'd like to have said it here again. For me, this is top of the line: entrepreneurs and people who are employed by these companies who are currently in a very difficult situation. Before I come to Mr Wilders, I come to a second aspect that we must also realise. The entrepreneurs and their staff in all these sectors are eager to get back to work, which we all want to make as soon as possible as possible. A second aspect is the people who are now at home. Of course, this affects a lot of people, but in particular the families where vulnerable situations are going on. Let us not forget that; I do not need to explain this: the families that are concerned about domestic violence, worry about what it means for children who grow up in families where the home situation is very problematic. In these situations, too, the fact that the opinion must be "stay at home as much as possible, work as much as possible at home" obviously means a lot. Then there's the entrepreneurs. I was at the Grote Markt this afternoon to check out my favorite cafes, where I like to read my newspapers on weekends and sometimes walk by during the week. That's where the staff are now painting the terrace chairs. Beautiful, but you can't have your staff paint and redecorate patio chairs for endless months and get the café cleaned up. That's gonna stop one day. We are also concerned about what is happening at the moment in people's homes where the situation is particularly difficult, who now cannot use the public space to do "pfff" and say: okay, we're not at home for a while and we can just relax outside. That's what some people need. I really want that said here. It also sounds through in all the contributions of the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. That's what I wanted to say as an introduction. I'll get to the questions in a minute. But perhaps this is a good time for Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u105	Yes. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u106	I can hear what the Prime Minister is saying. What can't be, however annoying, can't be, but I do think that was a bit of the essence of my story that the Netherlands craves a perspective. People crave that you take them and say: well, it may not be possible now, but then and then, maybe not with a precise date, you can. "I say to you that if you do, as most Dutch people do, keep to the rules, most Dutch people do, most companies do, most families do. I, as Prime Minister of the Netherlands, say: if this and this happens..." The Prime Minister does, in the sense that he says "ic capacity" and "the vulnerable groups," but give them some perspective. The Netherlands craves perspective. People very much want their creativity to "reward" is perhaps not the good word "reward" at some point leads to something, that activity is coming again and that freedom is coming again. If you're going to outline that perspective, I think it's a lot more acceptable for a lot of people than it is for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u107	Yeah, once. I would like to do the same, and I will try again to do so, because Mr Wilders is right. But it is not easy, because in the end we are dealing with a virus that, if we don't keep a distance of 1.5 meters and one of us has it, can jump over and cause serious damage to the other at that time. Maybe it's not that bad, but in a lot of cases, there's serious damage. We are currently seeing an enormous "over-death rate" in the terrible jargon of statistics. A lot more people are dying than normal, and that's because of that virus. So it's literally life-threatening. The risk of letting things go too fast is that it jumps over again, that the weather is going to wave through society. I agree with Mr Wilders. If we all stick to these measures, stay home as much as possible, work as much as possible at home, keep a distance of 1.5 meters, wash hands, stay at home in case of colds and if it gets worse, keep the whole family at home in case of distress and/or fever if we do all of that we have done most of the time over the last few weeks, we can gradually do more. That's what we expect. Quite frankly, you can only give a perspective of three weeks each. I'm going to say that those three weeks aren't sacred. If things are possible sooner, we will do things sooner, but we wanted to say yesterday at least: in three weeks' time a decision will be taken on how things will proceed in four weeks, on 19 or 20 May. And of course, if we can do it sooner, we'll do it sooner. We're all in control of that. That's true, too. You can see it getting more crowded on the street right now. That doesn't have to be bad when people on the street keep a distance of 1.5 meters and so on, but there is also a real risk. Because the chance of bumping into each other is also increasing, allowing the virus to be transmitted faster again. You can now see that Singapore is going wrong again. You can see that further measures have been taken in Beijing. So as long as the vaccine isn't there, it's not possible to return to normal. The new normal is, the 1.5 meters, but that can only be done step by step. And now that that virus would break out again at a level like in March, our hospitals absolutely can't handle it, absolutely not, and then you can forget that people can still go for cancer surgery. Then the question is whether people who have to use a lung machine can go there at all. You saw it today in Van Dissel's figures, how many people would have been on the ice if we hadn't taken the measures. So in short, I agree 100% with Wilders. We need to outline that perspective with each other. As we can hold on to the solidarity that we have with each other in order to stick to the measures, you can make it more and more possible every two or three weeks, that is my hope and expectation, but I cannot promise. But then we have to. It's those two sides of the coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u108	I can go along with the Prime Minister for quite a bit. Whatever you're saying is helping. I didn't hear that yesterday, but well, that can happen. Suppose next week it appears that the figures are moving in the right direction and people are sticking to the measures. Then perhaps we could help not only the contact professions, but also the catering entrepreneurs who can operate a terrace within 1.5 metres or ensure that people get their food and drink. It's just an example, but if you can't do that in three weeks, but in four, five or six days, or in a week or two weeks, I'll be in the Chamber before 20 May.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u109	I have to do it very precisely. In the contact professions, the specific problem is whether or not to work with mouth caps. This needs to be looked at as closely by experts. I hope we can give more information by 19 or 20 May. No guarantees. It's more complicated for the catering industry. Why is that more complicated? Look, those protocols are really good. It's not like the government's gonna approve a protocol. Such a protocol is made. This is what the sectors themselves need, because it is their way of complying with the 1.5 metres and hygiene requirements. We're not going to approve them, we're going to encourage them to get there. Eventually, they have to stick to the main rules. Suppose the restaurants and cafés are now opening, while we are already making a number of extensions now, with risks. There are always risks. Any enlargement will lead to a slight increase in disease. That's inevitable. There are no possible extensions where there are no more infections. There will always be limited contaminations if you expand something here and there. You don't know exactly what yesterday's extensions are going to do in two to three weeks. That's the normal delay. There's one thing you can be sure of at catering. That means a lot more people on the street. They go to the terraces, with the risk of colliding in the small alleys. I'll get to the thought of how to get behavioral experts to watch. But I do not want to give the impression here that for the catering industry it is very likely that you will be able to clarify things before 19 May. The honest story is that I don't expect that. That's also what's tight in yesterday's advices. I really support that one, too. Unfortunately. But it does help that people have prepared themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u110	Finally, on this point. I don't want to compare the catering industry with nursing homes, because that's totally incomparable. Yet, at the nursing homes, you say that the visit of family members to the elderly is not yet possible, but we are going to experiment in certain places with so-called pilots. Of course, you could do the same in other sectors. Maybe you're right that that leads to congestion and people encountering each other. Maybe not. I believe that grown-up people are following the measures. You could also say: like the nursing homes, I'm going to go to the hospitality or other sectors to see how that works. Not all over the country, but in many places. Look how that works out. If that works out well, you can get on with it sooner. If that doesn't work out well, yes, then I also understand that the road is going the other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u111	My struggle yesterday, to which I tried to express, because I felt it and I think I shouldn't hide it, wasn't so much on the point that we could do so little. To be honest, it was mainly on the point that I am already anxious about the enlargements that we are now making. I am already concerned about what we do with education or what we do with sport for young people. Doesn't that just lead to more moves? Parents taking kids to school. Young people going to a sports field. Of course, between 12 and 18 you run more risk of transmission of the virus than under 12. What does that mean for possible increases in numbers? Seriously, right now, people are sitting at home waiting for a place on the ic for cancer surgery. At least that cancer surgery can't happen until that Ic place is there. That's just a fact. Against this background, I would really like to be reluctant to give the impression here that something is possible for the catering industry in the near future. As soon as possible, immediately. If there's anyone in this country who's a major user of that sector, it's me. But really, only when it's possible. And then, of course, I'll just do coffee. But not until you can. Because if we do it sooner, my unlikely fear is that we're doing something very irresponsible. You see what happens in other countries now if you do it too fast. This leads to the re-establishment of measures. That's not even the worst part. The worst thing is for those fantastic people in hospitals, who have already suffered so much, and also the people who need to take advantage of the care. I also mention the many delayed operations, for which the risk is even greater that there is no capacity for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u112	Finally, Mr President. Of course, no one wants that. I don't want to. You don't want that. No one wants the ic's to get in trouble like that, but my specific question was next. Can you not, like the nursing homes, in some sectors without opening it up to everyone? I understand that you do not want to do so now as a kind of test case in regions or in a few cases try what a certain extension means? Once again, you do so in other sectors. If that goes well, let's move on. We can do that in the short term. Then we'll see what the results are. If that goes bad, we won't do it. Then you also give perspective to a sector. Now we are still talking about the catering industry, but of course we are also talking about other sectors. Then you give perspective. Then you say: we are going to try it in a pilot in two or three places in the Netherlands. After a week or two, we'll see if we can do that, and then we'll see if we can move on or not. That's perspective. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u113	If there are possibilities, yes, but for the catering industry, the honest answer is to my mind that even pilots are currently unlikely in the next few weeks. But I suck up all the suggestions like a sponge, so I'm not gonna say yes or no. If Mr Wilders were to force me now, I would say no. He doesn't force me, so I suck up all the suggestions like a sponge, but especially at the catering industry there is the risk of many large movements across the street. That will have to be done at some point. We cannot keep the catering industry closed for a very long time, of course, with all the economic and social consequences. But looking at it at the moment, we can only expand there when we see that the pressure on care is really much lower than it is at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u114	Only further relaxation if it is possible to do so safely and responsibly; that is the Prime Minister's rightful warning. But where much of the disappointment comes from entrepreneurs, at least, those are the signals that reach me: they heard from the cabinet a few weeks ago: we are thinking about this one-and-a-half-metre society; you are going to make protocols. Many sectors have done so with great enthusiasm. They presented and submitted these protocols and thought: after that press conference of late April, I can open up my company again. We now hear the Prime Minister say: we as a government are not going to approve these protocols at all. In this debate, could the Prime Minister outline how this trade-off is being made, when you get approval to reopen your business and let customers back in? Is there a difference between different sectors? Then where are you supposed to get your check mark for your protocol? Et cetera. Just to color that perspective a little more so entrepreneurs know what to think about in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u115	No, you shouldn't. There are a lot of sectors that at the moment can just be open but closed themselves, for example dentists and dental hygienists but also shops. This afternoon on my way to my favourite square in The Hague, to my terrace to see how things are going, I walked through the Hoogstraat here and a lot of shops are closed there. It wouldn't have to be on its own. I'm sneaking in there... I am of course in two minds at that point, because I also think: as more shops are closed, there is also less traffic in the Hoogstraat and fewer people collide, while those figures are still so high. But strictly speaking, those stores don't have to close. They do so because there are so few people on the streets that they don't actually have a turnover or because they think that for their type of shop, they think that certain retail shops are too risky. For the A sectors which may be open but not open, they should be allowed to open but they should comply with those 1.5 meters, hygiene requirements and so on. They've made protocols, too. Again, we are not going to approve them. We can't do that at all. Moreover, as with the arbo, you would not only answer the what-need, namely 1.5 meters and hygiene, but then you would also fill out the whole how-need. That's exactly what went wrong at the arbo. This has led to this huge bureaucracy behind the general rules of procedure. That's the last thing we want here. But as a sector, you need them, because it helps you think about how to set up your business. Of course, this also applies to the catering industry, but it is not the case that, if it is there then, the cinema, for example, can open. It's a separate consideration if you can. At the moment this is not possible because it simply leads to too much pressure against the background of over-burdening health care. Other things are also involved, such as the protection of the elderly and the understanding of the spread of the virus, eh; the three anchor points we use.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u116	A check to see if I understand the Prime Minister correctly. So there are a number of sectors that have actually been voluntarily closed for all kinds of reasons. They can use a protocol to think for themselves about how to re-open responsibly. There are also a number of sectors that have been requested by the Cabinet to close, including catering, theatres and cinemas. They can only be opened as soon as you give permission to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u117	That's right. Then, of course, it will help enormously. It is not the case that we then approve the protocol first and it is important that they have thought about how they do it. Actually, that's the story. That's all a mess. Let me turn it around; I wanted to start with education, but first let me continue with the sectors. There was a question from Mr Dijkhoff about the catering sector. I want to promise you that we're gonna sit down with the sector. The whole point is, of course, that this sector also uses a lot of measures that are there in a general sense. But there are also specific things. I heard that very well. So we, as a cabinet, are going to organise a discussion with the catering sector to see if there are any specific things that we might be able to help in, also in the context of the design of the measures that exist today. So I'm making that commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u118	That's a good start, I'd say. I understand that we cannot anticipate what comes out of such a conversation, but I do want to push it a little harder, because the current rules that are there in general seem to be just as often inadequate in the catering industry. If the month on which your sales are based is January, it's the wrong month. We can also foresee that it will take some time before the catering industry can fully open up again. After this first period, therefore, aid will be needed specifically for the catering industry. I would therefore ask you not to rule out the possibility that this conversation will also lead to a scaling-up of this conversation and a specific sector package for the catering industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u119	I make a promise that we will be open to that. There is also the fact that we are looking at a seasonal arrangement separately. A special group within the seasonal scheme are those sectors that work hard but earn nothing. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dat zijn de sierteelt, de boomkwekerij en de aardappelteelt gericht op patatjes maken, want zij moeten het allemaal van het land halen, maar ze kunnen het niet verkopen.]] There's already an arrangement for that. We are now looking more broadly in the seasonal sector at, for example, the beach tentholders and the recreation sector. That affects part of Mr Klaver's point, I am sorry, of Mr Dijkhoff's, I am now going to confuse names; that is because of the green package............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ But that doesn't exactly touch his question. We are therefore open to this. We don't rule out the need for more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u120	That's nice. I think that comes from the fact that it is necessary, but that is what these people can support themselves and indicate in that conversation. Another element that also belongs in that conversation is the following. I was listening to the interruptions, and I think we're actually gonna get some sort of catch 22 with those protocols for the catering industry. Because how should a scientist or anyone should advise on it, now know the impact of what is happening in the catering industry? We never tested that. If you're gonna do it in person and say to three companies "go do it," as Mr Wilders asks, then maybe everyone's gonna storm at that one beach tent. That's not representative either. I understand that, too. But you're gonna have to offer an opportunity to run some kind of simulation of those protocols. Include, for example, a university. Then we see what impact that has on the spread. Otherwise, we'll have a protocol right away, and the advisors will say, yes, nice protocol, but this has never been tried. So we don't know what the impact is, and as a precaution we stay close longer than necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u121	That is why I will come back to the more general point of how you deal with the use of the specific expertise. The protocols ensure that the 1.5 meter is maintained as well as possible on the terrace or in the café. That's going to be in a lot of bars, the pubs that are pipes, by the way, another huge job. So that hasn't just been arranged. The catering sector itself has already reported how complicated that can be. But sometimes it's possible. Luckily, we can do it all the time. Apart from that, you have the whole question of the two scarce points, public space and public transport. That is not specifically a catering problem, but you know that when you open a sector there will be more crowds, more pressure on the public space and more pressure on the public space, with the risk of colliding. That's why I'm reluctant about the idea of testing. Indeed, you will see if that particular company has managed well, but you still have that problem of public space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u122	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u123	I've gotta count interruptions and shit now. I'm not very good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u124	Yes. This is your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u125	Exactly, my third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u126	So that's one interruption with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u127	Yeah, I'm sorry. Be careful, or I'm gonna feel sorry for the opposition when it comes to the answer. Anyway, I get that. We may not be able to do tests in real life, where you say "go open in that county" or "open those bars." You can't use the pace of a normal scientific experiment, but if we don't do any kind of experiment to see how it works out, the one who has to deliver an opinion is also rather limited. So I will not say that we should do tests in the sense of "we'll open up and then we'll see, and then we'll see if more people check in at the hospital." But we do need to look at how certain ways of dealing with it lead or not to spreading. I mean, there's got to be some kind of test setup for that, right? So not in real life, but it's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u128	That's very imaginable. I'm not against that. I'm also sponsoring this suggestion. I'd like to think about it. I also want to prevent the catering industry from being the only one to be seen as a cause of traffic on the street, because then they are the last to open and you don't want to. Coincidentally we now link catering to scarce space, so to the use of roads and alleys, but that is not fair either. Of course, it's not just the catering industry. Sectors that are already open, the government itself, hospitals and so on are also taking up space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u129	Perhaps precisely because the examples come from the catering industry a lot, I would like to come back to my question. Is there ultimately also an objective view of what can be opened again and where more people can possibly be admitted? I'm thinking, like, funerals. There is also pain because you can only be with a limited number of people. Does the Prime Minister understand my point? If we focus very much on one point where more space is needed, it can be at the expense of other things. Is there therefore sufficient consideration for interests or values that are not so noisy in the picture?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u130	Absolutely. Absolutely. I think we all care about that. We can think of a lot more things, but that certainly applies to things like funerals and marriages. But I keep starting every answer with: people, right now that space isn't there. I can't stop saying that. I'm afraid we're talking very enthusiastically about how to divide up scarce space, but at the moment there's no more scarce space to divide up than we did yesterday. There really isn't any room. I can't stop saying that. Then I understand the question of how you're gonna do it if that space is there. That is how I understand this debate too, if we all feel that this is so important, even to the Netherlands, that unfortunately that space is not there now. Stay home as much as you can. Work at home as much as possible. The virus is among us. The hospitals are overloaded, still.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u131	Here it is avenged that these considerations can no longer be made by the OMT. The choice of how to use that scarce space is a social, economic and political consideration. Last week I asked: "Share that. Bring in experts. Show me how to make these considerations." Now we're back here. It is quite right to point out that sectors are narrow and call for priority. We hear ornamental farming, but there may be quieter sectors or sectors with less lobby that are just as tight. This can't be happening. We're in a political balance. You can't keep referring to the experts if those experts are happy! Only know about an epidemic. So I ask the Prime Minister two things: for the next time show us how to make that assessment and who is involved and make a new plan for economic support now that we are in a new phase. Face it, there are many companies that are not being helped. Think of the people with a carnival business. That is a whole group covered by Dijkhoff's description and which has not been helped in the current scheme. That could not be otherwise because of the haste, but now make an extensive economic plan and bring that social analysis here in the debate. Otherwise, it undermines confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u132	I think we're gonna agree eventually, but I'm gonna complicate it first. We're working for the season workers. I am referring to seasonal workers outside the sectors that have already been covered. We're working on the flex workers. Something or something has already come out of the cabinet for both. Koolmeis is currently working on this in a troika with Wiebes and Hoekstra. Today, I thought, something has been brought out about the groups and subsidiaries. So that's that piece. That is what the cabinet does, and we really cannot wait for expert advice and assessment frameworks, because then it will get stuck. What Asscher, I think, is absolutely right about was also his point last week, and I also reflected on it at that time, the question is how to organise expertise on various points. I wanted to deal with that in a separate block, but I'm going to get it right now, because it actually fits in very well with this discussion. Asscher rightly mentioned the scarce space, the scarce space and things like working at home or working in the office. If at some point the advice "work at home as much as possible" is no longer required, you still need companies to think about who can work at home and who can work in the office and whether you can alternate. In a subsequent phase, that may be the case. Then there is the whole question of enforcement and all that. What I want to warn you about when I hear the contributions from the Chamber is this. It seems wrong to me to have a kind of economic club next to the OMT at the same level as it was. I think that's wrong. You have to look from the spread of the virus at what is possible of space. Against that background, you should then consider how best to organise that. What have we done so far? We do use a lot of expertise from the SCP, the CPB and all known abbreviations and good people behind them, as well as the fields of activity of the ministries. Meanwhile there is also a think tank formed by Mariëtte Hamer, the SER president. It has brought together all the knowledge institutes: the CPB, DNB, the SCP, the CBS, the WRR, all kinds of other councils such as Clingendael and the Education Council, Crown members, social partners, to think about the economic and social consequences, also involving the departments. What I actually want to ask... I hear very well what Mr Asscher is saying, and I think we also agree not to force me to say today that it will be a committee that, like the OMT, advises the cabinet in parallel. I would find that really unwise, even in time. The OMT looks at what medical can do, and then you have to make all the other considerations against that background, including the use of scarce space. I actually want to come back to the Chamber as soon as possible with how we can organise it properly. I can honestly say that I was a little more reluctant about this last week, because I did not see very clearly what Mr Asscher meant at the time. We have reflected on that internally, and I think he has a point. It was also in contributions from the others. My only question to the Chamber now is not to say that it should be an OMT for the economy next to the OMT, because that really does not fit, I think, in focusing on health first and then on all other matters. But as soon as things can, and especially when it affects the public space, the d and that kind of issues and the considerations you make... Making choices in scarcity. Now not so much in money, but in space; a classic political subject. It's also part of politics, totally once. But just give me a chance to structure that exactly. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u133	I'm not so much concerned with what it's called. The point is that where they are political considerations that must also be discussed politically, it is transparent. Because the longer we are in this crisis, the need for transparency is also more important if we are to be able to make judgements. A second element that goes along with this is more than just the ic-capacity. There's more you can do than just stay in with all of us; RIVM says so too. So the point that lies with De Jonge, the testing, tracking and keeping in touch, that's directly related to how we get out of here. I would also ask the Prime Minister not to see that as a very special subject, so: he does the apps and the tests...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u134	No, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u135	This directly affects how the Netherlands finally comes from under that crisis, both the virus and the economic lockdown.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u136	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Where I'm talking about "medical," I mean the space that there is. Look, as we all know thanks to all the briefings that you get every week: the Rumo under 1, and actually a little under 1; as soon as it gets above 1, the virus starts to break out again. So every time you take measures, you want to be sure, or as sure as possible, that R doesn't come back above one. That is a medical issue, and that ultimately determines the space that exists. Next, I agree entirely with Mr Asscher: after that, of course, whether or not the hair masks for the hairdressers, the issues of testing in education, or when people get complaints. Of course, all these kinds of issues will be dealt with immediately, and I agree with him. But that first piece, whether that space is there, I think is really just a medical issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u137	That is indeed a classic political question, namely: what is a fair distribution of scarcity? Then it's about money, the economic package: why are you helping one sector and not the other? But also about the scarce space in a one-and-a-half-metre society. So that is indeed a classic question: what then is a just division? And what is the risk, then, is that all kinds of wishes are expressed here, whether it be funerals or catering, and that the Prime Minister is right to say: "I must warn, I have to say: boys, calm down..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u138	"Not now..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u139	"Not now, because it's still incredibly exciting." That warning is therefore justified and appropriate; thank you for that. At the same time, that question is pressing. And I agree with Mr Asscher: then somewhere we must know what the guiding values are; then what are the considerations? Frankly, I also come forward with some hesitation myself, because I do not want to overload the cabinet crisis team, but I am looking for a way to explain these values and to make those considerations really clear, so that we can finally have a debate on them. So: this is how we deal with the scarce money, so we deal with the scarce time, and this is the choice. And in addition, we need all the disciplines. Then we need more than just the health scientists. Sorry for my long question, Mr President, but you can see that in the technical briefing, that Van Dissel gets questions that go much further and go much wider than his own expertise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u140	And luckily, because with that we begin to enter a new phase very carefully. That is the luxury, but I still keep saying: it is still very much the beginning of a new phase and there is no more room at the moment than yesterday. But it is a fact that we are at the very beginning of the new phase and hopefully do not have to go back to the previous one. At the moment, the cabinet is not only being explicitly advised, but we are also in very close contact with the security regions. Ferd Grapperhaus and Pieter-Jaap Aalbersberg of the NCTV have meetings with the 25 security regional mayors every Monday. It discusses all these issues of enforcement and land-use planning in great detail. We also talk to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau and the Central Planning Bureau. That's all nutrition for what the Cabinet is doing right now. But I fully understand what is being said here, last week by Asscher and this week by many, explicated by Mr Segers: make those considerations visible; how do you make those choices in scarcity? I would also like to say to Mr Segers that this includes the issue of young people. Mrs Hamer's initiative also involves the Youth Platform of the ESC. That is an important specific issue. That was a question that Mr Segers had asked in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u141	I'm a big fan of the polder, or at least see its importance. At the same time, it is also wide, large and sometimes slow. I don't mean to offend anyone, but that's the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u142	Well, I did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u143	Excuse those who are offended! At the same time, we are in the middle of a crisis. In crises, you have two stages, namely the first phase after an outbreak, which you have to contain, and the second phase, namely: what is aftercare and how do we accompany the aftershocks well? Hence I made the suggestion of an Impact Management Team, an IMT, or give it a better name. You have to bring different expertises around a table somewhere, adding something to the OMT and helping the cabinet crisis team to make a bearing, and then we can have the political debate here. Because I will say it again: in the end, it is an ethical debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u144	Agreed. But again, don't pin it already on a structure. Just give me a chance to get back to you on how we think it can best fit in with the crisis structure. We'll do that as soon as we can. Listening to what everyone says, and I largely agree, that's soluble.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u145	Mr. Klaver. No? Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u146	Mr. Chairman. Then back to the questions about the economy. There is one more important point. The current NOW regime cannot be changed legally, because it has been issued, which has been reported, and you cannot impose further conditions on it later. But it also ends. Unfortunately, there is a need for an extension at some point, it seems, of all kinds of arrangements, because it will not be over by the end of May. So, as a cabinet, we need to think about the support package 2.0 from the end of May. We are. How else are you gonna fill that out in a special way? Today it has been announced how we apply the NOW at the level of the working society. This will make the scheme more favourable, but additional conditions have also been laid down, namely a ban on the release of debt securities. If the NOW is to be renewed, of course it is obvious that we are going to include these additional requirements, namely no bonuses and no dividends. And again, that's all yet to be... It comes from the group determination specialization. So that's a speciality within the current NOW for that group. That specific requirement on bonuses and dividends can of course be applied to the whole NOW when an extension is made. I think this meets wishes from the Chamber. I am not yet ready to add the whole fee requirement. I wouldn't be for that. But for this very practical requirement, I am. Of course, that was also the debate between Klaver and Dijkhoff, who found each other a long way away from specific companies to see if there are any additional possibilities for greening, for example. But it seems to me now to go too far to put it as a general requirement. All companies must, of course, comply with the Climate Agreement, which already makes a great deal of demands on our industry and our business. I have many more texts, but this is what I wanted to say about the concerns about what additional requirements you can make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u147	It is very good to hear from the cabinet that it wants to make additional demands if we give money to business. One condition I didn't hear. It's about buying back its own shares. That too has been mentioned by many here. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister that this will also be added if the NOW is extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u148	I think that's obvious, but I'm going to have a little official advice on what goes wrong if I just say yes to that. So I'll come back to that. I hope the officials are listening because I can't look at them anymore. But they're listening. Purchasing own shares as a third condition: I can't oversee it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u149	It is indeed good to hear that these requirements will apply to the follow-up package. I also miss a very important one, namely that it is so decent that you actually keep your people in service. See KLM, for example. Does the Prime Minister believe, if you knock on the door of the State for state aid to compensate for your wage costs, that the minimum requirement is that you also keep your staff properly employed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u150	Yes, in general terms, yes, but what Dijkhoff said applies. I really agreed with that. However, you must leave room for specific considerations in specific companies. If you're sure that in an extreme case such a company will fall over immediately after the NOW expires, because everyone is still in service, and you'd better start restructuring under the NOW flag, I don't want to put it as a tough edge condition. The purpose of the scheme is indeed not to maintain the logo or the company. The aim is to maintain employment. That's the goal, so I agree. But I wouldn't want to put it as a hard demand, and with that I would like to leave some room for unique considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u151	The Prime Minister mentioned the importance of public transport a number of times in the economy block. If we start slowly starting up sectors, more people will also have to move again and the pressure on public transport will increase. But the transport companies have already indicated that we cannot carry everyone with that 1.5 metres; the capacity will be limited. Can the Prime Minister indicate how the cabinet views developments in other countries, where masks in public transport are part of protecting fellow travellers and staff in public transport? If indeed only 25% capacity is available, how will the cabinet support transport companies in order to allow those buses and trains to run in a cost-effective way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u152	This brings me to another point and then I'm going to answer the question. Hugo de Jonge will say something about the pace in which we send letters to Parliament. We're gonna bring that down a little bit. This gives the Chamber the opportunity to discuss all kinds of sectors of this kind with the Ministers and Secretary of State, because they are eager to be able to join you again. The answer to the general question about support for the DVD is really not exactly on my agenda right now. Everything's being worked on. As far as the mouth caps are concerned, of course, the Outbreak Management Team is considering what is the role of mouth caps in society at all, regardless of the care and the people working in the sewers and so on. Apart from those specific sectors, for example, the question is: could it help to mitigate the one-and-a-half-metre measure? Do you or do you not need them for the contact professions? There will be further advice on this. I have, like everyone else, sleepless nights of the thought that you instantly lost two thirds of your capacity. If the universities and colleges were to open, the trains would be full. How the hell are you gonna do that? But I'm still trying to throw that keg of poison back into the sea. But it washes up again and hopefully with the advice that you can do something with mouth caps there. But I don't have a clue yet. Moreover, I would like to add to the conditions for the next phase of the NOW programme, which is also mentioned, I think that, apart from the measures relating to bonuses and dividends, additional requirements in the field of training are also being considered. We are also trying to include insights from, for example, Denmark, where these kinds of requirements have been made. That would add up. So I will come back to the question about stock purchase. Then I'll join the education. In general, I would like to say the following. Schools are preparing for it now. That is what they are going to do with the participation councils and in good consultation with teachers and parents. We really need to give that a chance. That is why we have also said: take for primary schools, for primary schools, for 11 May as the date. Some schools could actually start on 4 May, but until 11 May we have a little more time. It really needs to be put in a good place, in the fifty-fifty ratio. How exactly are they going to do that? Morning and afternoon? Or do they choose to have kids come all day and then not a day? It's really up to education to sort that out. This includes questions about children with a vulnerable condition or parents with a vulnerable condition. How exactly are you supposed to deal with that? For teachers with underlying health problems, they do not stand in front of the group, not even in child care. For example, they can work from their homes, or at school but away from the children. On the broader question we have said: please discuss in peace and quiet in the schools with the GGD's and with the GGD what is wise there. This concerns vulnerable children, but also teachers who have a husband, wife or partner with a vulnerable condition at home. What do you do when parents are afraid to go to school? Well, then we're not gonna send in the compulsory education officer with a fine book. Even then, we say, "Get on with that conversation, talk about it quietly." Go to school and talk to parents who have that kind of care. Show me how you're decorating at that school. Parents who have these concerns must connect with the participation council, with the school leadership. Give that trial a chance. After yesterday there was mainly care, but underlyingly positive response by parents and schools. Of course also with a lot of questions and concerns. In consultation with the sector, we want to ensure that there is a great deal of customisation possible, that there is room for this to take place from 11 May. It's not exactly harsh and whipped about it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no............................................................................... That's the first thing. I have more questions about education. I can answer them all and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u153	That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u154	This was about the many questions that were asked about parents or children from at-risk groups. A question has been asked about the number of tests. Yeah, that's possible, but it's not like every teacher's gonna get tested. A test only makes sense if you have cold problems, but if a lecturer has cold problems and worries, then a system can be tested according to that. That whole system has been further debunked by Hugo de Jonge in recent days. He'll go into it in a minute. There are many people who experience test concerns or test bureaucracy. It's been very hard working to remove those concerns. Teachers who have direct contact with pupils are treated in the same way as care staff. They can be tested in the same way. The misunderstanding shouldn't be that you're getting tested because you want to be tested once. It only makes sense, so it just works technically if you also have cold problems. They have to be there for about 24 hours before it makes any sense at all. Those tests are there; there's plenty of test capacity. Are we taking lessons from what is happening in Denmark? Yes, I had a video conference today with, among others, the Danish colleague. I have said that we are following very closely what is happening there. This concerns both the issue of company training and the additional condition, as well as the schools that are only just open. There are still no results to report. It's just begun. But we'll take advantage of it. In the same context, a question has been asked about children who are allowed to work out. What about the guidance? I say to Mr Krol that the same hygiene rules apply to all Dutch people. They stay at home with complaints, do not shake hands and keep as far as possible 1.5 meters away. We have said that children should come to that sports activity themselves or take it in the car if necessary. But then they are pushed out of the car for sports activity; parents do not go along, do not stand by the line and do not stand there looking. The kids are showering at home. We've made all those specific conditions. Up to 12 years you can play a game. Also from 12 to 18 years, but not in a sport where you cannot maintain the 1.5 meters, and certainly not a competition where they have to travel through the region. Unfortunately, we can't have that at all. Mr. Chairman. So much for the questions about education and youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u155	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u156	I actually have two questions, one about the inspections and the possible fines that hopefully won't be there and one about testing. I understood the Prime Minister correctly when he said that we are not going to let the inspection with the fine book blow; there must first be consultation with the school. We think differently about that. I think it's too early, not you, but let's put that difference aside. Can I conclude in such a way that if a parent, invited to do so, has been in conversation with the school and still feels that it is too early, then this parent will not be faced with a fine? So they don't belong to a vulnerable group, but the parent just thinks: I think it's too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u157	I'm not going to answer that right now. I hear Mr Wilders' question, but I am not going to answer it yet. I really want to take a look at what's going on in those conversations over the next few weeks. I shall come back to that in the case of many cases in which it is said that there are still no grounds to believe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u158	I shall come back to it in a second period. My second question is about the tests. I understand that you and the Minister of Health have arranged that teachers can also be tested at a low threshold, provided they have complaints, of course. I'm in favour, I actually think everyone should be tested, so I'm very much in favour. Thank you for that. I just don't understand what's going on here. Your reasoning for opening schools is that the transmission of children to adults is small. That is the reasoning of the cabinet. And yet again: you rightly say that these teachers should be able to be tested. Now there are a lot of other heroes in the Netherlands, the box filler, the cashier, the one who works at Hubo, shop staff. They are in contact every day with people, adults, through whom transmission takes place. However, I have never seen an OMT opinion that says: we are going to make sure that those students, at Albert Heijn, the Jumbo or anywhere else, can also be tested if they have complaints. So I support it when it comes to the teachers; I just find it strange that all the other people, who also wake up every day, and unfortunately not everyone, who are 1.5 metres away in the supermarket and in the shops, do not receive the same treatment as those teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u159	In the end, of course, you want to extend that test possibility further. At the moment, it has been greatly expanded. Eventually it will scale up to 29,000 a day. It is important, however, that tests be carried out with a doctor in between, because there must also be a report back to the doctor. In the most serious case, that was also the GDD. The Young One will explain this further. There is enough room to include this target group. Eventually, if there's more test capacity, you'll see what you can do. But we work in scarcity. We had a shortage of personal protective equipment. It's not completely gone yet, but it's been taken away. We had a shortage of lung machines. Luckily, he hasn't been criticized. There is also a shortage of test capacity. Within that scarcity, you have to make choices. And these are the choices we're making now based on advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u160	Yes. So far. That'll be the last question, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u161	That is not fair in this case, because I am not getting an answer to my question. My question was not whether there is scarcity. I understand that, too. And I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u162	That's where we make choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u163	Yes, but you're making a choice for a group now. A group, again, which I very much welcome and which has to do with children, from whom you yourself say that there is hardly any transmission to adults. And yet you give them space. And I say there's another group. A group that you called "the heroes of the Netherlands" before. Those are the people who work in the shops, who fill the boxes, the cashiers. They really don't all always have the ability to maintain that 1.5 meters. Why don't they get that treatment? I'd like an answer to that. That pocket filler that gets sick because the people don't stick to that 1.5 meter...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u164	That's what you said. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u165	...he should be able to get that treatment. Again, that teacher has to do with children, whom you say there is no or hardly any transmission. That box-filler and that cashier have to do with adults with transmissions. So if you have any scarcity, I might also be thinking of that box filler first, but in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u166	Yeah, but at the same time, you have to make choices. This is the choice we make, based on the advice. Even since education, as Mr Wilders himself pointed out, is beginning to show a great deal of clarity about the exact nature of the transfer of children and children to adults, but there are also concerns about this, particularly in education, I think this is a logical choice. Every choice you make is a choice in scarcity. Inside you always have a certain amount of consideration that you can ask yourself: is this exactly how you want it to be? I think this is a logical choice, but perfect will never be those kinds of choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u167	I actually had Mr Heerma on my list, but I am going to Mr Segers now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u168	Just a little bit more on the subject of education. The Prime Minister says that it is up to education to make plans, even when it comes to special education, for example. He really puts it back in the sector. He's got to figure out how they're gonna start it all. That's about extra vulnerable kids. A battle is being waged in relation to parents with vulnerable children or children with disabilities. This brings me to a specific group, namely people with disabilities. Yesterday, I saw the Minister of Disability at Op1 with Rick Brink. He said: we seem to have to raise our finger every time and ask for extra attention for us each time. We have signed the UN Disability Convention. That means that we are an inclusive society. As a general rule, can we say that we are looking specifically at this vulnerable group, people with disabilities and parents with children with disabilities, and that we are looking at a transition plan for this group because they are really wondering if they are being considered?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u169	Since my colleague, Mr Slob, is also eager to be able to understand himself directly with Mr Segers on these important issues, I would ask Mr Segers: is it conceivable that we should pass on this question and have a somewhat longer debate with Minister Slob? Because these are all kinds of questions, of course, and I can think of a lot more. I would also like to ask the officials to give me some further information on this, but I really do not have this ready right now, because I am not that specific in this matter. What I do know is that I do not think Mr Segers' question, but I am trying to say that primary special education is open to 12 years. That doesn't go half-half, 50%, but completely open. But I think, as Mr Segers describes, there are also children who are not in special education but in regular education. But the schools in special education used to open the mytyl schools and so on. That's all I can say about that right now. If Mr Segers has a more specific question, I can either put it in the official's office and come back to it, or pass it on to the more specific debate that Mr Segers might have with Mr Slob in the week that we do not send a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u170	It is very nice to hear that the ministers are eager to come to the Chamber!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u171	I can't stop him anymore!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u172	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u173	I do not know if that is a good sign at all, because sometimes rulers also have to be a little bit afraid of the Chamber. But that aside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u174	But he's a former member of the Chamber. That helps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u175	Okay. As much as I like to talk to the Minister for Primary Education, Minister Slob, this is a broader question. This is about a group of people with some kind of disability. We all have a limitation, but let's just call that group that says: you say that we belong, but is there a special look at us and is it really taking into account the fact that we have a restriction? That is not only in special education, but much wider. I would also like to refer to the contribution of the Minister of Disabled Persons yesterday at Op1. He very strongly called for attention to be paid to this. We have also received a letter from Elke(in), so this is really broader and also applies, for example, to disability care. He says: look at our group, because we feel that we are often missed. So this is more of a cry of hearts to make a special transition plan for them and to pay special attention to them. It would be very nice if the Minister of VWS were to deal with this later, because this is also largely in his portfolio. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I would like to warmly underline this call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u176	He was already mumbling something in my direction that I could now express as a big new idea created by me, but maybe it would be better if Hugo the Young did. He's about to get into this. I would like to delete the question for official support and, for officials, I only have the question of purchasing own shares.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u177	I have seen that, by next Wednesday, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., there has been a paper consultation on education and corona with the Minister for Education. So I will leave out a number of more specific questions that I had, now too. But maybe I can ask one more question on the main line. On the one hand, you see a lot of space and freedom for the schools to regulate it in a good way. That's fine. On the other hand, this should not lead to a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty again and that customization actually means "pick it out for yourself." Does the Prime Minister see a role for, for example, educational advisory bodies, which also have a lot of expertise, so that there can be some targeted support for those schools at this difficult stage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u178	Yes, of course. I remember from my time as Secretary of State for Education that this sector is well equipped with advice, so that is definitely going to happen. I was just trying to say... This is, of course, a sensitive discussion. In March, on the basis of all advice, the cabinet said that schools can stay open. Society said: figure it out as a cabinet, because we're not going to stay open at all. Parents kept children at home and teachers stayed home. So this is a very sensitive subject. I also understand the sensitivity. I also understand the concern there is. I get parents saying, "Hey, thank God my kids can go back to school!" I also understand parents saying, "Hey, is that really a good idea?" There will be teachers who are happy to go back to school, but perhaps also teachers who say: yes, wait a minute... That's why it's so important that we leave room for that now that we can do it again. You can see underlying support for this idea in the schools and all kinds of organisations involved, where we also reflect, once again, on all the concerns that exist. It's not supposed to say, "Find out." There are some very clear guidelines. The most important of these is that the schools are not yet fully open; I just outlined the distribution. You hope, also on the basis of the research that is going on and from what is happening in Germany and Denmark, what insights do we have here and what insights do you get from Germany and Denmark? That in a few weeks you can say that they can be completely open. Meanwhile, we also ask the secondary schools, secondary education, to think about how to open them up again. Of course, that 1.5 meter must be maintained there. In primary schools, that's not realistic. It is wise to do so between the teacher and the children, but between the children of course there is no doing so. It has to be from the age of 12 years. That is why I say to the secondary schools, to secondary education: think about how you can open up again, hopefully around 1 June, as I said yesterday. Inside you want to leave room for customization, consultation with the participation councils and so on, but not with the intention of "freedom, happiness" or "find it out," absolutely not. From the Ministry will be very well kept on the pulse and of course also from all advisory bodies, without any doubt. Finally, I come to a few very short questions about students. What's happening? Educational institutions are doing everything they can to prevent delays. It's good all the time. I think we all really appreciate that commitment. Furthermore, students can borrow more in case of acute financial need. That can also be done with retroactive effect. Should students, due to delays due to these corona problems, not be able to graduate just within the ten-year diploma period or walk out of their right to study funding, they will contact DUO. It'll be a coulance. Students in higher education are entitled to an O.V. year card for a further three months. For students who, due to the corona crisis, suffer from a delay in studying because they become ill, provide care or combine the study with parenting, they are entitled to the profiling fund in higher education. What if, despite all these efforts, which I am very pleased with, problems still arise? The Minister of Education, Ingrid van Engelshoven, who discusses this, talks with students and institutions to determine what exactly is the group where problems arise to see if solutions can be found. "Working to peel off" would say Wouter Koolmees, first from all existing arrangements. If there's still a residual category, we're gonna try to solve it with some coulance. I'm not gonna promise you that it's always gonna work. That is also the answer to the lady who called me on the street this afternoon: think of the students. I said "we think of everyone," but then I hadn't seen this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u179	That's very nice. The first part of the answer was already adopted in the debate last week: measures at DUO and with the student card. That is all very important. But especially now that the measures are going to take longer and the MBO, HBO and WO are unlikely to be able to provide physical education for the time being, the chances are very high that more students are going to lag behind in their studies, despite all the good efforts of teachers. I'd like confirmation that this is about the MBO, HBO and wo. Also in the MBO there are a lot of students who cannot take practical exams, whose internships are now stationary. It's good to have this for the h.o. and do the wo, but also like for the mbo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u180	I note that, in addition to the question about the purchase of own shares, I will also return to the MBO. I think the answer is yes, but I just want to make sure it's not some flytrap. I'm gonna double check, but I think the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u181	Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Klaver. Oh, another point? All right, then I give the floor to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u182	It's almost a whole laundry list of what happens for students. It's not new. These were the things that have actually been put forward all along. Those students do not have education at the moment, but tuition is paid for it. This is exactly the category with all the flex lanes they really need. It's called a side job, but they really need it for their livelihood. That's all gonna go away now. I think it is quite reasonable to see if those students, who are not currently using the lectures, can get some of that tuition money back, because that would help this particular group. Is the Prime Minister prepared to look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u183	I want to look at everything and everyone, but the counter is now above 20 billion for three months. We borrowed 65 billion because we also get almost no tax revenue. Maybe we should do it again and maybe we should do it again. Pfff. I'd say, really, do me a favor. Mrs Van Engelshoven is also eager to come to the Chamber. Why don't you talk to her about it? I really can't see that. I'd rather put everyone in the arms now in a safe way, at five feet, and say, "I'll take care of it for you." But gosh, guys. We're looking at flexworkers. That's Wouter Koolmees working on it, but I really don't know if this is covered. I can't see that right now. I don't really want to try to fix that tonight either. So I'm gonna find out about that mbo, but do me a favor. That would be my question. And do this directly with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u184	Yes, we will. I'd like to point out something. The sigh was: we already spend more than 20 billion. Yeah, we spend a lot of money. I am putting this on the table because it is the only debate we have now. It is therefore very easy to say that there will be debates again. Until now, this has been the only debate and the only chance for us as a Chamber to raise all these issues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u185	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u186	That's why we're doing this. The sigh was: we already spend so much money. Yeah, that's right. There will be more money in the coming period and then I think you should not forget this particular group, because this is a group where very heavy blows are taking place. Yes, we will also discuss it with the Minister who is discussing it. But I think it's too easy to get over what the effects of this crisis are for students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u187	I am glad that we have been paying a little attention in recent years, so that we can do so at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u188	The Prime Minister says he wants to look at everything and everyone, but this is yet another debate in a row in which he simply does not answer the questions about animals, not the zoonoses and not the animals in livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u189	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u190	So I ask him directly whether he thinks it is justified to go crazy on animals as if they were chrysanthemums, so to destroy meat, and whether he thinks it is justified that there are very serious animal welfare problems at the moment in crowded stalls.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u191	No, of course not. Terrible. I hate everything that comes out of corona. Yes, of course. The answer is "no, I don't like that," but what can I do about it right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u192	We have an appointment with the Cabinet in the Chamber and that is: if we ask written questions, we will get answers within three weeks. In this corona crisis...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u193	They're coming. I just got word that the set of questions was sent today. It's signed and coming up. I'm being saved by the gong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u194	I've seen a letter about zoonoses, and I don't mean those.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u195	No, there's a set of questions coming up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u196	Mr. President, I'm going to continue. In the corona crisis we saw that, fortunately, the cabinet more often answered all our questions, except those about how to avoid problems with overcrowded stalls in livestock farming. I brought it up last week. Then the three weeks were over. Now it's been over four weeks. So yes, I will put it on the Prime Minister's plate, because his Minister for Agriculture therefore refuses to answer these questions and refuses to intervene in order to prevent these tragedies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u197	Did I mention that the Minister of Agriculture is also eager to join the Chamber personally? I'll find out. I'm gonna check to see if the questions that have been sent can have been read by Mrs Ouwehand. Let's go check it out. So I now come back to three points in the second term, the MBO, the purchase of own shares and the questions about animals. Shall we do it like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u198	A point of order, Mr. Chairman. It is not the letter we received today from the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u199	That's what we're gonna find out. Apparently, a question set has also been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u200	A point of order. I can very well imagine that the Prime Minister is thinking on all the issues that are now being raised, there are quite a lot of them: do I have to answer them now? But we have agreed here in this Parliament that there is one debate and that is this debate. I think it is really too easy for him to refer for the fifth time to a debate that may need to be repeated. This is the deal we have with each other. This is the moment when we can ask questions, and I expect to answer them, to be honest. I can see all my fellow Members dealing with this very generously, but if we get the answer to almost every question that we ask 'go through it with my colleagues from the cabinet'...........................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u201	I totally agree, but there are now two things that remain on the screen. That's the question about students at flex jobs. I said: please do so at Van Engelshoven. And again, if it is insisted that I am answering it now, I want to do so in second term. The other was Mr Segers' question on education. There is wider contact and Hugo de Jonge goes into the vulnerable children. So there's only one left on the sieve. One, but again: I would also like to answer it if that is desired. But I just thought that the Chamber was going to plan more debates itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u202	Yeah, yeah, next week there's a notation meeting on education and corona.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u203	The measures are very different from one country to another. We saw this morning in Van Dissel's report that the situation in the Netherlands is very different in each province. I put the same question to Mr Van Dissel this morning. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that it could be of great benefit, including with the aid measures, if we were to take other measures per province? For example, we see that there is hardly any corona in Groningen and Friesland. That could lighten things up over there. Then no companies would have to go bankrupt there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u204	Yeah, but there's traffic across the country, of course. There's no traffic abroad. We ask people to stay home as much as possible, but of course there is also traffic in the Netherlands. I think that's a little risky anyway. I think that's also why the experts have said so far that you shouldn't. It's been looked at. It is not in itself a strange idea to make regional differences. We did make them. At the moment when things went wrong in Brabant, we said there first, on a Friday, before more extensive packages were announced: stay at home as much as possible. That was because it got more intense there and we had less explanation from the contact and source research what exactly was going on. But on the other hand, making a difference in the scaling-up of course also has effects, especially given that people travel through the country and also in view of the interlinkage in the country. Of course, we're a small country with a lot of people. So we looked at it eventually, but decided not to, for that reason. Again, it is not an idiotic thought. Not at all. There's no black and white. But this is the fair balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u205	Well, thank you. That's a much more fun reaction than last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u206	Yeah, I'm sorry about that prickly remark I made about tennis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u207	That's okay. I forgive you a lot, even in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u208	Would you like to talk about it, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u209	No, we're talking enough. It's no problem at all. But look, a country like France is of course much bigger than the Netherlands. So that regional argument is a little out of place. I imagine it's already been considered. But if we see that the aid packages are getting even bigger, then perhaps it would be good to think again about them and perhaps, under certain conditions, to look at them again, so that it might be possible to do so. For example, in Friesland, we don't let those companies go bankrupt. If you can give me that promise, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u210	The promise that we will not always say no to that in advance, I can do so, because that is an instrument you have. Only until now has been chosen not to do so. I do not see that changing immediately either, for the reason I mentioned: a lot of people in a small country, including travel movements. It's, again, not like I'm saying it's never possible at all, but it's not foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u211	During my contribution, I indicated that it would be so beautiful if we saw the same enthusiasm we see for developing the app for producing protective equipment in our own country. I couldn't escape the impression that it made the Prime Minister angry. I think I heard something about it being across the border. To be honest, I was wondering why exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u212	I'd be happy to explain. It struck me because the impression was created as if De Jonge and I were enthusiastic about a piece of new technology. Maybe I didn't mean to, but that's how it looked to me. "We're gonna develop apps, do an appatone and fun and cozy and fast, and we're not gonna get to the mouth caps and the protective equipment anymore." I can say one thing. This man and Martin van Rijn aren't working on apps day and night. No way. They're working day and night, though. At first, that was the question of the transfer of patients. In one night, Hugo de Jonge, with fantastic help from the care and the non-existent nationwide support to move patients, managed to reduce the pressure in Brabant. Then he threw himself all over the mouth caps and protective equipment, on the ventilation equipment and all that stuff. That's why it shot me in the wrong throat. Like: well, we believe the caps and the ventilation equipment, we are developing nice apps. Maybe that wasn't your intention at all, but at least that's why I took that up. But those apps are also important. There's got to be one. De Jonge will discuss that in a moment. But that does not prevent all energy from being primarily aimed at ensuring that our people have the best protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u213	Well, the fact is, of course, when it comes to that app, they put companies together that have to make something. And when it comes to mouth caps, we now see that companies are only desperately producing things by themselves because they want to contribute. The Prime Minister can put on the qualification he wants, of course. That's up to him. I have never doubted the commitment of this or that, but I can see that we are not asking for this for a week or two weeks; we have been on the road for a month and a half! And still the guidelines in the care are so that, if you are dealing with corona patients... You can't keep that distance of five feet. But it is, is said, a matter of fleeting contact. Then the directive is still: no protective equipment. I think that is very serious when you see that in countries around us mouth caps are handed out at the supermarket. And we say to healthcare professionals: even though you are dealing with corona patients, even if you can't keep a foot and a half away, no protective equipment for you. That is the directive we now have. You can say 'over the border', but those caregivers are forced across the border, across the border, as long as that directive is not amended, so that all caregivers who need it can also count on the protective equipment they need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u214	First of all, it is a good thing that our misunderstanding has been resolved and Mrs Marijnissen says: I do not want to give the impression that you are not doing everything about it. By the way, I am helping myself where I can help, but primarily that is Martin van Rijn, Hugo de Jonge and of course a huge club of people behind it who are working on it, up to the envoy and everyone who is working on it. So I'm glad that misunderstanding is gone. Then that's settled. Let me turn to the question itself: there is a huge shortage of personal protective equipment in many parts of Europe. In England, for example, there is a crisis at this point, but in other countries, such as Belgium, there are huge shortages of personal protective equipment. In the meantime, an air bridge has started with China, so I really hope that we will be able to bring some peace to that in the near future. But it's just like that app: you can't just pull it out of the sky. And it is certainly not possible to simply develop its own production capacity for personal protective equipment. It's being developed now. It's going to produce. I thought I'd look at Hugo and say they're going to make a quarter of the Dutch need, but that's not the whole Dutch need yet, so there's still a lot to be imported. That too is now in progress. So we do everything we can, but quite honestly: every Wednesday or Thursday we can beat each other's brains out and ask why it hasn't been arranged yet, but that doesn't speed things up. The best people work on it day and night. And one thing I really want to say: we are also looking at that app, but that has not been at the expense of energy to regulate the problem of the mouth caps, the aprons, the tests and so on. This is being worked on with the same amount of energy, if possible even more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u215	The Prime Minister is not going into my point that the directive is still concerned at the moment that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u216	Hugo de Jonge will come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u217	Yes, but the Prime Minister says "we're doing everything we can" and "we're working hard," but if he blames me for saying something that's across the border, I'm asking him to go into the fact that the directive forces carers to cross the borders of safety, their own safety and the safety of the people they care for. With corona patients unable to keep their distance, no protective materials, that is the directive at the moment. Not one or two weeks, but a month and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u218	Once again, Hugo de Jonge will go into the exact guidelines in a moment. I have said everything about the deficits in particular. As far as I'm concerned, I think we're developing happy apps here and we're not getting to buy mouth caps. That's just not true. Everyone is working on that day and night. I can't make it any prettier. But again, we can debate this every week and say that it is not yet settled; no, there are more things not arranged. A lot of things are too early or too late. If we had known before how it would all develop, we would have done other things. We're all going to evaluate that. Then it will appear that a lot of mistakes have been made, no doubt, but at this point I can really say that I do not know what else we can do now. And it's not like if we hadn't had the apps, we could have spent more time solving this problem. It seemed a little like Mrs Marijnissen submitted that choice and we would have chosen the apps instead of making an extra call for the mouth caps. That's really not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u219	At this point? Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u220	I was glad to hear the Prime Minister say that we have now provided a quarter of the Dutch need for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u221	I said we'll build it up. We're building up. That is the goal of our own production.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u222	In previous debates here, I have always asked: "Tell me a few. How many of those masks do we need? What is an assessment?" We always got the answer: "we can't give it," "you can't say that," "it's impossible" and "it can't be expressed in numbers." Of course you can. Apparently, it's a quarter. How much are we talking about? Because we have also done a lot of research, and it is without any problem possible to bring an infinite amount of these things to the Netherlands within ten days, in all categories of protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u223	When it comes to the FFP2, the toughest category, we can immediately make a quarter of what we think we need.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u224	How much is that? How many are there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u225	Hugo de Jonge will go into that shortly. He prepared that. I don't have that in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u226	That's what we want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u227	I hear it's 1.5 million out of 4 million. But again, maybe it's okay... Hugo de Jonge will speak in a moment; he will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u228	So you're saying you can't just bring 5 million of these things to the Netherlands in ten days' time? We can do that, because we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u229	The Minister of VWS will discuss this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u230	Mr. Chairman. Then I have... Oh, no, I still see Mr. Azarkan standing. I'm going to talk about Morocco. That's not what this is about? Okay. I've still got the repatriation, which is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u231	You're becoming predictable, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u232	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Sometimes you gotta hang in there, too. But let's save Morocco for later. I thought the Prime Minister came to an end, and I have a key point when it comes to taking the tests and scaling it up within the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u233	Hugo de Jonge is gonna do that. I'd like to answer that question, but then I'm going to read his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u234	You don't have to do that for me, but I still want to make the point, including the Prime Minister. We've been talking about more tests here for weeks. That really is a bit of a redistribution of poverty. We just don't have enough tests, and part of that also determines what we can do. Sure. During the briefing Mr Van Dissel also indicated that too little testing is being carried out within the GGD. I read that it is possible, but I also read that the costs are being charged. I hear the Prime Minister sighing that we are borrowing 20 billion and need to lend another 65 billion, but there is discussion about, there is stowing, there is mugging...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u235	No. For those who need to be tested, we pay. We pay for the people who need to be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u236	Mr President, both rulers speak through me. It's okay for you to find something like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u237	Yeah, I saw that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u238	Then you, as chairman, can find something of that. But you don't have to. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u239	Pfffff...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u240	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u241	My question is how can it be that a crucial thing such as testing within the GGD is being spent on costs, while on the other hand we are going to spend 65 or perhaps 100 billion on aid packages for SMEs, multinationals and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u242	The good news is, there's no stomping on it. So that's good. We pay the tests for people in care or immediately in education who have complaints and say: we really want to make sure that it is not serious. That leaves me with two things. First of all, in the direction of Mr Azarkan on Morocco, I am not going to say anything about it. Then comes the standard ruttian answer that everything I say about it in public will reduce the chance that we can bring it to a successful conclusion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, questions about Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u243	We heard this two or three weeks ago. The Prime Minister said, "Let me see how far I can get in diplomacy." I would like to ask, perhaps in very general terms, if there is any indication that these 3,000 people are coming this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u244	There are no guarantees. We're doing everything we can, but there are no guarantees, no. Mr. Chairman. Then there was another question about Europe. The Eurogroup agreed on Thursday before Easter on a package of over 500 billion. I think it's added up to 520 billion. In part, you also talk about existing money from the ESM, which can be used to combat direct costs, now and also in the future, in the field of corona, i.e. healthcare costs. This could amount to 2% of a country's gross national product. Of course, it's also a big cost. That's the piece. At the same time, it is also important to reaffirm that the ESM, even if it is further used for economic crises, is subject to normal conditionality. The second element in that package is the EIB. It's important. The third is the Commission's SURE proposal, which focused very much on reducing working hours. This has also been extended by the Netherlands to reduce working hours, but also to matters such as combating corona. In addition, Wopke Hoekstra has also achieved that it has been agreed that this is limited in time and does not remain a running program. Of course, you have to see this in addition to the 750 billion that the European Central Bank has already deployed from its firepower to ensure that the threat of rising interest rates on government bonds from southern European countries is reduced. I do not expect any conclusions in the European Council tomorrow. My current expectation is that tomorrow it will lead to conclusions from the President, Charles Michel, who will say that the European Council has established that the Eurogroup has agreed on these three issues, that this is good news and that we will ask all the relevant bodies to have this worked out, if possible, by 1 June at the latest. This has brought real peace for the coming weeks. It has calmed down because this leads to countries themselves being in the process of fighting the crisis, as the Netherlands does, but Italy, Spain, France and Germany are also doing so. With this, extra firepower is ready to help countries. Such an EIB programme is also aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, which a country such as the Netherlands could use. It is also important that you see that it is explicitly stipulated that the continuation of the ESM is subject to conditionality. That is an important Dutch demand. In addition, it has not been said that there will be any Eurobonds, but there is a growing awareness in Europe, my perception is that the chances of them coming are very small. It is seen by a number of countries, including the Netherlands, as contrary to the whole design, the whole architecture, the euro area and the currency union we have, namely with sovereign countries that share a currency with a central European Central Bank. There is therefore no room for sharing debt through joint issuance of government bonds. That leaves two points. They will have to be discussed in the coming weeks. The first is the question of what countries, perhaps in the future, need in money to kick-start the economy. In addition, there is the question of whether you can provide loans for countries that need to kick-start the economy. This has been described in the eurogroup as a recovery tool, a recovery tool, which must be developed in one way or another. That's gonna be a lot of discussion. There will be no conclusions on this tomorrow. We will, of course, inform the Chamber very closely about how this is going to develop. There are, of course, many sensitive political debates behind this. But the most important notions are the following: ESM means conditionality, if you have instruments, they are limited in time and of eurobonds it is clear that the Netherlands does not want them, but also not a whole set of other countries. We cannot just be overruled by this either, because as a country, of course, you must agree to the issue of such a joint bond. But my expectation is that there will still be complex discussions. Last Monday I had the scheduled conversation with the Italian and Spanish colleagues. Through videoconference, we discussed extensively with Merkel and Macron for two and a half hours. That was after a cold start in a pleasant atmosphere. There was a misunderstanding in Italy, namely whether it really was true that the first piece for the fight against corona from the ESM is without conditionality. Yes, Guiseppe, that's for sure; that's how we agreed. Can I hear that again? Yeah, I'm gonna say it again. That helped. Sometimes you can give away something that was already given away and the receiver is happy again. That was good for the atmosphere. I also understand the distrust in Italy because the ESM is extremely politically sensitive in domestic political relations. Well, that's where we are. So I am not expecting any sweeping conclusions tomorrow, but in the coming weeks, the discussion will obviously continue on how to design this recovery fund. My last sentence on that is the following. Of course, you do not want to be able to go from loans to grants, because that is also a proposal that is made here and there. That all fits in with the Dutch position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u245	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u246	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u247	First Mr Baudet, then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u248	But you do not want to say that there will be no Eurobonds?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u249	Not as far as the Netherlands is concerned. You should never rule that out, but I don't expect it to happen, because if the Netherlands doesn't participate, such a Eurobond will of course become less attractive if countries decide to spend their debts among themselves. That is possible, but the Netherlands will not participate in it. But you can't rule that out. That's not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u250	But you say here that, should all these countries so wish, and should it be put to the vote or proposed, the Netherlands would then use a veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u251	Yeah, but that's panic about a veto again. That is not necessary, because there are eight or nine countries against eurobonds, so that will not be a veto. That whole "if," then... It always sounds so panicky, "a veto!'. But in this case that is not true, because we have a whole group of countries that do not want eurobonds. Well, I see that Mr Baudet is completely reassured, and rightly so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u252	Mr. Chairman. I still lack answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u253	They're for Minister De Jonge. You must understand the lower framework, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u254	Thank you. Oh, Mr. Jetten, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u255	Yes, Mr. Chairman. In my own contribution, I had also asked what the Prime Minister is going to do in Europe. Because at some point we, as the Netherlands, isolated ourselves in that eurogroup, because we were very critical of a number of proposals that were there and were accused by other capitals that the Netherlands is merely saying no and not making proposals. My specific question to the Prime Minister in my own contribution was: will he, now that it is at Council level, take the lead himself, whether or not with Germany and France, to put those constructive proposals on the table for the implementation of the innovative financial instruments, so that the Netherlands is in the lead and does not have to react? In the interrupting debate with Mr Asscher, Mr Asscher and I actually asked the Prime Minister: is he prepared to argue there too to link the European Green Deal and conditions for large business to such a massive European package of support of many hundreds of billions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u256	I hear "many hundreds of billions." There is now 750 billion ECB money, 520 billion from the euro group. At some point it will be a party committee looking for a party, with all that money. Let's see what we need to do first. But it was a Dutch initiative. Last Monday, the other four supported this, namely that there will be an in-depth analysis by the Commission of what is actually the economic damage at the moment, including for sectors such as tourism, the car industry, agriculture, as well as regions and regions beyond. That analysis is important to see what else is needed. 'Cause everybody's betting on each other: "Another triljard," "1,5 triljard." I really hear...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u257	Sorry, Chairman. I'm not asking for any more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u258	Yeah...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u259	I was still... But when he answers his question, he admits that it could have been quicker: it is not that we are now jumping, to say out of nowhere that the Netherlands is going to propose to publish another trillion. So it's not. Our proposal, well, not only from us, I have to admit, but we were certainly instrumental in it: make that analysis, and on the basis of that analysis, you will see what else is needed, against the background of the Eurogroup conclusion which says that there is one way or another that such a recovery fund or a recovery instrument should be created. Yeah, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u260	Then perhaps I would not have made my question clear enough; let me try again. Look, there's already a lot of money and a lot of big amounts have already been mentioned. The question is: how do you ensure that these huge amounts are used in a sensible way? We have seen with each other that Europe is one of the major challenges of achieving digitalisation and sustainability. So: how can we make sure that the corona support package...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u261	Yeah, in that sense, I get it, okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u262	... is aimed at achieving the other ambitions of Europe as well? And in order to prevent the Netherlands from having to say a great deal of no to other countries that have devised their own innovative financial instruments, is my question: does this Prime Minister ensure that the Netherlands makes the constructive proposals and is thus in the lead in the European debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u263	Yes, except that I do not yet know exactly what this innovative financial instrument should be, if it is not Eurobonds. And then I got Mr. Baudet against me again, and we weren't gonna do that. And well, you know, there's not much else to think about. There may have to be some sort of something, but no eurobonds. So yes, I don't know if the Netherlands is the one to say this. We didn't make that line up. We have put that line in place, and that is what Wopke Hoekstra has succeeded in getting rid of the eurobonds. But that is not the way to say that we are jumping for innovative financial instruments. But on another point, yes. I agree with Mr Jetten, and I also said this in the sitting on Monday: try to make this Green Deal, the Digital Agenda, the portfolios of Timmermans and Vestager, of course, the two main streams of what this Commission is doing, instrumental, leading this whole process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u264	The last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u265	Because if you build a new Europe after this crisis, of course, you want a Europe that is at the forefront of innovation in the world when it comes to turning to a low-carbon economy, and you want a Europe that is ahead in digital.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u266	That's very wise. I also agree with the Prime Minister that the phrase on innovative financial instruments is a vague phrase in the deal of finance ministers. That is an open path, which is now at the level of the Heads of Government and needs to be resolved there. My appeal, then, is: let us make sure that we as the Netherlands do not again follow the discussion and can only say no and that we try to push it in our direction with constructive proposals in the interests of the Netherlands. It is good that the Prime Minister agrees with other capitals, but I really want to ask him to make sure that we are in the lead in the discussion, and not just say no as in the euro area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u267	Still, in the euro area, we were also in the lead. Hoekstra, just admitted, has done very well. Maybe it may sometimes be called Hoekstra for a reason, but it ended well in the end. ESM: not without conditionality. That's well arranged. Two: not a millimeter admitted on eurobonds. Those were important things. He's not my party, but he did a good job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u268	Thank you, Prime Minister. I just said it was his last, but Mr Jetten has one question left. We're gonna wait for the switch of speakers. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u269	Thank you, Mr President. First, I'd like to get together the questions related to testing, source and contact research, and the apps. That is, in substance, one block. Then I would like to answer a number of questions concerning personal protective equipment. Then I would like to answer a number of questions about protecting the vulnerable, including the elderly in the nursing homes. Then I have a few more varia questions. I'll start testing. There are quite a few misunderstandings about that. I want to remove some of those misunderstandings. What about the capacity of 17,500 tests a day? That capacity is there, but is it absolutely necessary at the moment? No, it doesn't seem to be entirely necessary. A few weeks ago, from April 6th, we gave the people in care the opportunity to test for complaints. It wasn't before, but it has since then. This has been used more and more. In the meantime, we're on about 7,000 tests a day. At the beginning of April, we were on about 4,000 tests a day. The number of tests per day has almost doubled. That is certainly going in the right direction, but that has not used up the full capacity. That is why we dare to say: in case of complaints, teachers can now also be tested, just like the people in childcare. That's an important addition. That's on top of the people who can already be tested through their GP, because they belong to the vulnerable target group. That helps. Last week Mr Krol, among others, said: should you not also do the carers? Some of the carers are already in the vulnerable target group anyway, but that would be another group I would like to give an opportunity to. We'll just do it one step at a time. Last week I also went to Mr Asscher, who asked for this, to be honest: when it comes to whether we have engaged enough laboratories, more than 40, we have sufficient capacity at the moment. Of course, this capacity must be used to the full. We need supplies for that. It takes supplies to keep all the machines in those labs running. We're getting more and more certainty about that. Feike Sijbesma, which may be said here, does a really great job in the direction of all those companies who are behind it and need to get the supply chains in order. That's kind of exciting. You need raw materials. You need production capacity. Production capacity is also increasingly being started in the Netherlands, but stocks remain exciting. We hope that we will be able to make more and more of the capacity that is just standing, but we are doing that step by step. If we tell the teachers and the childcare staff that they can now be tested for complaints, we must be able to do so. People in care: they can do it. People in childcare and education: they can do that. I hope that the carers too will soon be able to be tested, but I would like to take it step by step, because I want to be sure that we can make what we say happen. This is about the test capacity and the extent to which it is currently being used. Is there no obstacle at all? How then is it that Mr Asscher's Facebook post, which I was indeed reminded of, is receiving so much reaction, including from people who cannot go? Yeah, there's a number of bottlenecks that we've been trying to clean away in the last few weeks. The first is that sometimes people couldn't get to the GD because it wasn't easy to get there through the company doctor. It depends on what your employer's appointments are with the company doctor. Sometimes it goes very smoothly, but sometimes it goes less smoothly. Sometimes a few days had to be waited before an appointment was made with the company doctor. That's why we've agreed with the GGDs: if that's gonna work, just be the doctor for these people for a while. That's possible, isn't it? You have to have a doctor, because a doctor has to striate and say: yes, there are complaints. A doctor should then also be able to report the test results. So that's why the doctor is needed. For example, if there are no good agreements with the company doctor or whatever, or if a company doctor charges money, then none of this should stand in the way. So be receptive yourself to a direct course to the GD if necessary. That's what the G.D.D. wants to do. So that's a deal. The second bottleneck concerns care workers who had to pay for that test. That's what I heard, but it's just not true. There are a number of private initiatives. That can indeed be billed. That's why we took care of it through the G.D.D. The GGD does not charge the test to the employee or employer. Then there's the accessibility of the G.D.D.'s. I've heard a number of complaints about that. By the way, these are complaints from a few days ago, almost a week now. GGD's themselves said: then we are easily accessible, even with a national hotline, so that people, if they run into it, can report to GGD Nederland. Then the G.D.D.'s gonna go after it and see what's going on. In addition, we have confirmed all agreements several times, both through the domes and through the employees' organisations. This has also been done by the GGDs in the region vis-à-vis their health care institutions, in order to remove any misunderstanding there too. In short, it has been a question of removing obstacles in the last week. My impression is that things are much better now. I can also see that in the virological day states. There was a question from Mr Heerma, who said: the 7.000, is that complete? Are we sure this is complete? Yes, we're sure that's complete, because to be a laboratory that can deal with these types of tests, you need to be accredited by the RIVM. One of the appointments you then make is that you have to report to the RIVM in the virological day state. You will also be tested if you are sufficiently reliable. That virological day state is one of the numbers we like to follow with great pleasure these days. It's actually all the test results as they come in. So you have an obligation to report a positive infection to the regional GD. And you have an obligation to report the test results to the RIVM at all. There is sometimes a delay in reporting, but we know how many tests are being carried out. Do we have test capacity to test all Dutch? When will we be there? That was a question from Mr Jetten, but I think that is a question that lives with many more groups. Eventually, you'd want to test more and more. We also said a few weeks ago that the policy must be: testing, tracing and home reports. That's the triple we're working towards more and more. This concerns first of all the unplugging of more test capacity. We have shook the tree firmly, and we are doing quite well. Then the question is: which groups are you joining and when are you where you need to be? We're trying to test more and more groups. The NVMM, the Dutch Association for Medical Microbiology, advises us to say: testing must be useful. So you can't test until there's complaints. That's one. We can't just test everyone casually. The Prime Minister explained this in the same way. And it must also make sense in the perspective of action. This is particularly true for vulnerable people, of course. That's also true for people in care, of course. This will be the case when it comes to the people in education and childcare. And that's how you keep trying to figure out a next group of people who make sense. Carers, that's really the next group I'm thinking of. But then other groups can also be discussed as far as I am concerned. Test the whole of the Netherlands? That is very broad again, because at some point in the case of complaints the perspective of action does not change either. That's because stay home. If you have any complaints, you stay home. That is the perspective of action that we are giving to everyone. But we're always trying to connect new groups. This is partly linked to the source and contact research, which I would like to explain in a moment. But perhaps first a single question about testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u270	Maybe it's good to answer all the questions about testing first. After that, Mr Heerma will have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u271	Then there's the source and contact research. Some of you have rightly pointed this out: the source and contact research is at the heart of infectious disease control. Every former alderman who was once responsible for the GGD in his region remembers those states with how many infections have been detected. Especially in a big city you see the most exotic diseases passing by. Then it is always the case that source and contact research is done. That's the way you stop an infection as soon as possible. In Brabant, the number of infections only increased so much that it was no longer possible to do that source and contact research in the normal way. In Limburg it was the same story. By the way, the GGDs have made huge changes. The idea that staff has not yet been stepped up and scaled up is not entirely correct. In Amsterdam, 20 people who normally do that source and contact research have gone to 150. In Leiden I just spoke to Sjaak de Gouw for a moment. You can see a huge increase in the number of people who are committed to source and contact research everywhere. That is actually quite similar to what Germany has done, but I also said: I want you to prepare yourself for a situation of the next step in our testing policy. The number of source and contact tests you need to do is entirely related to the test policy. If we now have 7,000 tests a day, it is logical that an x number of them is positive. From a positive infection, the need for source and contact research applies. If we switch on more groups, that means more positive tests and more source and contact research. Last Friday, I asked the GGD to visualize how much human commitment that requires. It is rightly said that this can be seen, but that also means that it is linked to the choices made in the test policy. That's right. The extent to which you need people depends on the choices you make in the test policy and in tracing. There is also the link with the app development. If it increases very much, if you're going to test a lot more, digital support is really of added value. That is also why we have chosen over the last two weeks to prepare ourselves very well for what is needed there. On Monday, April 6th, the OMT advised us to come up with more source and contact research. It has been said that this probably also means that you need digital support. We've been looking into what's possible there. That's what came out of it, namely that at the moment there is no app that you can take off the shelf to do the source and contact research, to do the tracking in a good way. There's no such thing. However, there are a number of very interesting developments that are coming a long way, but they currently do not meet the security requirements and privacy requirements you would like. It is also not sufficiently thought out how this is related to testing policy and to source and contact research. That's why we're taking a couple of weeks for that. One of the follow-up assignments is to continue work on the more epidemiological requirements of such a technical, digital solution, as well as the link with the source and contact research. The second sequel is that we have an app like this built. We are currently looking for a way in which we can best shape that, preferably with the best knowledge from the various initiatives that are now available. A third track is that we continue to do all the tests and checks we have done over the past week from the security services and from the Personal Data Authority in the next phase. And a fourth is that we also want to prepare ourselves in a good way in terms of behavioral expertise. What does it take to introduce that in a good way? I think we can take a follow-up decision on this in about four weeks. Am I sure that's gonna work? No. So I agree with everyone who says: yes, but it means that you have to prepare for a lot more people to do that source and contact research anyway. And that order was also given to the GDD. That's it, at least on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u272	Then I have Mr Heerma, then Mrs Ouwehand, then Mrs Marijnissen, then Mr Azarkan and then Mr Klaver. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u273	This was a pretty long block and I have several questions about it. I will use several of my interruptions for that. In fact, the Minister states that we have removed many obstacles. And yet that gap between the capacity and the number of applications is so large. Last week we had a debate on healthcare institutions that said: we are no longer reporting; we have arranged it ourselves. The Minister now points out that these institutions are in the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u274	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u275	Okay. That was my first question. My second question is whether the Minister can explain why the gap between capacity and capacity is so large. If these obstacles are no longer there, there must be reason to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u276	Yeah, but I can't really explain those reasons. You must imagine that the healthcare sector is a sector with 1.2 million people, about 60,000 providers and 25 GGDs. I have about 18 hours a day to use my phone and call and push and pull. Before things actually land on the work floor, a few days go by. I think we're really gonna see growth in those 7,000 in the next few days. But suppose there's another 1,000 or 1,500 coming from care. Let's say a few thousand more are going to come from education and childcare. In the beginning it will have a run-in problem, then it will increase and then it will level off again, because the people with complaints will then be about tested. That's the expectation you have. I think you'll still be inside that 17.5. Can I say that for sure? No. On 6 April we took care and I remember that we announced the week before. I asked: "Guys, are we sure we're gonna make that happen? Are we sure? What is the estimate of the number of people to be tested when we say: anyone who has 24 hours of complaints can be tested? How many people could that be?" I got estimates between 7,000 and 20,000. So that was a step you're taking in the confidence that you're gonna make it, but that's the assessment. Of course, it is not easy to estimate in advance how many people with complaints are actually there. That seems to have been at the bottom of that assessment. How it's going to develop in the next few days, I really can't predict it right now. The capacity is there and the capacity used shows that there is room to switch on another group. That is what we do with education, and I hope to do with carers. But we take it one step at a time, because we also want to be able to make it happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u277	Mr Asscher talked about this contact investigation last weekend. Several other parties have already mentioned this. Germany is a long way off with that. Can the Minister explain why it took so long in the Netherlands to recruit volunteers here too? Does the Minister share my statement that before you start tracing infections through that contact investigation... Apps can also be added to that... At that point, if there was an outbreak, you'd also need a lot of testing capacity. Is there one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u278	There is indeed a relationship between the test policy and the number of source and contact studies, but then there is also an increasing need to increase the number of tests. That's right. The source and contact research. I think it is good to take away the idea that it is not happening at all at the moment. In Brabant and Limburg, the number of infections was so high in the long run that it was no longer possible to do so. That is why the research was carried out in an extensive way in the field of source and contact research. It consists of writing to people with a positive test result with the message: you have to inform the people you have encountered in the last two weeks. In the meantime, a lot of extra staff has been recruited in Brabant to be able to do the source and contact research again. So you actually see that more people are attracted in all regions where more capacity was needed. We are now turning to test capacity in such a way that my expectation is indeed exactly the same, namely: you will need a lot more people. That's not gonna go through the usual way of putting ads, et cetera. So you're really gonna have to make a big personal investment in the GGD. I have put that question to the Health Service and it is now being mapped out. But it is rightly said that it is also related to the choices you make in the test policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u279	In which Germany uses a lot of volunteers. Precisely because of the example of Brabant and Limburg: now you have the time to make sure that you don't get over the shoes, as happened there. So that time has to be used.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u280	Exactly. Exactly, and that's why we asked that question to the GGD. This is now being mapped out. One has developed a prognosis model to see how many people you would need. Something else is going on, namely the relationship with digital support. This digital support can never replace the source and contact research, because it actually works in a different way than the regular source and contact research. It's faster. You no longer need the time between the positive test result and the day that someone can be invited by the GGD to have that conversation. So it's going faster. If it's okay, it's more complete, too. 'Cause it's going through digital signaling. You often don't remember exactly who you've come across in the last two weeks. You certainly don't know the name, address and phone number of those people. So this digital support might well be an even more precise addition to the regular source and contact research, where you would also like to continue the regular source and contact research as much as possible. In short, how exactly we are going to shape that is going to crystallize in the next week. That will also determine the human force you'll need later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u281	The Minister said just now that the Netherlands is doing the same thing as Germany. I don't think so. In Germany, they have significantly expanded that capacity for that contact research. The German GGD also says that you need human contact for that contact investigation, because people are scared to death when they get a report on an app that they may be infected. So you can't replace it with an app. Merkel says: 5 researchers out of 20,000 inhabitants. Is that the ambition the Minister has?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u282	In Germany, of course, more tests are being carried out. If you convert the numerical ratios, it is a factor of three relatively larger than in the Netherlands. In Germany, therefore, more tests are being carried out. If we are going to rise, because of the teachers and because of childcare, then I expect Germany to be one and a half to two times the size of the Netherlands. I do not know the exact situation in Germany. I do know that there are a lot of volunteers working there. One of the options now available at the GGD to provide the additional human capacity is working with volunteers. But it could be different. It could also be with students, for example medical students. That's happening a lot now. Germany has already started to scale up its test capacity, but we are going to get closer and closer. What is beyond doubt is that all forms of effective infectious disease control run through the line of the source and contact research. This is really not regulated in every country in that way, but in the Netherlands of course we know a fine-meshed network of GGD's. The more precise you can do that research and the better the perspective of action that you can then offer to the one who got the signal to have been near, the better that advice and the better and more effective you can press an early revival right back in the head. The sooner you can do that, the sooner you'll also have that virus "containt" a very ugly word. That's why I need that digital support. By the way, you get even more reports and thus potentially even more positive test results. This, in turn, leads to an even greater need for testing through source and contact research. So it's a self-enhancing effect if you're going to work this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u283	The Minister talks about that app all the time and that it is needed. I object to that. He's just gonna have to prove that one more time. If we look at what the Ministry has learned from the appathon and everything that went wrong there, that's too much to mention. Now there are four points for follow-up or improvement steps. But this morning the scientists said that the Chamber said in an adopted motion that the cabinet should listen to them, that there are still a lot of questions about that. And Friday the first programme of demands must be ready. I think this is going to be a repeat of the mistakes made by the Ministry and the Minister is still refusing to go through the order you have to go through. You must first look at what is useful and necessary. Only then can an app make a contribution, under these very sharp conditions. But the minister is already at the end of that song. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u284	No, I'm giving effect to the Jetten motion. It asks me to examine the effects of the app as soon as possible, and that is what I have done. We have, of course, done so within framework conditions which you consider important and which the Cabinet considers important, because I also said that speed should never suffer from due diligence requirements. You mentioned a number of things about this last time and struck a number of picket posts. I very much agree with that and so we continue along that line. We have a number of follow-up steps to be taken when it comes to epidemiological requirements and their more technical specifications: how big should the distance be? How long do you think you've been around someone? Are there any situations where you want to have the opportunity to turn off that app because otherwise it gives false positive results? So think of all that kind of more technical specifications, but there is also a more strategic commitment: how could you make the app work in addition to regular source and contact research? So I say that the app can be more complete and can be faster, and with that really a real addition. All this needs to be thought out. For that, you do need design requirements before you can start designing. It must always be open, because the mind doesn't stand still. That turned out to be the case in the last few weeks. So it must always be open and you must always be able to move forward, but at least you need enough requirements to build. Second, we want to bring together the best people to build that app. There's nothing on the shelf for sale now. We have examined this very carefully, and it has been shown in recent weeks. That's why I'm not so gloomy about those last few weeks. Boy, if you have to work so fast... Where there is chopped traps of chips, and where a lot of meat is chopped so also many chips fall. But this has been a nice and quick process to see where we stand. It's been a market consultation. You always do that before you actually start buying something. Then you do a market consultation to see where you stand. That has been very effective. In my opinion, this was also a very transparent way of getting everyone to see how you can find the search for such a new solution, in addition to the necessary source and contact research. The third is that we always have to take care of those conditions of security and privacy et cetera. So that's what we're doing. That's what we're gonna keep testing. All these experts, as you put it in the motion, we will continue to involve as much as possible. It also matters how many people use this digital solution. To ensure that many people want to make use of it, it is necessary to have high confidence. That is why we need this behavioral expertise and for that we are as transparent as possible. That always helps in confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u285	There seems to be a strange constitutional figure here, because the Minister is only talking about the adopted motion for a resolution, an adopted coalition motion. But there is also an adopted opposition motion, the Old Hand's motion, which says that the cabinet should involve the scientists who sent that letter, it was there first 60, then 100 and then 140, and the Chamber heard them this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u286	So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u287	Yes, I haven't heard at all that the Minister has learned from that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u288	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u289	No, because he keeps saying that that app is needed anyway, while these people say: the order is that you first look at utility and necessity and determine whether it can work at all, and then see how you could technically do it within all those conditions. The minister is really on the wrong side of the line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u290	No. Mrs Ouwehand would like to do everything in a very orderly manner, but then it will of course be jut-juttemis before you are finished. If you do it this way, you better hope we found a vaccine before an app. So that doesn't help us. So you're gonna have to do it a little bit at the same time. You have to do it right and we're not gonna do it at the expense of care, but we're gonna do it at a rate that's gonna help you. We're gonna do that. By the way, we fully respect your motion. We'll just get the experts involved. The AP is involved, the NCTV is involved. At all events, all the security services are involved. The National Cyber Security Center is involved. The state's attorney is involved. All the experts are involved that you would need to check and double check that this thing is safe, because before it's safe and careful, we're not gonna work with it. So it could be that it doesn't work out, huh? That is an opportunity that I am very much in favour of. It's possible it won't work. Then we can't. That would be a shame, because I think it would be more useful if you did. That's why I'm gonna do my best to make it work. There are several motions, by the way. Your motion has been adopted, and therefore no more opposition motion, but I have found another motion, the Van Haga/Baudet motion, which says that privacy should be allowed to depart as a result of the health and safety of the citizen... It was adopted, with 87 votes in favour. I did not want to do too much with that in this context, if it is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u291	Oh? Okay. Last question, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u292	I'll leave you with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u293	Yes, I think that would be a good proposal, Mrs Ouwehand. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u294	The OMT states that the extent to which we are able to conduct large-scale contact research is the prerequisite for relaxing the measures. I think I hear the Minister say that I would like to check that he gave the order to the GGD last Friday to put that in place. Yesterday we heard the head of Public Health at the GGD on TV saying: the GGD can do it, but we haven't seen the Ministry's assignment yet. What the hell is true? Hasn't the G.D.D. gotten that assignment yet, and did he get that assignment on Friday? What about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u295	The order was given last Friday. It is linked to the extension of testing. I think that's where the surprise could come from: why did you give it to me last Friday? Look at the source and contact research with the current test policy. In most provinces there is still a real source and contact research. In a number of provinces this has not temporarily been the case or has been temporarily scaled down. No real source and contact research could be done there because of the amount of contamination, but they hired staff very quickly to do so again. If you extend the test policy, you'll probably get more positive results, so you'll have more need for source and contact research and therefore need more people. We are going to expand it again and perhaps we are going to extend it again with the carers too: first the teachers and the teaching staff and later perhaps also the carers. Then you're really on a bigger group of people. That also means a lot more source and contact research. That's what the staff's gonna do. For this reason, last Friday we said to the GGDs: prepare for it, because there is probably a boom of extra human need coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u296	If you do know that that large-scale contact research takes thousands of people... The Minister mentioned an example in Leiden where, I say from my head, from 10 to 40 people had been expanded. But of course that's nothing compared to the scale that's going to be needed. We need thousands of people to do this right if we are to relax the measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u297	I know. That's the question to the Health Service: prepare for it. A prognosis model has been created and on that basis one determines how much one needs. That was the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u298	But the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u299	Then my question remains: why does that request only come to the GGD on Friday? It is remarkable that the head of Public Health said yesterday: I do not know of an assignment. Anyway, apparently the assignment was given on Friday. But then the question remains; there is also our greatest concern. Last week, I quoted the same gentleman from the GD when it came to personal protective equipment. Then he said: we were asked only the week before to adapt that distribution model, which also means that protective equipment will go to the nursing homes, much too late, of course. We know the outcome now. That's what we're talking about right now. My big concern is that we are going after the facts again. If I can believe the Minister, we will do so, but only Friday, the mission to the GGD was to expand to the thousands of people needed to do that large-scale contact investigation, which the OMT says is a prerequisite for relaxing the measures. We'll be late again, won't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u300	Let's go back. You need source and contact tests for a positive test result. At the moment, the number of positive test results in most provinces is related to the human force that one has, because a lot of extra people have already been hired, much more than there are normal source and contact research. Then we say that we are going to extend the test policy again. The capacity offers that space, so we are going to expand the number of groups we are going to test again: first the teachers and teaching staff and then perhaps also the carers. So we're gonna run more tests. The effect will be: more positive results and therefore more source and contact research. What we're doing is exactly in line with the OMT recommendation. What we do is exactly in the rhythm in which the GD's need those people. It shows how many extra people that are then, and then we are going to provide for that. There are a number of possibilities to provide for this. This isn't too late. It's just preparing for the next phase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u301	About the corona app. When I read the text on TenderNed, it was intended that a test version would be ready on April 18th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u302	What we wanted to do...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u303	Weren't you finished with your question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u304	Oh, you looked at me so questioningly. I thought it was a very completed question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u305	No, go ahead. Then I didn't ask a question. Why don't you just give me what you want to say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u306	No. What's the question? Otherwise, I'm just gonna count him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u307	That's pretty tight math, Mr. Chairman. Anyway, it's okay with me. If that is the intention, is it not the conclusion that the objective has not been achieved from what the Minister had intended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u308	Let's reconstruct. By the way, I have described it all in detail in the letter, but just a reconstruction. On Monday 6 April we had an OMT advice that said there are three anchor points: 1. the hospital capacity, 2. the vulnerable elderly and 3. sufficient visibility and insight into the spread of that virus. If you want sufficient visibility and insight, you will need to do more source and contact research and test more. "Testing, tracing and home reporting" is what we made of that. That's what digital support is for. That is also stated in the OMT opinion. Digital support can help to do that source and contact research at a stage where you're going to test a lot more. So we said: we have to do something with that as a cabinet. We need to explore whether we can provide for that, I wrote in the letter. This led to a huge reaction from the market. It has been said that we can do this already, and we already have an initiative that is very similar to this. So there were a lot of initiatives in the market and then we said: then we will have to do a market consultation to see what is already possible. And imagine there's something that's already very close to what you'd like, then you should also want to buy that off the shelf with perhaps a few further development. That's how it happened. We have indeed taken a short time for that, because we felt it necessary to get out of there quickly. In the meantime, we've learned an incredible amount. We have seen incredibly much of what is possible, but also of what is not yet possible. So we have seen that none of the apps can currently meet the security requirements we set with each other, such as privacy requirements, and that there are still some questions to answer about how to apply it in the source and contact research. That is why we have said that we really have work to do or that we have a follow-up mission to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u309	That is also very euphemistic when the haste that has begun is interpreted in such a way by the security services and when a lot of experts say that it is not even clear how this relates to the other instruments. We had a hearing this morning in which the appathon under the responsibility of the minister was classified as some kind of circus attraction. A professor just indicates that. Very much appreciated for the enthusiasm and transparency, but actually doomed to failure. The Dutch Data Protection Authority says: we are not even able to do it, because it is not sufficiently developed, because it is not sufficiently guaranteed and because some fundamental questions are unanswered. How can the Minister insist that this was just a sensible course?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u310	What we have found on the basis of all the expert advice is that there is still work to be done. For this work we are going to take as much time as it takes, but not more time than it takes. I have, of course, seen many comments. We do this in perfect transparency. We do this on purpose, because we know that there is always a concern when it comes to ICT and medical health and because we know that there is always a concern when it comes to ICT and government. But the cynicism with which such a trajectory is viewed has surprised me. With cynicism nothing beautiful has ever been built, never before. If you want us to use together all the solutions that are at our disposal, you will have to do the best you can to make sure that you actually work out all those options and actually come up with them. Nota bene also very encouraged to do so in the Chamber in the previous debate. In the meantime, I hear some more comments. It's okay. It's okay. We all have moving insights. That's what I've got myself. But I'm very much in favour of it. I'm very much in favour of it if I can. But if it can't be justified, we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u311	Those are wise words. I think that's why experts have warned us about this. In addition, we can read in every report of the General Court that in government-driven ICT projects, the objective often goes wrong. It often goes wrong with the scope determination. It often goes wrong in the way project management is organised. Has the Minister taken note of all these critical reports, which means he doesn't have to make the same mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u312	No, I didn't cover all the reports. If I did all that... I have also heard people say that I must first organise a social debate and so on. Yeah, that's not what the virus's waiting for. We shouldn't do that. We need to get to work on a sensible advice that we have received, and do so as quickly as possible, but also as carefully as is necessary. If it can't be carefully, not safely, we won't. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u313	Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u314	The virus doesn't wait for that, indeed. But the virus doesn't tell us to think carefully before we do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u315	No, the virus didn't say that either. That's right. So we're thinking hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u316	I appreciate the process that has been going through over the past few weeks. That was very transparent. You try something. Sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't. In this case, it didn't work. Cynicism is not appropriate. Neither is Bravoure. It's about what we learn from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u317	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u318	I'm not dancing because this failed because it didn't go well. I'm so sorry. I was hoping something nice would have come out of this. But it's about what conclusions you draw. All those specialists I've heard, all those experts I hear, they all say, you have to step back. You have to ask yourself what the target is again. The target is source and contact research. What we know is that first of all, you have to switch hugely with the GGDs. In the end, we have to assume almost 30,000 tests that we want to do. You have to have enough people to do that. Then we want to support that, digitally if we can. What's that gonna take? What does that mean? So the minister shouldn't move on to put a group together that's going to build an app. No, the minister needs to take a step back, think carefully about what is needed to support that source and contact research, what conditions, and then see if an app like that was thought out is the right route. That's the way. That's the conclusion after this weekend, and no other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u319	That's right. That is also the conclusion we draw in the letter. Exactly that one. Exactly that one. You're calling the trial a failure. I say: no, what we have invented in a very short time is what can be done from the initiatives that already exist in the market, but also what cannot yet. They were serious initiatives, one by one, but they didn't meet the high standards we set one by one. There must be confidence in society before this type of digital support works. That can only be there if we work transparently and if, on the basis of, indeed, expert insights, we can establish that it is right. We can't. Not based on what's ahead. So it takes more time to get there. That indeed means a clarification of what you actually want in its application. That is the first question we have to answer. So that's also the first assignment we've given to the GGDs. Two is to make a design based on the requirements that result from it. That's the second assignment. That is what we have to prepare for. The third: prepare the whole test street of all those abbreviations that have passed in the past few days and that we all need to be able to say, at the end of the ride, that it is sound and safe. Fourthly, the behavioral aspect. How do you make a lot of people want to use this? That's the four follow-up assignments. So, yes, we're just taking the place. Let's take that step back that's just necessary. It doesn't exist in the market right now. So we only make the place, and then we get where you want to end up. Is that a guarantee that it's gonna work? No. Am I gonna do the best I can for that? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u320	I have no doubt that the Minister is doing his utmost on all these issues. That's not the point at all. But the route he's sketching now is exactly where my objection lies. That's the route to an app. There is no alternative, as has already been said in the Chamber. We don't know if this is gonna work. Just for the record, I hope it works. It would be great if it worked. But there is great doubt that this can be done at all. If you are now using the route of taking a step back to see what you need, there is also the question of whether there are alternatives for such an app to make this work. I'm really worried if we can get an app operational at all, or enough people to use it. The most widely used app in the Netherlands is DigiD, with 6 million users. For the rest, the use of government apps by citizens is very low. As a result, the effect of such an app and how much it will contribute to the source and contact research is also less. That is why I ask the Minister whether, when taking a step back, looking at what else is the goal, what we want to do and how we can best support source and contact research, he is also willing to look at alternatives. 'Cause the odds that app isn't gonna work are life-size, and we can't have that. So we need an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u321	There's an alternative. This alternative is the manual execution of the source and contact research. That's the alternative. That alternative is a viable alternative as long as the number of tests remains reasonably clear. As the number of tests increases much further, you'll need a lot more people. In addition, an app or digital support in another form is a supplement. It can help to do the source and contact research faster, because you get that signal faster than when you have that conversation with the GGD. It can also help to be more complete, because you often can't remember exactly who you've come across. We can do this better with digital support. Maybe it's never or-or. Maybe it's always a complement to each other. That could be a very good application. But let's just take a moment to look into that. Is there an alternative? Yeah, that's completely manual. That's the alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u322	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u323	I'm sorry to have to say this, but this is a mistake. It's not: either there's an app or we're doing it the oldskool way. The source and contact research by the GGD is the basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u324	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u325	Just what happens. I'm not gonna let that go. That's what needs to be done. We see that we have to scale that up enormously, that so much has to be done there that it can't be done properly without further digital support. You can also think about how the current work processes at the GGD can be further automated so that it can be faster. How can we find optimizations in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u326	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u327	I find bets on either we do it as we did or it's an app...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u328	No, that's exactly what I'm not saying. That's exactly what I'm not saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u329	I think I was still talking. The Minister states: we can always fall back on the old-fashioned source and contact research. We don't fall back on that. That's still the base. My question is: how can we ensure that we can do that on a huge scale without just being dependent on that app?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u330	That is exactly what we are taking the time for over the next few weeks. I believe that digital support can really help to make the work process not only better if you do a lot more tests. Because then it is necessary to be able to provide for that at all. But you should also really see it as a supplement, additional support, on the regular source and contact research. Is there an alternative to an app? Yes, of course there is an alternative, namely simply in the analog way intensifying the source and contact research, just with the human force there is. That's the alternative. Can you speed up work processes? Of course, you can speed up work processes, but eventually a supplement in the form of digital support will not be able to make regular source and contact research more effective instead. That's why we both have to want to do it. In any case, the question has been asked to the GGD: prepare for an increasing test capacity so that we are ready when we engage new groups in that test policy. That's a good idea anyway. In addition, we will see if we can also meet this other wish of the OMT, namely digital support. Could it be of added value? If the answer to that question is yes, and I believe in it, and we can still do it safely and responsibly, then we must do it. If the answer to that last question is that we cannot do it safely and responsibly, we should not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u331	The minister says that he did not order the GGD to scale up until last Friday, because a new group of people to be tested will soon be added: teachers and staff in the daycare centers. Does he then say that the groups tested so far have all been present at such a source and contact study and, if so, how many have been done? If not, why didn't he give the order to scale up further on April 6, when the OMT said it was a condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u332	On 6 April, the source and contact studies had increased and the GGD made its own personal choices, for example by using people who are in youth health care. Wherever possible, people have scaled up themselves in a personal sense. Now that we're going to reconnect the following groups, a new group of people will be needed to do those source and contact research. You can see at this moment that there are regional differences between the GDPDs. In the north of the Netherlands, the source and contact research has always continued. In fact, they never had to scale down there. This has been the case most often in Brabant, but it is also quite soon that staffing capacity has been put in place to restore that source and contact research as much as possible. But it is a fair question from Mr Asscher, so I think it is good to give a picture of how we have been able to carry out the research on sources and contact over the past few weeks. Especially in Brabant and Limburg they had to scale down very much in the long run. Then it was only again that it was possible to do that source and contact research again when new people joined. I think it's okay to just write down how this has gone over the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u333	I would like to appeal to you, Mr President, because you are keeping count of the interruptions. It wasn't just a fair question; it wasn't answered either. The question was: does the Minister now claim that everyone who tested positive received such a source and contact research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u334	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u335	If not, why did he not order further scaling up until last Friday, when he knew since 6 April that it is a condition for what we are going to do next in order to be able to do source and contact research as quickly as possible with everyone who has been tested positively?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u336	Because we've been thinking since last week about how to upgrade the teachers and the people in child care. That would mean another group. That that source and contact research actually didn't work out well in the past period, played particularly in that first period in Brabant, when the number of infections increased very much. That didn't work anymore with the people they had with the three GGDs in Brabant. In Limburg there has also been a time when it was no longer possible. People have been hired. I just mentioned a number of figures from the people who were hired to do that source and contact research. Sometimes they are students; sometimes they are people from youth health care. But when we decided last Friday to add a new group, we said: then we should also ask the GGD to prepare for a new group of people. Before that, the GGDs simply joined new people themselves, either people from youth health care or people who are otherwise involved in the GGD, or people they have hired.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u337	I'd like to take a look at that assignment at the GGD last Friday. It didn't end up in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u338	That was just a phone call from our people at the GGD last Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u339	It's not entirely unimportant. The WHO advises: testing, testing, testing. They just pointed that out. They were talking about the Netherlands. The predecessor of Mr De Jonge on this dossier denied that it was about the Netherlands. They say: do those tests, expand your capacity and do source and contact research, because it is necessary to contain the epidemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u340	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u341	On April 6th, the OMT says that to the cabinet, and the cabinet says three times a day: we follow the OMT; we do source and contact research. Yet last Friday there was a call saying: I think you need more people. In the meantime, not everyone has done that source and contact research. So the question is: how can we trust that as of 11 May and with all the positive care workers tested, and with all the positive teachers tested, and with all the positively tested daycare staff, that source and contact research is still being carried out? Will you finally use, take seriously and incorporate the WHO's expertise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u342	Just a few steps back, though. We followed the OMT recommendation on April 6th. We usually do that; we follow the OMT recommendations. That we choose a policy of testing, tracing and reporting from home we discussed with your Chamber from April 7th. We are. What is at issue now is the addition of a new group. Mr Asscher is right to ask: has there been any source and contact research in the last few weeks? No, it's not. That's exactly what I reported. How many people did that happen to and how many people didn't? I can't report that right now. I have said this in the direction of Mr Asscher. I'd be happy to reconstruct how that went. The GGDs themselves made their own personal decisions as quickly as that went to make sure that much more source and contact research could be done than usually has to be done with an average GGD in a normal month. Meanwhile, in most regions there is something of source and contact research in some form. In Brabant too, there has always been source and contact research in some form, but mostly in the not so labour-intensive form of advice to those who have been tested positively to inform especially those who have encountered them over the past period. I am going to tell you which part and in which provinces, which regions, has succeeded and where it has not been possible or otherwise to continue to do that source and contact research in the coming period, because I want to know that myself. I agree with Mr Asscher that there will be more testing in the coming period, simply because of the test choices we are making. That's what I'm supposed to do. This means that more source and contact research is needed. That's the question we asked. We have said: chart how much human commitment you need for this. That has been a question of the direction of the GGD. That is currently being mapped out. That is, at some point, in the direction of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u343	Finally. The whole story of the Prime Minister, the sigh "we can't do more than we can do now" and the lack of perspective for people who are concerned all depends on us having too little vision of spreading the virus. That's one of the cabinet's three anchor points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u344	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u345	We hear now: no, it is not the case that everyone who is tested positively is doing source and contact research. That's not true at all. It is now in order in a number of places because the GGD itself has hired people. The cabinet must say to the GGD that anyone who is tested positive must be given such an investigation. Apps can support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u346	That's a long time ago...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u347	Or it's long gone and then it's extended, because there's a group coming in. Or it hasn't been long, and then on 6 April you didn't do what you said in the Chamber, namely testing, tracing, tracing and isolating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u348	On 7 April, we decided to increase the test capacity. I explained that to the Chamber. We were going to extend the test capacity to 17,500 to 29,000. That was the test capacity. We debated this last week. It was a lot of pushing and pulling to make sure that we switched on that test capacity first and could then provide sufficient stock. That was one element. The second element was that the OMT opinion said that this means that more source and contact research is needed. If you expand the test policy further, you probably won't be able to do all that manually. Either you have to hire a lot of people or you have to support it digitally. That's why we had to get started with this digital support. We worked that out. I have always been open to the fact that in the last few weeks of the crisis, the GGDs have not been able to do that source and contact research. We knew that, too. In Brabant they couldn't do it in the long run because of the huge increase in the number of infections. The GGD's are currently trying to do that source and contact research as much as possible. In the north of the country, it actually worked anyway. If you ask Sjaak the Shire how it is for his GGD, the answer is that it has always happened there. In Amsterdam it also works thanks to many more people who have been hired extra. In short, a lot of people have already been hired at the GGDs for that source and contact research. Has it worked out in every week the way it should? No. That's what I've always said. I'm going to map out for you to what extent that did and didn't work out, because it also has to do with the next steps you're taking. We know one thing for sure: if we test more, we get more positive infections and so we have to do more source and contact research, which in turn requires more people. Those are the steps we're just taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u349	I actually share the concerns on this subject. First of all, we are dealing with the public's confidence in the current approach. We cannot lose that confidence by making a big mistake when it comes to the app, the privacy and all kinds of risks involved. That's the first thing. The second is that testing is indeed extremely important and that the app only makes sense in combination with testing. If we then put all the cards on a technical solution that is still very uncertain, then it is also unmistakable whether we can go all the way down this road and whether we have a clear view of the spread, contamination, tracing and containment of the virus. I know that a great appeal has been made in New Zealand to the people to keep up with the very old cabbages. There was asked to keep a log of your own and to register yourself who you saw and met. That apple could be done by now. Now we put all the cards on a technical solution, which we don't know is within reach. I appreciate the openness with which that attempt has been made. The same applies to the seven companies that signed up and stuck their necks out. But in the meantime we don't know if it has a happy ending and there is a lot at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u350	That notebook, I honestly don't believe in that. When I've taken the subway, I usually don't know who I've been on the subway with. If you're walking down the street and you've been around people, that's the same thing. None of that is true at the moment. We now have the general measure to stay home as much as possible. We have the general rule that you stay home when you snot. If anyone in the family has a fever, the whole family stays home. We have all kinds of home quarantine-like measures. If you would get some more traffic on the street in a next phase of a lock, it is of course impossible to keep track of who you've all been in touch with. This is also the disadvantage of classical source and contact research. The same goes for a notebook. I'm not staring blindly at a digital solution. If that digital solution can't be because it's not safe, we just shouldn't do it. It's as simple as that. But then, as Mr Klaver says, we will have to organise the analogue work process in a smarter way. That must then be done in a way that helps and those work processes accelerates et cetera. Then that's what we're gonna have to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u351	Of course I also see the disadvantages of keeping a notebook and looking where you've been. There's that downside. But I do share the order of things. You start with the goal. That's having a good view of the spread and movements. The cure is secondary. And I will say it once again: the whole policy stands or falls with the confidence of the people. If you turn in your privacy or reveal something about yourself, good things must be done with it and should not fall into the wrong hands. So in order to keep that support alive, in order to keep the goal in mind, we need to make the resources subordinate, and there could also be that relapse option. New Zealand does it, it could work here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u352	I don't think so. A notebook, I really don't believe in that. By the way, when it comes to trust, I very much agree: of course it is about trust. That's why it's always good to add: in the regular source and contact research you discuss more personal data with the person at the GGD than you will ever do in a digital solution. Those two things can really strengthen each other. But that can only be done if you really have faith, and so only if it's safe, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u353	We all understand the importance of the source and contact research to identify who infected persons have been in contact with. This may be supported by a digital app, provided it meets the right conditions, and that is not the case at the moment. But if we're going to scale up that source and contact research to the maximum, that testing is crucial. Because if we can't test, then the answer to source and contact research is: just to be safe, stay at home. But the whole debate is also about the question: how do we get this one-and-a-half-metre society going, and how do we give everyone more freedom and openness in different economic sectors, education and so on? Now, on 26 March, on 1 April and in the debate this evening, I asked: those 29 000 tests, which we are now working towards, are sufficient to enable everyone in education and in all those other sectors to be tested, outside of care? I still haven't heard a concrete answer to that. Is 29,000 enough for the whole of the Netherlands, or should we go to another number? And if we have to go to another number, what week does the Minister expect to achieve that, with all the efforts he and the Special Envoy make on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u354	This is a fair question. That assessment is not at all easy to make. Look, where it's about vulnerable people, that's where it fits. When it comes to the sectors you want to join, the care, education, childcare, that's where it fits. For carers it gets tighter, but that depends on what selection you make within the carers, because some of them are also among those vulnerable groups. So we are going to work on that in the next few weeks, and then I can also give a better answer to Mr Jetten's question. 'Cause all these things are connected, you're absolutely right. So there's the number of tests you can do, the source and contact research you need to do. And derived from that is the question: in what way would you want that to be digitally supported? But it starts with the test policy you're putting in, and that's testing, tracking and reporting from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u355	Good. You'll come back to that, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u356	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u357	Very briefly, perhaps, Mr. Chairman. Could the Minister, in his next letter, give an estimate of when this clarification will come about? 'Cause we've been asking for that for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u358	Yeah, I'd like to try that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the personal protective equipment. A number of things have already been said about this, but quite a lot has been said about it several times. So I'd like to try to do it somewhat narrowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u359	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u360	Yeah, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u361	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u362	That's better, sure. There's scarcity, still, but it's getting better. The air bridge with China, which has now been built via Seoul, is increasingly stable; actually, grosso modo, an airplane every day. Astronomical numbers of stuff have been ordered, and they are also starting to come in better and more stable, actually as power. I mentioned the numbers in the letter, so I'm gonna skip them. In that we see that things are getting better. The second is that the distribution goes better; the distribution between the cure and care is better, and that too is important. Again, we still have signs of tightness. Of course, they're not just gone, but less than before. About the mouth caps, they're just a little less concerned than they were a week ago. Last week's concern was now in particular the aprons, exactly, and fortunately we see a new stream again. In short, it's very hard work, but it's better. That doesn't mean that the cut is gone, and that also means that the uncertainty hasn't gone away from the people in the care. Last Monday I went to work, and I have seen and heard and felt at close range what that feels like for people in care; it is that things are getting better now, but also that people still feel insecure. As you know, in the previous debate, we said that Easter will be able to come up with this distribution model. That distribution model has come about and that is also starting to work well, but not all the uncertainties about that distribution model are gone. Mrs Marijnissen gave an example of this. That "volatile" is a word that just doesn't work out well in practice. That cannot be explained in practice, so that word 'volatile' should be deleted. So that's one of the things that just needs to be clarified. ActiZ posted a message about that outside today or yesterday. A number of things really need to be clarified. That is what I had with Martin van Rijn just before we had this debate. It's gonna be clearer, too. In addition, it is necessary to continue to clarify what the Directive is based on. In fact, all the reports on scarcity have caused concern in the care sector, and you continue to hear that the RIVM directive was designed in particular to distribute the scarcity as well as possible. I would like to say this very clearly: the RIVM directive was designed precisely to show what kind of care you need which protection you need. When is it safe, just based on medical advice? That is the RIVM directive: the basic safety that is needed. So if we stick to the RIVM directive, we are doing well. The difficulty is that some employers look into their stock, have more than what is strictly necessary and say: do not benefit or harm it. That is the point: it does harm. Not you directly, but in the sense that you undermine the confidence of others that the RIVM directive is indeed safe enough. That makes it incredibly difficult to communicate this properly. The RIVM Directive is based on what is safe. That's the medical advice. That's one. Two. I understand the feeling "can I trust it enough?" Still do. It is therefore also important to continue to express that confidence in the RIVM Directive, to communicate on it properly and, if there are any uncertainties, to remove those uncertainties. We also need to communicate properly how to use and apply this directive, and if there are any questions about it, act quickly. That is something that Martin van Rijn and I take every day to land in a good way, and so do drivers, employers and workers' organisations. That's very hard work. Appropriate use, that's what we call it. That's incredibly important. In short, we should not use it as a precaution. The OMT has said that it is not necessary, but it is not desirable either given the current scarcity. That is the difficult message. The directive is only based on safety, but the way in which we are dealing with scarcity at the moment, of course, means that we must stick to that directive and do nothing more than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u363	I would like you to conclude this matter. Mr Dijkhoff will then be given the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u364	I have a few more questions I really need to answer. Mr Klaver asked a question about unsuccessful offers. Last week, a number of others asked the same question. The question then was: we get a lot of offers here and there and also belong to that, when those with an offer report to the LCH, that are not always followed in a good way. I checked that out. Of a number of offers it is true that they have not been fully followed up in all the crowds. If it's okay, you know about that, too, because you gave them to me. But if an offer isn't followed up, I can see that sometimes loudly in the newspaper or on social media, there's usually something else going on. For example, if a product does not meet the required quality requirements, then wedding prices are used, parties do not exist at all, then one wants to be paid in advance for a party that we have not yet seen, or then one tries to sell a party that we had already bought or which was already in the picture with us. In short, things are happening. It's really good to know exactly what's going on. This also plays a bit into the question put by Mr Klaver, without wanting to get involved in this particular case, about the CE marking. The quality of products has to be tested at a number of times, namely before they get on the plane, mostly in China, otherwise they create cargo space that we could otherwise have used, and when they arrive here on the test street. In particular, the inspection in China is indeed a health mark inspection. Why do you do that? Because then you have an idea of what might be in that box. If you don't comply with a quality mark, then that's what it's about: quality assessment, you can't be sure that it meets the quality. That didn't go well a few times. Then there was accidentally stuff coming this way that just didn't meet the quality requirement. That can also be dangerous for the people who think they are sufficiently protected but not at the end of the day. In short, we do these tests on a structural basis exactly on the label, but also on what is actually in the box, because it simply has to be because of safety. Mr Dijkhoff has mentioned an important signal, which I recognize. It's one of those things that's not going well right now. It's about people getting a pgb. They are covered in the distribution model, because usually they are district nurses and so on, but often they are zzp'ers, who are not part of a district nurse organisation, or who work at a very small organization. They can report to a ROAZ a little harder. It will happen and then they will be delivered. But people find it more complicated to get to work there. In an informal pgb, where there is covid contamination, it is even more complicated to know where to be. That is what we have to do these days: with the pgb's in particular better arrange the distribution. It is not just about the distribution model, because that is not so much the point. Where can they put their question? should they also report to ROAZ or can we arrange it closer to home, for example through the general practitioner or through the pharmacist or in another practical way just nearby? They'll take the order of all thezzp'ers in the neighborhood. The association for small-scale care has set up its own distribution network. That actually works quite well, but not all pgb'ers can go there. But it is a point that Mr Dijkhoff is right to raise. I hope to get out of there in the next few days. With this, I'm at the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u365	I get the story that we have to stick to the guidelines. Unfortunately, it is not so simple with the pgbs in our country that you can say: the people who need it most are in the hospital, then come the nursing homes and then the people with a pgb. There are just people who arrange care at home through the pgb, and before Corona was discovered at all, they had to be invaded every day. They run extreme risks compared to people in a nursing home. We do hear that there is a tendency to say that nursing homes take precedence. Therefore, if there is even more preventive use in nursing homes, there is simply someone who needs it badly, but does not come up, because the extended demand of the nursing home is greater than purely the demand under the directives. On the other hand, it is, of course, difficult to explain to people, because that is how I understand that the directives are, also because of scarcity. So you might say in eight weeks' time: now you can do it preventively, because we have enough by now or because Mr Baudet's infinite stock has arrived. I'd like that, I'd say. So it's kind of hard to switch. What you can do in three weeks, you really shouldn't do now. Of course, your own feeling says: I'm going to help someone and I want to protect; let's use them when they lie there. But that flow to the pgb-people must really get going, because otherwise very tragic incidents are going to happen there, because a mouth cap is preventive use, which was not necessary according to the directives, when it was necessary elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u366	You're absolutely right. This is exactly the dilemma. The basis for the directive is: what is safe in what care? That is the basis for the directive. But the directive is, of course, about appropriate use. The need for this directive at all has to do with the fact that there is a shortage. If there is no shortage, it doesn't matter at all. Then you'd say, "Better safe than sorry" solutions, because what difference does it make? But in this case it is true that, if it is unnecessary, it is not desirable either, because there is still a shortage. If the scarcity is lifted, it is indeed a very different story. That makes all the discussions on protective equipment so incredibly complicated at the moment, because we just don't know exactly when we're out of that period of scarcity. Yeah, it's getting better with what comes in. That's right. Yeah, it's getting better with the production being built up. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u367	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u368	But we're not done; that's absolutely true. We need to solve the pgb, because they need to know where they can go. Mr Baudet had just asked one more question which I would come back to. It was about the production. We can see that the use is increasing. This is partly due to the number of patients who are increasing, but this is partly due to the fact that more and more people, including those in care, also wear caps if at least that is not prescribed by the directive. You just see the usage increase. So it's not that easy to make a good prognosis of what's needed. When we started that production, we tried to do it for the FFP2 masks. In a few weeks, it was possible to scale from 1.2 million to 1.5 million. This would produce just over a quarter of the necessary 4 million FFP2 masks. But those are all very "approximately numbers," so I'm careful to look at those numbers this way. I think it's hugely profitable that we can do more through production. I put the numbers more precisely in the previous letter. Also this time I put a number of numbers in it, but last time they were about the production.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u369	But production is not import.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u370	The import numbers are also, even very comprehensively, in this week's letter. We try to make an assessment of that every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u371	Yes, but imports are different from own production. Scissors are not on the world market. This week, I spoke with a number of Dutch importers, Dutch companies from China and other countries. They say that within ten days they can bring an unlimited quantity of all certified masks, in all the dishes that are available, to the Netherlands. I saw the charts myself. It's gotten more expensive, that's true. But you'll have to say that. Then you must say that it is an economic consideration and that you do not want to pay it. Then you're gonna have to figure out if that lockdown's worth counting. It is not that it is difficult to bring 10, 15, 20 million of these caps to the Netherlands within a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u372	If you actually make that happen, we'll have a deal right away. Really. Let's make a deal now. But it's not true. It really can't be. There's scarcity all over the world. In addition, there is a shortage of raw materials. The only country that actually produces large-scale production is China. The United Kingdom has a huge deficit. They don't even know how to protect themselves in the hospitals anymore. All countries in the world have a problem of scarcity in some way. What is distorting is that some countries go much further, even with hoods on the street. But that's a very different type of quality cap. That's not the kind of cap you're safe with in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u373	That's true. I recognize that there are different types of caps. The point is that the world market is there, but prices have gone up a bit. Well, that's the trade-off. It's not like you can't have those things. I can just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u374	I'd say come through with the phone numbers. We're gonna check them all out. If you can set up a production facility with this type of numbers within two weeks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u375	In the Netherlands? No, of course that's a whole different story. Own production is quite different from imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u376	Come on through with the numbers. We're gonna call them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u377	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u378	Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u379	Mr Segers, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u380	Last question, but an important one, namely on protective equipment in nursing care. The Minister says that there is still a shortage, so we have to deal with it in a sensible way. At the same time, there is great concern about this personal protection. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says: once this scarcity is no longer there, will these resources also be used preventively, even outside the corona departments and in nursing homes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u381	Let me give you the example I came across last Monday. That was in the neighborhood nurse's office. A district nurse said: I find it very annoying, I stick to the directive very well, because I know that it has been carefully thought about, because the directive is clear and also helps, and because the distribution model also works to our advantage, but when I get into a flat, one of the five district nurse teams has decided to take care of themselves to prevent the use of protective equipment. This means that this district nurse has to explain to every lady where she comes in that the neighborhood nurse does have preventive protection and has to cross the threshold with a cap while the person who lives there is not a covid patient. This means that she has to explain that her concern is nevertheless safe that she adheres to the directives that exist. That's what makes it complicated. So I understand very well that there is a need for a sense of security. If there were no scarcity, I'd think, too, "Just do what you feel most comfortable with." But there is a shortage. And because there is scarcity, we must stick to what must be done, namely what is simply safe in accordance with the directives. Preventive use of personal protective equipment is simply not sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u382	I suggest you move on. No, Mr Segers!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u383	All right, then I'm going to the third block on the protection of vulnerable people. Of course, that starts with nursing care. A number of questions have been asked about the visitor scheme in nursing care, especially when more clarity can be found. I would very much like to do that, actually in the shortest possible way. But I have to do it carefully, because the number of infections is still increasing, fortunately especially in those locations that were already in the picture. Anyway, we can see that a virus is solid once it's a nursing home location inside. The number of new locations isn't growing so fast anymore. That's still somewhere around 900, but within those locations, the virus can just hit really hard. That means we have to be very precise. So we follow the advice of the OMT to simply maintain the visitor scheme, but we are also doing an investigation to gain more insight into how that virus behaves at a location. So how does it work with the infection? How does it work with that transmission? Those tests start, if it's okay, Friday. So they start in the very short term. The second is that we are working on a pilot to work out a visitor scheme that is actually just as safe, but something more humane than what we know to make true at the moment. That's how I'm actually trying to learn from that pilot for one or two weeks for the rest of the country. Or that could mean that there will then be a visitor scheme that will allow it to open up all over the country in a few weeks' time, is a question that I am very careful about. I hesitate to awaken that expectation, because it may well be that we say and that virologists also say to us: it can only be done in those areas where the R is at least below 1 and where the rate of infection is actually very low. It could be that those are the regions where you would dare to start with such a different visitor scheme rather than in the rest of the country. So it might well be that we want to apply a regional difference there. In short, we are going to work that out and we will come back to the Chamber when it has worked out far enough. Mr Segers asked about disability care. More generally, it is true that we should not forget disability care, because disability care is partly similar to nursing care. There too, people are vulnerable and it is very difficult to maintain these general hygiene measures. So once the virus is inside, it goes around pretty fast. We also see a large number of infections in the disabled sector and there is therefore every reason to worry. At all, many people with disabilities are people from a vulnerable target group. That's why people are worried. What does all this mean to me? What does it mean to me if I get pgb care at home? What does it mean to me when I get back on the street? Am I safe enough? It's the reason I spoke to the Minister of Disabled Affairs, Rick Brink, last Friday. That is also why we have almost daily contact with the sector to look at what is going on and what we can do extra for the sector. One of the things that goes on there, of course, is that visitor scheme. It's a little less stringent than the visitor scheme in nursing home care. It is also a little more suited to the disabled sector itself, but it is in itself 'no, unless'. It's not a big deal either. That's why people are talking to VGN and Each one of them to see how we can possibly adjust the visitor scheme there to make it more possible for parents to see their children and to let their relatives be with those they care about. So we are also trying to see whether there may be some step-by-step relaxation. But step by step and only if it's justified. Then I think, Mr President, that I have had the most important questions in this block. I'll check it out just in case. No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u384	Let's wrap this up first, shall we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u385	Yes. Mr Van der Staaij, for example, said: what are the possibilities for lowering financial thresholds linked to family and relationship support? That's what you wanted to ask, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u386	No, that wasn't him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u387	If the tension arises within a family, one can of course contact the local team for help, for example a district team. Professionals continue, just now, to do their job as well as possible, albeit with a little more distance. Furthermore, social neighbourhood teams keep their finger on the pulse with families. Mr van der Staaij also asked a question about the Eigen Force Centrale. Written questions have also been asked about this, and I will come back to that through the written questions. I had another one from Mr Krol. He asked if there were enough crisis areas if carers couldn't make it back home. Yes. The letter says what numbers. Speaking of which, about 1,200 are now occupied. But a lot more have been created. So there really is plenty of room for corona beds outside the hospital. So if you can't do it at home because you can't handle it, but you're not sick enough for the hospital, or if you're not sick enough for the hospital but you can't go home because you can't handle it, there's plenty of care organized. That's what all the G.D.D.s did. It's really very impressive what happened there. I think that was this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u388	Two points. First of all, the visitation scheme in the nursing homes, that pilot. Just as practical: does it mean that such a pilot is used in several places or is it in a limited number of places? And how can you sign up for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u389	I have a meeting tomorrow. So you're ahead of me. I'm gonna have to take care of it tomorrow. Yes, in several places, but not too many places, because then you can't see it properly. I would also like to try different variants. For ourselves, we have now created a concept of what such a visitor arrangement might look like. From Verenso they have offered an alternative and from a number of healthcare institutions they are also working on it. I'm gonna bring it together tomorrow. Then it's more about the design. What could such an arrangement look like? When do you qualify as a region for that? When do you qualify as an institution for that? Then we'll have to try it out on location. For example, I would like to advance one or two weeks on the rest of the country, so that if we were to extend that visitor scheme as a whole for the whole country, you would already have a number of practical experiences in order to get the children's diseases out of the new visitor scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u390	Thank you. We will look forward to the results of this with interest. Another question on the issue of supporting relationships and families. I heard from the professional care, for example the Dutch Association for Relationship and Family Therapy, that the route through the GP, the reference to the psychologist, falls away and that because of the financial problems people run into financial thresholds and that there is sometimes less occupation in the event of increasing tension. I find that a very worrying signal. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether he can discuss this with, for example, the NVRG, the Dutch Association for Relationship and Family Therapy, in order to remove the thresholds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u391	Yeah, I'd love to. I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u392	I have a question along the lines of Mr Van der Staaij's question and following on from Mr Segers' first-term question and the commitment to work with the pilot, to see if it could happen regionally if the R is sufficiently below 1. But I do not hear the Minister mention a time limit on which results can be expected from this. Can the Minister report it? Because there are quite a lot of people, especially in places where there are few infections, who crave them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u393	I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u394	Does the minister have a term? Can he indicate he'll be returning to it in the next briefing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u395	I said a few weeks. So I'm not necessarily going to sit on the next date, the 20th of May, because I really think that's too far away. At least I'm trying to do it a week earlier. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the block of varia. It's a very clear block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u396	That's what you think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u397	Yeah, actually, I do. What does communication to patients about scaling up delayed care look like? That is what we are doing with the Patient Federation, of course, in order to give as clear information as possible about the scaling-up. Communication about the passage and scaling up of regular care is very important. Too much has been postponed. There is also fear in people that the hospital is a safe place to go. It starts with fear of going to the GP. That is why we can see that there is a fairly high level of demand in healthcare at the moment. So we have to communicate well: it is safe if you go to the doctor, it is safe if you go to the hospital, you can go there again. That's absolutely necessary. The order in which it has to be done depends on the plan that each hospital is currently making and aligning in the region, in accordance with the NZa directive. So the NZa and the Patient Federation are in this together. Why are older people on ICU less often? That was a question from Mr Krol. That is an important question because it is very important to continue to stress that age does not matter. Age doesn't matter in the sense of: can you go to the ic? It can't be like that. We are doing everything we can to make the ic capacity so broad that there is never a capacity argument not to go to the ic. However, the fact that general practitioners are talking to the elderly about whether they can handle this is, of course, justified. That conversation with the elderly was also held for COVID every day: are you able to undergo those treatments? It's just called deciding together. It's wide in the care experience to do that, and that's what's happening here. That's the explanation. The MP Van Kooten asked a question, a question that was also in a set of written questions, about the OMT opinions that were not numbered. You only received two documents: one of 24 January and one of 27 February, the number 56 and 57. You asked in the written questions: yes, but what about those other numbers? They were about something else. When you knew this answer, you asked: was there no OMT at all between 24 January and 27 February? The answer is no. There hasn't been an OMT. Yeah, but what happened? A lot of things have happened, but no OMT. Can I get all the pieces that have been produced in the meantime? Yes, someday, but not now, because I have to ask the same people who are now fighting the crisis. Those are all people from the Public Health Department and people from the RIVM. I can't clear it right now to pull all the pieces together. A lot of WOB requests have been made, dozens. Mr Baudet asked a fair question about this: there will be public access, will there not? Yes, of course there will be, but I can't live up to it now, because the people who have those pieces on their computer and in their system are all people who are now simply in the crisis organisation. So it's coming as fast as it can, but not right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u398	I have to say that things seem to go wrong. Let me give you an example. In OMT's opinion number 56, on 27 January, it was advised to classify COVID-19 as category A disease and make it mandatory. Then, in reply to the questions put by Mr Hermans, you indicate that this happened on 28 January. Next, in De Telegraaf on 26 March, it says that doctors are ringing the alarm clock because there may be a lot more coronados than we can now estimate. A spokesperson of the GGD Noord- en Midden-Limburg says: that directive the doctor is talking about has never been there from the RIVM. And what does the doctor say? He says: we often have strong suspicions, but we do not have to report this miraculously. Apparently, the GGD says that COVID-19 is not an A-disease, not classified...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u399	Yes, I do. Oh, yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u400	Well, apparently the GGD in North and Central Limburg is not aware of that. Things seem to go wrong. That is why I think it is extremely good that journalists' requests for WOB should be supported for more information, because journalists have an important role to play in monitoring the measures taken by the Cabinet in this crisis, just like the Parliament. Things seem to go wrong. I note that from 24 January to 27 February there were no RIVM opinions, no OMT opinions, but that the Prime Minister said on 2 March: we are taking all decisions and measures on the basis of expert opinions. Then I'd like to know from the Minister how it could be such a mess. How can this be so unclear? And why don't you open up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u401	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen does tie up a lot of things. Maybe I should try to dissect them. The OMT decides whether to meet or not. That's what the OMT is self-sufficient in. There is no request from the cabinet to the OMT: please come together, because something is going on. No, they do it themselves. We have chosen to meet on 24 January and 27 February, but you do not have to conclude that nothing has happened since then or in between. That's one. Two. Yeah, it's qualified as A disease. That happened at a very early stage with Bruno Bruins on the Council of Ministers. I don't remember the exact date, but it's really in a very early stage qualified as A disease. All kinds of obligations flow from that. Three. You're quoting someone from De Telegraaf in March. I always read De Telegraaf very well. Usually it is perfectly true what is written in De Telegraaf; that is my experience. But I don't remember this one for a while. If someone from Limburg might have said in De Telegraaf that it is not qualified as A disease, that is not true. It is indeed qualified as A disease, especially in the beginning, point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u402	It was a spokesperson of the GGD Noord- en Midden-Limburg, who says...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u403	Maybe you could send me the play outside the broadcast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u404	I'll send it down to the office. I would very much like the Minister to return to that in the second term. Would you like to explain once again how it is that the WOB requests of journalists are not being honored? It is precisely in times of crisis that it is really necessary for journalists and Parliament to receive the answers they need to control the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u405	That's right. You're absolutely right. I would like to explain the background to this reaction to all kinds of WOB requests. Everything must be as transparent as possible and everything is or becomes transparent. There will be nothing left of all the pieces that have been there. By the way, of a lot of things we just have to decide aren't that easy to find pieces at all. That is what we have to decide. Before a piece can be made, you already have the decision to make. That's one. Two. We've received dozens of WOB requests as VWS alone. Other departments have also received dozens of WOB requests. There are a lot of WOB requests. WOB requests already take a lot of time anyway, but at this moment it would take time for people in the Public Health Directorate, in the Health DG column and at RIVM. Let's just leave the people out there putting out the fire. I'm not gonna ask the fire department to get behind the computer. I want the fire department to put out. With all the people who have submitted a WOB request, we have had a conversation: "Of course, you will get your pieces. You get everything you ask, just not right now, because those people are needed for the work that needs to be done right now. Afterwards, the window is open again for WOB requests. An emergency, there's no other way." Of course, this must be as short as possible, because the WOB is not for nothing and the transparency requirement is not for nothing either. You have to stick to that if you can. So we're going to do that as soon as we can, but right now we can't accept that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u406	It is now at least suspended until 1 June and can be renewed if the measures are renewed. I have to say that the Volkskrant made a great reconstruction on 11 March based on anonymous sources within the Ministry. Apparently, that's what reporting time is for. It has been completely reconstructed what has gone wrong, that there has been much too late, that February is actually a lost month and that there have been real mistakes. How is it possible that there is time for this and that this is not possible via the fancy way: a WOB request to make everything public and to check it? I don't understand any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u407	At least you can't blame VWS for not being transparent. I don't know if that happened on the basis of anonymous sources. I just don't know, I really don't. I'm not there. Anonymous sources do not usually report to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u408	I shall also pass on that article to the public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u409	I'm getting a whole reading folder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u410	Yes, because it cannot be, even in the words of Professor Wim Voermans, that the minister controls the country with a handful of experts and that we cannot then check whether they are doing it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u411	Yes! Those are really caricatures. Indeed, we control the country at a very complicated time, with the rhythm of decision-making going so much faster than usual. There's no more peace to make a memo. You've already decided to make the decision before the memo can be finished at all. That's the situation we're in. By the way, we do this in perfect transparency. I already find the OMT advice on nos.nl before we have been able to make a decision on it as MCCb at all, so I think we are rather transparent. There's no reason to keep things from me either. We're just working for a while, so we don't have time to collect all the pieces. That's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u412	I would like to make a final comment on this. For example, I asked Parliament questions, more than 20 parliamentary questions, about flying to New York, the fireplace there. Then there is a paragraph in the letter of the Chamber about flying and then there is a sentence underneath: to this I consider the questions of Van Kooten-Arissen's Chamber to be answered. The same applies to D66's parliamentary questions on the apps that I have co-submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u413	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u414	It really makes me wonder that these parliamentary questions are simply not answered properly, but in one paragraph. It is so important that we have the right information in this crisis and that we can control the cabinet. I really can't, and I'm making a point of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u415	It is right that you are making a point of this, but I have no choice but to be honest about it. There is always a limit to the number of people you can put to work in this crisis. We've assigned doubles to the department in all crucial positions. Those are people who are really working all the battles, working day and night to fight the crisis. That's what they're doing. Meanwhile, dozens of sets of parliamentary questions have been submitted. I can't say you can't do that. Of course not. You may ask all the questions you wish to ask, but I must also stand for our people in which they have to spend their time and also a little less. What they need to make their time on is at least the fight against crisis. I've told you before, I'll send you a letter once a week. I'll get to that in a minute, because I think it's wiser to change that rhythm a little bit. I'll send you a letter once a week. I try to take away as many questions as you asked them in that week in that letter as possible. A few sets with which I can't do that, I'm still trying to take it off out there. But I'm not gonna let the whole department deal with questions of parliament. Then they won't be able to get into reality, so we shouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u416	I'm gonna let it work out for a while, because I think that's the job. Anyway... Is it true that I had asked the question that the information campaign on the new donor law has stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u417	One second, and I'll say it very precisely. Yeah, that's right. This campaign has been temporarily suspended and we are currently exploring whether or not the donor law will enter into force on 1 July and which information is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u418	Could one of the reasons why organs of patients with the coronavirus are not welcome?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u419	I don't know. I actually think that all the people who should be working on this are now fighting the crisis. That's the lake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u420	But you're going to inform us more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u421	Yeah, I'm happy to. That's good. Then perhaps one more point, and that is indeed about me not being of the letters. We have been used to every evening every evening sometimes it was early in the morning the next day after the MCCb to send a letter with the whole state of affairs, in which we describe everything that is going on with regard to the crisis response. That's a very intensive job. That's what we're trying to do to inform you as well as possible, but it would be much more sensible to inform you when an actual new set of decisions is being made. We're going very carefully into the next phase. We are at the very beginning of that next phase, but it seems wiser to go once every two weeks for that stand-of-business letter and then everything that is simply to be done from the cabinet's information obligation towards the Chamber is done in between. Once every two weeks such an extensive stand-of-business letter gives less pressure on department, does more justice to the decision-making rhythm in which we are now going to end up and perhaps even to the debate rhythm in which we are going to end up. I thought it would be good to announce that. Then I'll be at the end of the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u422	This is actually a proposal for how we are likely to debate each other in the next few weeks, so it is actually an order proposal that you are making now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u423	Of course, I'm not going to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u424	No, no, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u425	We come every day you invite us. It is more about how the cabinet would like to inform the Chamber. We want to do that once every two weeks in a stand-of-business letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u426	Members of Parliament can respond to that here. Otherwise, we'll do it at another time. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u427	It is, of course, up to the cabinet with what frequency it sends the letters, but it is up to the Chamber to decide when it wants to debate. The Minister is right to say so. I am not saying that we have to do so now, but in principle we agreed with each other that we should do it every week. So every two weeks that letter is to you, but I do want to have it marked out that the Chamber is about when you come here to debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u428	Sure, you should.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u429	I agree. I noticed that the letter itself said: we will inform you about the follow-up to the apps next week. I do not think that we should now receive letters at different times. I thought it was very good that we were getting it bundled together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u430	I think that's gonna be two weeks from now. Look, what if the visitor scheme actually makes it work? Then I guess I'm not gonna wait for me to write another letter to the Chamber. Then I'm just gonna call you in because I think I have an active disclosure obligation. Even if I didn't, it was in the Constitution. So we just have to do that if there's anything to report. On its own, in the normal rhythm I wait with everything that can wait until the next stand-of-business letter until the next stand-of-business letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u431	I had kept one question, because I got the impression from my questions about livestock farming that there was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u432	You figured it out, didn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u433	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u434	Okay, the Prime Minister. Because I wanted to point out that I purposely did not charge the VWS Ministry with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u435	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u436	If the Ministry of LNV then waits four weeks, I will address the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u437	Then we wait for a moment to clean the chair. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u438	Mr. Chairman. I have one thing to correct, and I still have a few quick answers, because Mr Klaver said I shouldn't go too far either. So I tried to answer a few things after all. What I need to correct is about primary schools. I said in the first term that this could be done by half a day, but today it has been shown that this cannot be done, because problems arise with extracurricular care. Schools themselves are given the opportunity to complete education at their school, based on whole days of education and half the time of education. Schools and extracurricular care are looking together to see how the connection between school and bso can be achieved as effectively as possible. That's because of something I said in the first term and what wasn't right. So it's not half days, it's whole days, but half the time of education. I would like to turn to the question by Mr Jetten. The cabinet believes it is important to ensure its continuity. We're talking to the transport companies and local authorities. It looks at what is needed, both in the short term and in the longer term, when the economy can gradually scale up again. Then there's the question about students and the MBO. For the MBO, these students can also borrow more and DUO, of course, will also be able to use their coulance. This also applies to paying the tuition fees collected by DUO. There is no need to extend the right of residence, since in the MBO the nominal duration of study plus three years applies. For levels 1 and 2, it's even unlimited. Also for the MBO, OCW will be in conversation in the coming period. To the question about the NOW, the purchase of own shares, the answer is: yes, that is obvious. It is also part of the conditions in the supplementary group provision, which has now been reported to me. So besides dividends and bonuses, this is already in there. In this respect, however, the requirement for an audit opinion applies. It'll be necessary. That again has to do with the maintenance of small businesses. Then there is Mrs Ouwehand's question about the stables. For this reason, there seems to be no overcrowded stables at the moment. As long as slaughterhouses can continue to operate, the problem of overcrowded stables is avoided as much as possible. Sectors which see their demand partially disappear due to a change in demand from the catering industry or from abroad and therefore possibly get too full stables, are also taking measures themselves. For example, a number of farms in the poultry and duck sectors themselves have decided not to start a new production round on a temporary basis. The calf sector currently imports fewer calves. And the Minister of LNV, Mrs Schouten, remains in consultation with the sectors to closely monitor the situation. The questions asked on 24 March were answered on 26 March. Four questions have not yet been answered. The Minister of LNV has promised to come back to this. They will be sent to the Chamber no later than next week. Finally, because there was also a question from Mr Dijkhoff about sport, Mr Van Rijn has a meeting with the representatives of the sports sector tomorrow morning. Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u439	Thanks to the Prime Minister, but it shouldn't be like that. How does he feel about the fact that crucial questions remain unanswered for so long? For example, how does it work in those stables? The abattoirs are losing control. Then you have less supervision and greater risks of food safety scandals and animal welfare violations. If I listen to the Prime Minister, those questions will remain unanswered for five or six weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u440	You put them on March 24th. I believe that the deadline is three weeks, that there can be a delay and that the Minister has reported, as I am reported here, that those answers will come by next week at the latest. That's the week of April 28th. That's past the three-week period, but since she called it in, I think it's possible. I don't answer a lot of Parliamentary questions myself, but I thought you could ask for one reprieve. Apparently, that's what she did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u441	No, she didn't. Indeed, she has answered a whole section of the questions quickly and thank you for that, but those were not painful questions. Of these, who really are about the suffering that is going to happen in those stables and about the misery in the slaughterhouses, she said: answer follows as quickly as possible. Well, I don't find five weeks later as soon as possible, especially since it's live animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u442	I was informed that she said: I will come back to it. Question now learns that they will be answered next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u443	I heard the Prime Minister say that he also thinks that restricting bonuses is a logical condition in supporting companies. Now we have just understood that the top man of Air France-KLM, Ben Smith, on the proposal of the Supervisory Board, will receive a higher bonus in his infinite wisdom as Ben Smith acquires more support for Air France-KLM from the taxpayer. Read: "We." Maybe it's useful and efficient too, then Hoekstra doesn't have to look at it again first. That immediately makes it clear to the shareholder that we don't want to do that, so we all don't want to do that. That's really ridiculous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u444	I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u445	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u446	Mr President, thank you. I thank the Cabinet for its reply. I would also like to say to them: hang in there. Because today, of course, the main focus is on things that are not going well. When one problem is solved, we may mumble "fine," but then the next problem comes to light. When I heard the discussion about the apps, I also thought: it would really help. If that app doesn't work, I'm sure we'll find another way, but it's really gonna slow down. I know all the demands that are now being made on the app, but I would like to argue in favour of a weighting. Fine, it's everyone's right not to want an app, if it's ahead of us, because it doesn't like it, but it's not without consequences. This means that other things in society - entrepreneurs who want to be open, other activities that we want to have together - will be able to see each other again later and will entail a lot of social costs. It's always easy to jump on something when something doesn't deserve the beauty prize and it's in the paper, but I've never seen an app developed so quickly. That's probably why such a sausage is mostly turned in silence in the background and not in front of the public. But it is necessary that there be and that we work towards it and not try to do it. He can fail in 1,000 ways and only succeed in one way. The search is for that one way. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the IMT or whatever it's called. I'm glad it's coming. Be flexible in that, too. It should not be difficult in the structure; look outside the appropriate frameworks of organisations that often do a report for many years, and also involve entrepreneurs from the sector in the proposal that is before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u447	Thank you. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u448	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to read it to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that parents who do not want to let their children go to school after the May holidays are not fined for this for the time being,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that testing policies have been extended to include care, education, childcare and enforcement;]] [[Considers, for example, that packers, bus drivers and cashiers are also at increased risk of contagion with corona;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that everyone can be tested for mild complaints,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that catering establishments are closed, but that collection and delivery is permitted;]] [[calls on the government to allow catering companies to sell customers food or drink via the window and to let them eat it on the outdoor terrace if they can achieve the 1.5 meter distance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-278]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-279]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-280]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u449	Think of this as some kind of experiment in the hospitality industry. Finally, Mr President. Again, the money must be well spent, especially in times of crisis. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that billions of euros are still being spent on the European Union, climate, nitrogen, Africa and mass immigration;]] [[calls on the government to use these billions for care and the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-281]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u450	I think everyone wants everything to be open as soon as possible, especially the catering industry. But in the first term I heard Mr Wilders very critically about education. He said we shouldn't experiment there. That was actually what we did, so the education shouldn't open. Now we're gonna have to experiment with the catering business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u451	I think it was Mr Jetten who asked exactly the same question in an interruption in the first period. I've already answered that question. You can't compare these cases. I think it's just too early when it comes to education. The experts disagree. There are a lot of reports that say that there is also a transmission of children to adults. So I think that's premature. I think that's too soon. At the restaurant, I find it different. I believe that the rules should be observed there. The 1.5 meters must be maintained. The distances must be maintained. With outdoor terraces, so in public space, it should be possible. So it's not comparable. You can say very well: it is too early when it comes to the schools, but we have to give the catering industry the chance to open up again where it can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u452	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u453	Finally. I think it's interesting that the experts on education actually say "there are still a lot of uncertainties; we don't know exactly," but they just agree in the area of catering. There's no difference of opinion. That is what they say: we certainly should not do that. So I'm still looking for consistency in the way you come to make decisions. I am also asking for this for the following reason. We will not vote in favour of this motion. I imagine there are more colleagues who don't. But now it seems like we wouldn't want the catering industry to open up. I would like nothing more than that to happen, but the risks there are really too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u454	No, that's not true either. I'm not saying the catering industry should open. I am not saying that we should go back inside the catering industry, in a pub or in a restaurant. Perhaps you should have listened to the motion. I say in the motion: if customers can be sold through the window, which is often happening now, and they can also enjoy it on an outdoor terrace, I have explained this; it has to be done by 1.5 metres and it can be done with one or two people if it is done in this way, then it can be done quite responsibly and according to the rules. There's no contradiction in that, and there's no scientist against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u455	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u456	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my first term I talked about the need to conduct effective source and contact research. I referred to Mr Asscher, who spoke about this this weekend. During the first term, both Mr Marijnissen and Mr Wilders drew very clear attention to this and considered motions for resolutions. I share that this is necessary in addition to testing capacity and in addition to the use of digital devices such as apps. We've put our heads together, and it's my honour to table a motion that we're all under together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the control of the coronavirus and the alleviation of measures require that the number of new virus infections be controlled;]] [[Whereas extensive and effective source and contact research is essential;]] [[noting that there is insufficient capacity at the GGD for this and in other countries we see that people are being trained on a large scale;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare a comprehensive and effective source and contact research policy and to inform the Court as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Segers and Mr Klaver.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-282]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u457	I would like to use the speaking time I have left because I still owe Mrs Ouwehand an answer to a question that I really did not see coming. I have just spoken to my colleague, Mr Geurts, with whom she has a lot of debate. Although Mr Geurts and Mrs Ouwehand often disagree, he confirmed that there are questions in the poultry sector. In the duck sector, for example, production has already been brought down in consultation with LNV. But he also indicates that her demand to stop imports is very complicated and that it also has international factors. I would like to propose that, on this point, but also on the wider issue of how we deal with the livestock sector, I should like to ask the cabinet whether Minister Schouten can come up with a progress note on which these things are taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u458	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u459	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the emergency package of measures is aimed at maintaining as many jobs as possible;]] [[Calls on the Government to include, if possible, as a condition that companies using the NOW should not pay dividends or bonuses and should not purchase their own shares this year or next, taking into account a threshold, for example for SMEs such as Denmark;]] [[calls on the government also to broaden the scope of the extension of aid measures to include a better balance in which companies assisted in bad times will make a greater contribution in good times, for example by looking at tax structures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that universities and colleges of higher education remain closed to educational activities at least until 20 May;]] [[noting that teachers and staff are making every effort to provide the best possible distance education and to reduce study delay for students;]] [[Whereas, despite this, students may be delayed due to the fact that practical educational activities such as internships and practicals cannot take place, because of illness, additional care tasks or because exchange programmes had to be broken down;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is looking at an arrangement for flex workers now falling between shore and ship, including many students (motie-Gijs van Dijk et al., 35430, nr. 15);]] [[calls on the Government to reflect the impact on students of the corona crisis, to contribute to the maximum possible prevention of study delay, and to support students where necessary, e.g. in the event of study delay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Azarkan, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-283]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-284]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u460	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u461	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u462	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the NOW may be extended;]] [[whereas the Nijboer motion lays down further conditions for company-specific aid, but no additional conditions apply to the NOW;]] [[In the event of renewal of the NOW, the Government requests that the company concerned:]] [[does not pay dividends or buy shares in 2020 and 2021;]] [[refrain from bonuses and salary increases for drivers;]] [[all employees are paid their wages;]] [[report on their emission reductions in turnover above 750 million;]] [[does not maintain tax structures via tax havens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-285]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u463	Mr. Chairman. I would like to make one more point about protective equipment. Many thanks, we have indeed passed on a number of things to the Ministry, and we have received a good answer. I did think that was a dead end, and that sometimes something had slipped through. That's solved well now. As a result, production in the Netherlands has been preserved, and we are very happy with that. I would like to ask how the Ministry learns about this, so this does not depend on whether it ends up with MPs passing this on to the Ministry. These were really serious parties, and I find it worrying that they fell through and that they still do. I'm very curious to know how to put it just a little consultative, the ministry is also a learning organisation in that sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u464	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen van de SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on protective equipment. We are pleased that the Minister has promised to amend the directive, which, at least until today, said that if there was only a "volatile" contact with corona patients, protective equipment would not be necessary. We believe that all caregivers who need it are entitled to protective equipment. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a large number of caregivers who do not have access to protective equipment, while they are in close contact with people during their work, for example when distributing medicines;]] [[points out that all caregivers in nursing homes, disability care and elsewhere in care, who want to use protective equipment for their own safety to carry out their work, should also be able to use it,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-286]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u466	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u467	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new spread of the COVID-19 virus in the phasing-out of lockdown measures can only be prevented by means of source and contact research;]] [[Whereas the WHO can provide technical support for this, which is already being used in many countries;]] [[calls on the Government to use WHO support in addition to preparations for testing capacity and recruitment of source and contact research teams (according to the Heerma motion) and to extend the OMT to be used by behavioral experts and experts in source and contact research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the initial support package for different sectors and groups of workers required additional measures;]] [[Whereas, in considering the extension of the aid package, there is an opportunity to examine whether all the groups that need it are supported;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in the run-up to the extension of the aid package, whether and to what extent groups of workers and SMEs need additional support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-287]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-288]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u468	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u469	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u470	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for the answers. Thank you also for all the work of the cabinet and these rulers. I wish them a great deal of strength in the coming period, of course. In any case, the rhythm of the debates is likely to be different. I hope this helps. I have one more motion, which I would like to make on the issue of the broad desire to achieve broader advice and balance of interests. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the transition strategy requires an assessment of the effects on cure, care and general public health, the impact on different groups in society and the economy;]] [[Whereas the Outbreak Management Team states that the scaling-down of the measures should be considered from a broader perspective, in which the OMT is one of the expert medical advisors;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the Cabinet to be able to take decisions on the basis of a broader consideration of different perspectives and values;]] [[calls on the government to consider, in addition to the OMT, providing advice to other experts and, for example, setting up an Impact Management Team to advise the government from a broader perspective on the transition strategy and the social and economic effects of the crisis measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Jetten, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Klaver, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Wilders, Mr Baudet, Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-289]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u471	I think the motion's gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u472	I think so, too. Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u473	Thank you, Mr President. At the end of the support package for ornamental farming, agriculture had a successful mission and generous support from its own ministry, which was rather stark against support for the cultural sector. More support measures are being considered. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas consideration is given to possible additional support measures for a number of specific livestock sectors;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to impose conditions on biodiversity, climate and animal welfare in such cases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-290]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u474	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that demand for chicken meat has declined significantly in the European Union and the Netherlands;]] [[whereas several farmers' organisations have therefore called for the cessation of imports of chicken meat from outside the EU, in particular from Ukraine, Brazil and Thailand;]] [[calls on the Government to urge the incoming Councils to at least stop imports of chicken meat from outside the EU during the corona crisis and to obtain support for this position among other Member States,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-291]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u475	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that exports of veal have stopped;]] [[noting that calves now stay longer on farms and become overcrowded with all animal welfare problems;]] [[Notes that additional animal suffering and destruction of meat should be avoided;]] [[calls on the government to intervene in any event by stopping imports of calves,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-292]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u476	Well, then I actually have to say hi to my colleague Geurts, right? Here's to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u477	I like that very much. I hope that Mr Heerma will convey this. Thank you. I call Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u478	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna try. I have three motions. When it comes to testing, we really do understand that the Minister is doing his best, but don't put numbers in your letters: for weeks 29,000 more people. That creates false expectations. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the ability to test can reach 29,000 tests per day;]] [[noting that this number has been mentioned for weeks, but that only 7 000 tests per day are now being carried out;]] [[Whereas testing is of great importance for many people and professional groups;]] [[calls on the government to increase the number of tests per day to 29 000,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that due to the corona crisis, daily spending is not available;]] [[Whereas this is an additional burden on carers;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities and providers, to ensure that alternatives to daily spending are offered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol, Mr Van Haga and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-293]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Krol, Mr Van Haga, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-294]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u479	Finally, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that pneumococcal vaccination in the elderly will start in autumn 2020;]] [[noting that 550,000 vaccines are currently available according to the Health Council;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of prior initiation of pneumococcal vaccination for certain age groups.........................................................................................................................................................................]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-295]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u480	One more sentence, Madam President. The Minister said that the testing of carers will happen soon, but those carers would like to know when. Can he give us a date?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u481	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u482	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers for their reply and also to the Prime Minister for the words he wished to say about the death of our former colleague Van den Berg. I would like to return briefly to two points. First of all, thank you for the commitment of the Minister of Health to engage with EFT and NVRG and perhaps other organisations on lowering thresholds for access to professional assistance. We read in the letter or what the result is. Finally, on the economic aid package. It is very good that this is followed up. We are aware of the fact that a great many entrepreneurs are in the water, just as the restrictive measures continue. However, I also think it is nice to send out a rather counter-intuitive signal here today, that we also hear from a lot of entrepreneurs who say: yes, we are having a difficult time, but please remain a little critical of the way in which you are shaping this aid, because it must all be paid out of tax money in the end. They could sometimes claim, but they don't, because they think we're gonna be okay. I would also say that we pay tribute to those entrepreneurs who want to deal with this in this way at this time. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u483	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. We make regular compliments to the caregivers every time we debate here. I think it would be good to compliment the staff of officials, the OMT and all the others who have to make very difficult decisions. We all find something of that, but it is they who ultimately make those choices and implement them. Mr. Chairman. I'm filing a motion to repatriate people from abroad. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas repatriation of Dutch people who remain abroad is a top priority;]] [[whereas the European Union is working together to repatriate as many EU travellers as possible abroad, thus returning a large proportion of them;]] [[noting that the return of thousands of Dutch people still stuck in Morocco is extremely difficult;]] [[noting that the Moroccan authorities only give very low-cost permission for repatriation flights and that the lockdown in Morocco has been extended until 20 May;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint the return of Dutch and other EU residents to the European Summit on 23 April and to urge Morocco to make that return possible at the highest possible level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-296]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u485	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u486	First of all, promise makes guilt. I immediately worked on the FFP2 certified masks. We have many members and people in trade who approach us. Here I have a man who delivers to certified hospitals and pharmacies. It can deliver 4 million certified FFP2 masks at market rates within a week. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the cabinet, in line with the vote on the Omtzigt motion and also in line with our previous motion, not to agree to the German plan for Eurobonds, nor to all other possible plans for the introduction of eurobonds through the EU budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-297]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u487	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate how all the released nitrogen space can be used as a result of the corona crisis to put the economy back to work, increase the speed limit and accelerate housing;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-298]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u488	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the vast majority of the Netherlands are aware of the severity and extent of the risks of the corona epidemic;]] [[Whereas it is very unfair to require willing entrepreneurs to remain closed while being able to open up safely and responsibly;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to close down generic sector-wide closures as soon as possible and, in cooperation with local authorities, to make tailor-made openings for entrepreneurs who demonstrate responsible continuation of their business activities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas more needs to be done to help entrepreneurs stay liquid, remove uncertainty, implement measures more efficiently and reduce financial pressure;]] [[invites the Government to take note of these measures and others as described in "Ten proposals to the Cabinet to help entrepreneurs through the corona crisis" of Entrepreneurship Netherlands, and to consider them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-299]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-300]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u489	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u490	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u491	Mr. Chairman. So I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[mainly that it is necessary for journalists to be able to carry out their information and control tasks unhindered, not for nothing, especially in times of crisis;]] [[calls on the Government not to suspend WOB requests from journalists on the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to clarify on the basis of which opinions and of which experts have been taken Corona-related (precautionary) measures in the period between 24 January and 27 February and to send all relevant correspondence, in the broadest sense, to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-301]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-302]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u492	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has decided to extend most of the measures until 20 May 2020;]] [[Whereas this choice will lead to many bankruptcies in different sectors;]] [[calls on the Government to take a favourable view of exceptions to the measures, subject to a final protocol taking into account the corona measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the problem of corona varies from one province to another;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to take specific measures per province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the OMT consists only of medical experts;]] [[Whereas the current crisis should not be viewed only from a medical point of view;]] [[calls on the government at the next stage to include other experts, which are non-medics, in the OMT,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-303]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-304]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-305]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u493	Mr President, I would like to make a very small change in my motion on study deficits. I have had a good debate on this and I forgot to mention, in the first recital, the MBOs in addition to universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u494	Good. If you carry out the change by hand, I think it will be good on the voting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u495	De motion-Jetten/Pieter Heerma (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that universities, colleges and MBOs remain closed to educational activities at least until 20 May;]] [[noting that teachers and staff are making every effort to provide the best possible distance education and to reduce study delay for students;]] [[Whereas students may nevertheless lag behind in their studies, because practical educational activities such as internships and practicals cannot take place, because of illness, additional care tasks or because exchange programmes had to be broken down;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is looking at an arrangement for flex workers now falling between shore and ship, including many students (motie-Gijs van Dijk et al., 35430, nr. 15);]] [[calls on the Government to reflect the impact on students through the corona crisis, to contribute to the maximum possible prevention of study delay, and to support students where necessary, for example in the event of a study delay,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 284 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u496	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u497	Mr. Chairman. The answer to Mr Dijkhoff's question is yes. The answer to the question about the bonus from the top man of Air France-KLM is that I will pass that part of the debate on to the Minister of Finance. I cannot verify it all now, and it is not possible to establish it precisely now. So I would respond to media reports. They're usually correct, but I want to be sure. Then there's the motions. I have rarely said about a motion by Mr Wilders that I recommend it, but I can certainly do that with the Wilders/Asscher motion in part No. 278. I consider the deadline to be 'the first weeks', because I cannot see it exactly. Suppose for very good reasons a group of people is very concerned. I think you'll deal with it differently than if after a few weeks it turns out that it's actually going very well and it's without good arguments. But I can live with it so well. It also says "for the time being" and that is not limited. I remember when Mr Samsom said when we were talking about a 'limited number of weeks': 52 weeks is limited, but 1 week is also limited. Mr Asscher remembers that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u498	That's asking for a response. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u499	I can live with that explanation, provided that the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister agrees that if that "for the time being" is over as far as he is concerned, he will inform the Chamber accordingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u500	Yeah, good plan. I hope that there will be official listening, because that will be what Mr Slob will do. But sure, that's what we're gonna do. The motion in part No. 280, I'm not sure. I am a little surprised, but I did agree with Mr Klaver in the debate on the interruption. Where the OMT says it can be done with reservations, Mr Wilders says it cannot be done. And where the OMT says it can't, Mr Wilders says it can. Against that background, I really want to discourage this motion. Of course, it's not like I'm against open terraces. Please, as soon as possible. But it simply can't be done now. This is because the 1.5 meter is not so much about the terraces, but about the impact of opening up more sectors on the number of people on the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u501	It's a little lame, because I've explained this three times, but I'd like to do it again. Of course, this is not about opening up the catering industry. The point is, as we had an interruption debate with each other at the beginning, that you should see this as some sort of experiment. So you can do it if you have one of those counters and take into account that 1.5 meters, when it comes to drinks and food, for example on terraces, on the beach or elsewhere. So don't open the whole catering business. Or inside. That is this point and I have not seen any OMT advice saying that this experiment could not be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u502	I'm sticking to my advice. I really think that no matter how much we want this, it will lead to more traffic on the street again, to movements and risks. Don't. At least now. Hopefully soon. The motion in part No. 281: dissuade. The Jetten motion in part No. 283: Fine. However, all additional conditions require a test of legal feasibility and feasibility. For example, when dealing with tax structures, this is still quite a challenge in implementation. Anyway, against that backdrop, judgment room. The motion-Jetten/Heerma in part No. 284 is also judgment room. Let's see. There is still some in my notes, but in my opinion that does not affect the motion. A small group of students may indeed fall out of the boat. It's important to visualize that and check it out... Yes. The motion in part No. 285 by Mr Klaver and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on is about the conditions of the NOW. This motion goes a lot further. There are also those emission reductions. I just don't see it in there right now, do I? Oh, yeah, it's in there. That's why she's been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u503	It doesn't say that. It says: "Report on how they are going to shape their emission reduction." This concerns existing legislation. It is simply a law that the cabinet also says is not being properly observed and that it wants to gain a better understanding of it. That's what we're asking for. We don't make any new, additional demands. It is existing legislation and we ask companies to report on it if they actually use it. That's it. It's really very, very clear. I would like to stress that these are not additional measures. This is exactly what the cabinet also asks of companies, but what does not actually happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u504	Then I would ask for further information from my administration. While Hugo de Jonge immediately makes the motions, I would like to give a new official opinion on the motion in part No. 285. In the motion in part No. 288 is the word "or" very important. Because of that word "or" the motion gets judgment Chamber. With the motion in part No. 289 I can live as well, but once again, I have already said that we are going to find a way to shape this broad advice and I will come back with it. So judge Room. I think it is a good thing in the motion, but I think it is important to add that there is nothing else besides the OMT. The OMT is at this stage leading to the fact that health care goes for the other things, but then a whole range of considerations is released, plus that there may also be moments within the health care considerations that require a broader consideration. So we must avoid saying that they are two equivalent bodies, but that is how I read the motion. I'll get back to you on that. That gives the motion in part No. 289 Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 290 I would advise against the background of the discussion we had. Then I come to the motion on part No. 291 on the chicken meat and the motion on item No. 292 on calves and veal, both from Mrs Ouwehand. I have a proposal for those motions. Following Mr Heerma's question, I have just checked that. In two weeks' time, a letter of progress will be sent by the Minister for Agriculture to see what the effects of corona are on agriculture. I would therefore suggest that she should go into these aspects in more detail. My question would therefore be whether you could continue these motions until that letter of progress from Mrs Schouten, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, arrived.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u505	Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u506	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u507	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motions (25295), Nos. 291 and 292). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u508	The motion in part No. 296, because, once again, that is the subject of silent diplomacy, and none of this is going to help. The motion in part No. 297 over the nitrogen space, I'd advise, because unfortunately, it doesn't work that way. Then the motion to part No. 298. We have often said to each other that we do not want Eurobonds, and we can keep saying that. So I'm deceiving the motion, because it's unnecessary. Of course we all want what's in the motion in part No. 299 stands, but it simply can't at the moment. I should also like to say to Mr Baudet, as a responsible politician and director: can I ask him to pay attention to the fact that we do not give society the impression that we are now keeping things closed that can open? It just can't be right now. It's too big a risk. Let's really be careful over there, folks. So the motion in part No. Two hundred and ninety-nine, I'm not sure. What in the motion to part No. 300 states, of course we always do. We take note of everything and weigh it. This motion is superfluous and I therefore advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u509	I wanted to ask as a responsible politician and potential driver why it doesn't work that way with nitrogen. Isn't that how it works?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u510	Because it's not... If, due to a happy circumstance, a very unfortunate circumstance with an additional effect, the nitrogen emissions are reduced, it does not mean that you can use them for anything else. The bath is so overflowing in terms of nitrogen that at that time you were just kept to accept that as a windfall in a very big problem. You can't put that in for anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u511	But the bath doesn't flood, does it? There's a lot less now, isn't there? Look, I don't think nitrogen is a problem at all. By the way, we would still go hiking in the dunes of The Hague and then see the natural beauty that is the result...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u512	Sure! Nettles and blackberries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u513	...of the fantastic nitrogen. But if you think nitrogen is a problem, at least now it's not a problem. So you could say: boys, we postpone that reduction in the speed limit for another year and still go for a year at normal speed instead of a snail goose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u514	But it doesn't work that way legally. The problem is that we produce so much too much nitrogen that you have to take measures to prevent you, as it were, from producing so much more that it is possible at all to ensure that you have a flat water level, so to speak, and then also to make it go down. The latter we are doing with all kinds of measures. With that first one you can sometimes be helped by the additional effect of something very annoying. That's the case here, but you can unfortunately do that then or unfortunately... that's how it just doesn't work again for new space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u515	Finally, if it were to be found that we are now well below that standard, would you reconsider your opinion on this matter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u516	No, because then there is still a lot of nature recovery needed because of previous damage, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u517	I would like to say a few words about the motion on part No. 289. The prime minister says he doesn't want anything next to the OMT. The motion is about broader advice and more expertise for a broader balance of interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u518	I'm sorry, what motion was it about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u519	The motion in part No. 289. That's right next to the OMT. If he says "just give me some space to come back on this and see how we shape it," I'm fine with that. That is also the room left by the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u520	I'm sorry, but then I'm going to dissuade the motion. Then we're gonna do something really different. No, listen to me. I don't think we should say there's gonna be a club next to the OMT that's gonna advise on the economy. I'd be against that. In my opinion, we all want the OMT to be an important stimulus to the decisions of the cabinet, hopefully with the support of the Chamber, about 'what can you do to make more room' or, unfortunately, about 'what measures do you need to tighten up'. We've talked about the gas and the brake pedal before. Let's hope we don't need a brake pedal. That's the piece. Then there is room and then there are a lot of considerations. How do you deal with spread-out working hours? How are you gonna handle working at home and working at the office? Can you spread that out more? How do you deal with the scarce public space and public transport? On all these issues, as I understand from this motion and as I feel it, you need more structured advice. That's totally good. However, it does not mean that there is some sort of economist club in the crisis structure at the same level as the OMT, because the OMT remains leading at this stage. You then get, you hope, a phase in which the OMT scales a little more in importance, because measures are gradually phased out, but you still have to deal with scarce space et cetera. Then the other club becomes more important, almost like some kind of communicating vessel. That's how I see it, but I think we're saying the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u521	I think we're saying the same thing. When the Prime Minister says, "just give me some space to come back on how we can weigh those interests...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u522	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u523	... and be able to make more use of broader expertise," I say: that is what this motion wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u524	Then it's a thousand percent deal. The motion in part No. 303 is also about exceptions to the measures. A final protocol isn't enough for this, so I need the motion in part no. 303. Okay, folks, let's do it again. I don't want to stand here like the angry family man who says, "You can't do anything." It's the virus that's among us, and that, if you don't take your foot and a half, jumps over from someone who has it on someone else. At least that's a very good chance. That is why we must ensure that we keep that manageable. It has happened too often in the past, so our concern is currently overloaded. At the moment, this overload of care has not been reduced enough to make this kind of thing possible. That's a fact. It's not because we don't like it. Please, as soon as possible. It's terrible that companies are in so much trouble. Dissuade!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u525	Yes. And what does the angry housewife have to do with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u526	Which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u527	The angry housewife.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u528	Angry family man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u529	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u530	No, angry family man. Or housewife, housefather... No, not housewife. Sorry! Family father or... It doesn't matter, an angry person. The motion in part No. 304 is about measures per province. It might in itself suggest that the OMT once make a difference to provinces. You don't know that, but it's not obvious right now. At least I don't want to give that as an order to the OMT right now. I would like to say to Mr Van Haga that it really cannot be ruled out. But because we are a small country with a lot of people and movements within the Netherlands, even though we can't go abroad, of course, the main rule is: stay at home I think it's too far gone to put that down at OMT right now. But that doesn't mean, I tell Van Haga, that not everyone is listening. It may well be that one day there will be an opinion on a part of the project that you don't know to look at the provincial differences as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u531	I think that is exactly what the operative part says: asks the government to examine whether it is possible to take specific measures per province. That's some kind of dynamic process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u532	We do not want to look at specific measures for each province, because we see objections in advance. These can perhaps be solved in practice, because there is always a moving insight. But as a starting point, I do not think it is wise to distinguish between provinces, because of the high population density, the fact that we are a small country with a lot of people and the risk of people travelling. But in the spirit of the motion, I say to Van Haga that I do not rule that out completely and that I do not say that there should never be a regional difference. We made it earlier when we said in Brabant "we ask you to stay home," because it started to get there too fast. In that sense, it can happen. It's just one step too far for me to investigate, but we're going to operate in the spirit of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u533	Mr Van Haga, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u534	If the spirit of the motion says "don't rule this out," if you read it that way, I think you can give her fine judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u535	Calls on the government in the next phase... So what's it gonna be? It's the motion in part No. 304, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u536	It now says: "Ask the government to consider whether it is possible to take specific measures per province."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u537	Not to rule this out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u538	If you don't rule that out...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u539	Of course, we already did that in Brabant, so that's good. If that's what you're doing, the verdict is Chamber. That's the policy we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u540	Are you going to change your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u541	I think that is exactly the thrust of the motion and I do not need to amend it. If I have to adjust her, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u542	Now we're gonna have to investigate. We're not gonna do that. But if it says "don't shut it out," fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u543	From "research" we then make "not rule out."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u544	Are you going to change the motion and pass that on? Yeah, okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u545	The Van Haga/Baudet motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the problem of corona varies from one province to another;]] [[Whereas it is not optimal to subject all provinces to the same stringent measures;]] [[calls on the Government not to rule out the possibility of taking specific measures per province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 304 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u546	The motion in part No. 285 is the motion on which I was advised. I still have to say that there are two points to which I should like to draw attention. First of all, it says 'all employees get their wages paid back' and you cannot guarantee that in advance I explained that in the debate too. Because there may be a reason why a company is in real structural trouble and it is necessary, however tragic, to restructure at such a stage, because otherwise you are coming out of this crisis with a huge legacy. That may be the case. That's one. The second is that it says "in 2020 and 2021 no dividend'. I think that with 2021 goes too far. That's too absolute. In spirit, yes, in spirit, I also agree with not firing people, of course, but it is too loud here. I have made a commitment on bonus payments, dividend payments and buying shares and on the Danish model of people also trying to get schools. I've made a commitment to all these things. I also think that, as a result of the changes to the group regime, which allow exceptions to be made at the level of the working society, we are very close to each other in terms of content, but I think that this motion is too absolute, so I would like to advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u547	Thank you. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u548	Considering the time, I will not go into all the parts. At first she was rejected because of the point about the reporting obligation, about the energies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u549	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u550	Apparently there's no problem there, so can the Prime Minister promise that he'll take that with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u551	No, not as a duty. Pfff. That's what we're gonna look at. I'd like to find out. I don't recommend the motion. I understand what Klaver is saying, but emission reduction is already in the whole climate approach, right? Isn't that what hits all the bigger companies? That makes sense, because you just have to contribute. We're gonna take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u553	I hear something about the motion in part No. 305. I think I'd have treated it. I told you to dissuade him. No, excuse me. The problem here isn't in the OMT. The Segers motion is fine. Because he says, "Just make sure you get that expertise, the other experts, into the process." Then you can have a discussion about whether that is an organ that is next to the OMT or following the OMT or that depends on the phase. Anyway, we had a discussion about that. I think we're saying the same thing. I will come back and then Mr Segers and the other proposers can look and say if they have all seen a white dog with black speckles or a black dog with white speckles, but I think we agree. This motion says "in the OMT" and that goes one step too far for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u554	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u555	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 279 of Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen. It calls on the government to ensure that everyone can be tested for mild complaints. We'll do that one step at a time. We start with those target groups where it also has the most added value. It must make sense. So I'd like to dissuade this motion. Then the motion to part No. 282: calls on the Government to prepare a comprehensive and effective source and contact research policy and to inform the Court as soon as possible. That's where I leave the judgment to the Chamber. This fits in with the further development of the test strategy as we announced it on 7 April. We're gonna work it out in the next few weeks. Then I'll check in again. Then the motion to part No. 286: states that all caregivers who wish to appeal for their own safety... Yeah, that's gotta be much more precise than this. Safety is governed by the RIVM Directive. Where it is still unclear at times, we adapt it, but the RIVM directive applies. It's safe. More than that, in a situation where there is no shortage, could be. But in a situation where there is scarcity, it is at the expense of another. So it doesn't benefit, it does harm, in this case. That's why we shouldn't be doing this. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u556	Very briefly. I find it strange, however, because the Minister started to say his block on protective equipment that we should not think that these directives were there because of the scarcity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u557	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u558	He then uses the scarcity as an argument for not adapting these directives so that all healthcare professionals can do their job safely. What is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u559	I explained this in great detail in the first term. I have also had an interrupting debate with Mr Dijkhoff on this. The directive is about safety. The mere fact that you have to apply this directive is, of course, because there is scarcity. If there was no scarcity, you'd think: fine, I'll put on a cap if I think it's necessary. In this case, however, the directive must actually be applied, because there is a shortage. But the directive is based on what is safe when, in what care situation. Which protector should you use in which care situation? Therefore, at this moment, when we have to deal with this, in that period of scarcity, it is not wise to say: it doesn't really matter, if you feel comfortable with it, you put on a little more. That is not a sensible way of operating, because it is at the expense of another, in the situation where it is really necessary for safety. In short, we should not do this. This is not the clarity that organisations in the care are asking for either. On the contrary, this leads to a lack of clarity. We really shouldn't do this. The motion in part No. 287: use WHO support. I find that a little complicated. Low and Middle Income Countries use WHO support. That's a bit of a "last resort" support. I don't think we should. You can always consult experts, but I don't think we're necessarily waiting for that. Expanding the OMT with behavioral experts, we're not necessarily waiting for that either. The composition of the OMT is consciously composed from the point of view of public health. In addition, RIVM works a very large behavioral club. That is a very good club that we involve in the question of how to design source and contact research and how to use digital support. I would advise against this motion for the sake of WTO support, but certainly, mainly because of 'enlarge the OMT'. We shouldn't do that. Then the motion to part No. 293. That keeps coming back to that endless misunderstanding. We have capacity up to 29,000, but at the moment we are using up to 7,000 tests. If 8,000 tests, 9,000 tests or even 29,000 tests are used, fine. We now see room for further broadening the test policy, because the capacity is there and that capacity is not needed as a whole. Well, good, because then some extra groups can connect. In short, the capacity is there. We just don't need it right now. We join several groups step by step. So this motion only leads to confusion. That's why I wouldn't advise her. The motion in part No. 294 calls on the government, in consultation with municipalities and providers, to ensure that alternatives to daily spending are offered. Yes, that is indeed a wise idea. It is also in line with a number of initiatives that we have launched, so I would like to leave this motion to the House. It belongs to Mr Krol and Mr Van Haga, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Segers. The Krol/Van Haga motion in part No. 295 calls on the government to consider whether to start vaccination against "pneumoxes" and so on. I think that's what pneumococcal means. That is not possible for several reasons. I also replied in full in writing. It is not possible to start earlier. Currently, only a small proportion of the total number of 550,000 vaccines is available. The infrastructure to offer the vaccine has not yet been reduced and the risk that elderly people will be infected with the corona virus is present in the waiting room. I explained this in the previous debate and also on written questions, so we should not do that. Dissuade. The motion by Mr Van Kooten-Ariës/Baudet in part No. 301 calls on the government not to suspend WOB requests from journalists on the corona crisis. I think I have been extremely clear in my answer: we must. There's no other way. The motion in part No. 302 asks the Government to clarify on the basis of which experts and its opinions, between 24 January and 27 February, whether or not corona-related precautionary measures have been taken and to do so to send all relevant correspondence, in the broadest sense of the word, to the Chamber. This motion is a little strange, given the answers I have given. 'Cause what correspondence? You've just had everything. The OMT opinions that were there, you've just had. There's been a number of letters to the House of Representatives. You've just had one. So what correspondence are you looking for? That's one. There are no additional OMT recommendations. There are no additional letters that wouldn't have been there or anything. This motion suggests there's a lot of things you don't have. That's not true. You have everything you should have. Then the Telegraph article with the GPs. Yeah, that A disease; that just doesn't add up. It's a Telegraph article from March. Someone quit in there who says: when I called to report this, I was told that they didn't keep up anymore. That's not true, because you're just obliged when there's a covid case, but of course that's about patients. That's not about dead people, not deaths. By the way, several sets of parliamentary questions have already been answered. It has also been discussed once in debates, so I think this is a bit of a repetition of moves. Mr Krol had another question about the testing of carers: when could this be possible? I am not going to mention that now, but I am going to take that question with me, so that I can answer it in the next few weeks. I really need to calculate that properly and, in particular, see which group of carers that is. For there are 4 million carers, but some of them are already in the vulnerable group and are thus already part of the test policy and so on. So I need to calculate just as well when we can actually make that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u560	Did you answer all the questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u561	I have one more question from Mr Baudet. He just gave me a note with a number on it from an entrepreneur who could potentially deliver mouth caps. There's just been contact. We'll move on tomorrow. That is what I wanted to say to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u562	Great!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u563	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u564	Madam President, the motion in part No. 295 on pneumococcal, I'd like to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u565	At the request of Mr Krol, I propose his motion (25295, No. 295). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u566	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, then Mrs Ouwehand and then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u567	The Minister asks: what information then? But the fact is that the Prime Minister said on 2 March: we rely on the experts. But there has been no RIVM advice or OMT advice. Then I'd really like to know what it's based on. So I mean all the correspondence about that. Then the Minister says, "You don't test on feeling." That's about the Telegraph article. But that's about a GP with a strong suspicion that there's a case of corona. The GDPD then confirms that it has no reporting obligation. So it's not just about someone in Limburg and it's not just about a suspicion or a feeling you can't test. It is about a general practitioner and it is about an employee of the GGD, a spokesperson of the GGD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u568	Mr President, I really feel that I should say the same thing 33 times in a row. We've sent you everything you'd like, I think, in the period between January 24th and February 27th. You think: but which advisors have been there? The OMT, on which we are indeed based, met on 24 January and 27 February. You have these advices and other advices are not from that period. A number of letters were sent during that period. You have those letters, too. You say yes, but I want all the pieces. You have all the pieces. So what else would you like?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u569	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u570	Well, then I have to conclude that that's almost worse. During the period from 24 January to 27 February there was no communication with experts about the coronavirus. So nothing has actually been done for more than a month. And so we are not well informed when the Prime Minister said on 2 March: I have to rely on expert advice. So there weren't any! I don't know what I think is worse. Well, this, actually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u571	It remains an extremely incomprehensible argument, but will we simply involve this reasoning in the evaluation that will undoubtedly be made, in all keys? Then there's the article in De Telegraaf. In those A-diseases you have to report when there is an infected case or an expected infection, so a suspected infection that has not yet been identified. That's an A disease. That's so the G.D.D. can do that source and contact research. But death cases do not need to be reported in the context of the A-diseases. That's where the misunderstanding is. This has been discussed several times, in written questions, but also orally in the debate. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u572	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u573	It is very clear that there are cases in which general practitioners suspect that they are infected with COOVID-19. Then they're not obliged. If there's nothing else tested, no one knows if they've been infected. Apparently, there isn't a good communication with the G.D.D. Then I would like to hear from the Minister at what point all the GGDs, all the spokesmen and those who go about it within the GGD have been informed that this is a reported disease. Because I notice that things are not going well here. It's not clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u574	This question has really been answered several times, both in writing and orally. An A-disease means there's a notification to the G.D.D. Until March 16, this was a report of suspicion of COVID and confirmed cases. After March 16, that was only a report of confirmed cases. This isn't about deaths, because that's all the G.D.D. has to do with it. This is about patients who should then have source and contact studies. Those questions have really been answered several times. I can keep giving you the same answer every time, but I don't know if that'll make you happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u575	I have a question on the Minister's assessment of the motion on item No. 301 on those WOB requests. I read that the Ministry says: in an emergency, we cannot spend time on this. I think that is fair, but what I cannot live with is that the Ministry takes the space for itself to extend it after 1 June. Can the Minister tell us when he wants to stop doing that? That emergency was in the beginning, I'm sure. I didn't ask the Department of Parliament questions either. People had other things to do. But it has to end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u576	You're damn right I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u577	I think the pressure is getting lighter now, so what's the Minister's plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u578	That is a very valid point from Mrs Ouwehand. There is simply a legal obligation. That's a heavy legal obligation. You can't handle that lightly. We have now said that it will apply until 1 June. I hope that doesn't have to be extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u579	We shall then vote in favour of this motion. The Minister should know that we found the initial situation to be fair, but if the Ministry takes the space for itself to extend it beyond 1 June, we want to lie down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u580	I listened carefully to the Minister's opinion on the motion for a resolution on item No. 287 and on that basis I would like to amend that motion on two points. It will then be: "In addition to preparing for testing capacity and recruiting teams for source and contact research, the government requests that WHO support be used if necessary," in order to avoid suggesting that we are suddenly a country in the category the Minister mentioned, "and in the OMT behavioural experts and experts in the field of source and contact research to be involved in the drafting of the advice to the Cabinet," so that it becomes apparent in those opinions that they do have that knowledge and that it is not done in the team. That's what I've heard the Prime Minister about. That is how I would like to amend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u581	Asscher/Klaver motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new spread of the COVID-19 virus in the phasing-out of lockdown measures can only be prevented by means of source and contact research;]] [[Whereas the WHO can provide technical support for this, which is already being used in many countries;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to preparations for testing capacity and recruitment of source and contact research teams, to use WHO support where necessary, and to involve OMT behavioral experts and experts in the field of source and contact research in the preparation of opinions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 287 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u582	The point is only: we ask RIVM, and not so much the OMT, to do that behavioral side. If you replace "OMT" with "RIVM," then we are all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u583	RIVM doesn't advise. The Chairman of the RIVM shall be the President of the OMT. That sends those advices to us. How you handle it behind the scenes is really not my concern. I would very much like to see the basis on which the OMT, when it makes statements relating to behavioural effects, for example about what will happen if you suddenly use mouth caps, which is one of the discussions in which that plays, involves this kind of advice. I believe that this was also recognised by the OMT itself in the most recent opinion and also by the Prime Minister in the discussion we had on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u584	I find that complex. The OMT needs to answer a question about the infectious disease control side, the epidemiological side. That is the work of the OMT: the public health attack angle. About questions that go beyond that, the OMT has to say: you better ask someone else for that. That is why we ask the question about digital support in the source and contact research not to the OMT, but consciously to the RIVM. That is where they have a club of behavioral experts since there has always been talk about vaccines and how difficult it is to explain. They have a pretty well-developed club behavioral experts there to advise on that. So I am not asking that part of the question to the OMT either, but to the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u585	I understand that, only for us that is not visible. We simply have a statement from the OMT: if you do mouth caps, you get false safety, because people can't deal with them. There is no doubt that behavioral expertise from the RIVM is the basis for this and there has been a trade-off. It is only important for our work that we see that too, otherwise it remains very much like: we are wearing a white coat and know a lot about epidemics. Fortunately, that is the case. I believe that you involve that knowledge, only it is impossible for us to follow. That is why I would like to see that reflected in those opinions in any form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u586	But this is about source and contact research and about testing capacity and testing strategy, right? But it says "limitative," right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u587	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u588	Yeah, that's true. So it's about the behavioral effect that you can assume. I gave the example to show that, even though there is a behavioral unit at the RIVM...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u589	Here's how it's gonna be. I think we are very much in agreement on the objective. If I could deal with the question of whether I would directly refer to the OMT or the way in which I involve behavioral knowledge in the OMT recommendation, namely from the RIVM, then I call the motion support policy. If you think that is a good explanation of the motion, then I see the motion as a support for the policy and gets its verdict Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u590	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u591	Fine. It can be that easy sometimes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u592	I was actually a little surprised at the judgment on the motion in part No. Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, Mr Krol, We have already discussed in many debates the maximum test capacity and the fact that it is not fully exploited. It may not be a very strict motion, I say in the direction of Mr Krol, but I think the request is: we have a capacity of 29 000, so please let us make maximum efforts to use as much of that capacity as possible, especially in view of today's debate on education and other sectors. That is why I thought: can the Minister make that motion in part no. Does it not regard 293 as an effort obligation to ensure that we are actually going to use that test capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u593	No, I think it's really a wonderful explanation of what I've been trying to explain with some regularity. We have that capacity. We're using 7,000 tests now, and we're switching on a few more groups. The goal is not to draw up exactly all 29,000 tests. No, that's not the point. The goal is to test the groups that need it. It says here: calls on the government to increase the number of tests per day to 29 000. No, the capacity has been increased towards 29,000 and in the meantime we are always switching to new groups that can use that capacity. That's how we do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u594	Oh, my God. Wrong microphone!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u595	Now you need to be tested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u596	This is exactly what I'm trying to do. There are more and more people who want to use tests; we are talking about the carers. If you try to scale that up? That's not such a crazy request, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u597	No, that's standing policy. And then it is a completely unnecessary motion. What else does this motion require from the cabinet than we already do? That's kind of the point. All right, well, look. Take a look, or you'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u598	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's second term. Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u599	I just wanted to say that we have the eighth motion, which is in part No. 285, hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u600	At the request of Mr Klaver, I propose his motion (25295, No. 285). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-04-22-tweedekamer-2.u601	Then I suggest 15 minutes of suspension, and then we vote.
