ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u1	We now move on to the next issue, namely the debate on errors in investigating distance and adoption in the Netherlands. I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and, of course, the spokesmen. And I am the first speaker to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u2	Thank you, Mr President. My contribution is also on behalf of the PvdA. With permission I share here a very small part of the story of Georgia Gradenwitz-Kemp, one of thousands of gripping stories about distance and adoption. In the first few months of my life, my mother and I were in an extremely unsafe situation. As a hunted game she moved with me from hot to her. All of this to stay untraceable to the authorities who wanted to separate us. The counselors and the police sergeants who managed to track my mother, they write reports in which they leave no trace of my mother. I read: "This woman is unable to be a good mother. The woman has the wrong walk of life." After that, life will never be the same for them. I have worked with interested parties for an investigation into domestic adoption and distance in the period 1956-1984. It's a black page in our history. It is important to acknowledge that period, for the mothers, the fathers and the children. An integrity and independence of research is necessary for this purpose for all stakeholders. However, from the Minister's letters and the many responses I have received from stakeholders, I understand that the necessary mistakes have been made in the ongoing investigation. Mr. Chairman. The study examines the role of the government. You'd expect the Department of Justice and Security to stand at a distance, but nothing less is true. In his letter, the Minister indicated that Fiom sent the written interview reports to the Verwey-Jonker Institute and the Ministry. But were the reports anonymous to the Ministry? Is it true that a project leader just had access to all the reports? The Ministry wanted to keep records as heritage and a book on the collected testimonies. But is there a need for that? Has any consent been given by interested parties to use these reports for this purpose? If this is formally communicated at some point, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. In these types of investigations, care is crucial, certainly looking at the subject matter of the research and the stakeholders involved. To what extent is the hotline scientifically and carefully designed? We have received several signals that this was not the case. Is it true that, for example, it has not been reported to all stakeholders that, if they did not want an intake by Fiom, we could have the Verwey-Jonker Institute? How is it that the hotline and the Verwey-Jonker Institute did not, by default, return the reports to the stakeholders for control and agreement? How is it that the complaint procedure was so unclear and that people made complaints and never heard from them again? Mr. Chairman. In this investigation, the privacy of stakeholders is of fundamental importance. However, some things have gone wrong here. Is it true that the reports are not communicated how and where they are stored in accordance with the GDPR Directive? How is it that a Fiom employee accidentally sent a report to a third party and not to the interested party? Mr. Chairman. This isn't a shopping list. This is about life stories of people coming into the hands of others that you just don't want to. When was the Minister aware of this data breach? How is it that an employee of Fiom, because the files were mixed up, accidentally said to someone: you have a sister? This just can't be! The transparency and independence of the investigation should not be called into question either. How were the stakeholders selected for the in-depth interview by the Verwey-Jonker Institute? What are the criteria? I can't get an answer to that. Mr President, concluding. Given all this, I'd like to argue for the following. I want an expert on stature, such as Micha de Winter, to be asked to reflect on the approach of this investigation so far, to engage with all parties and to make recommendations on how this investigation can be handled and carried forward in a careful and responsible manner. In this respect, it is most important that the people involved, the stakeholders, regain confidence in the research. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u3	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Mrs Van Toorenburg has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u4	Mr. Chairman. When you look in the rearview mirror of time, it often beats you cold around the heart. My mother said to me very often for a reason: it was no better in the past. She remembers the classrooms in which flooring was laid in the front part, in the middle sail and in the back. Children from the most important environments were in the front, the "ordinary children" in the middle and in the back of the orphans. At Easter, the privileged children who sat in the front were allowed to bring some candy to the orphans. That story has always caught me very much as a child. Now another invigorating practice from the past affects me as a mother deeply. Women, often still girls, who had accidentally become pregnant but were not married, were taken to homes for unmarried mothers to spend the last months of their pregnancy hidden, gave birth and give up their child. Or immediately after the birth their baby was taken away from them, as Mr Bergkamp indicated. This has caused immense pain in mothers and children. It's written on those many black pages of our history. Fortunately, we have repented and understand that these practices are inhumane and that unmarried mothers need to be helped, in freedom. No forced abortion and no forced distance, but helping to make one's own choice of whether or not to make motherhood a success, in the interests of everyone. Having said that, we must come to terms with the past. Part of it is not looking away from what has gone wrong and mitigating the suffering suffered. To this end, a good first step was taken with a hotline and a thorough investigation. But no. It didn't feel very good for the mothers that the Fiom was given a role. I can feel it, but we didn't act directly against it as a room. After all, there are other people there with other intentions. But then came the corona crisis and the stakeholders and stakeholders experienced that due to the time pressure came to report. Mr Bergkamp and I have asked written questions. Fortunately, that problem has been solved and the hotline has remained open for longer. We also asked questions about the signals we received that the investigation would not go smoothly. How bar and angry it was, we really couldn't be afraid. We were so shocked when we got the answers to our questions and read the supplementary letter. So all those signals that had reached us were right. Very emotional women were heard by telephone and had no idea how on the other side of the line their story was recorded. They couldn't face that either. If they did face it, there were many things that weren't right. They also had to learn that their so intimate personal stories had just ended up somewhere. A data breach in such an extremely sensitive file; how does it exist? Can the Minister indicate what consequences this data breach will have? This concerns special personal data. Often it is even medical data, whose protection is very strict. Does the Minister actually expect the Personal Data Authority to act and possibly impose high fines? I wouldn't be surprised. It is not just that that needs to be clarified. The Minister has also written to us about the measures he is taking. They need further explanation. He writes that he understands the unrest. The unrest has been outlined very clearly by Mrs Bergkamp. I don't need to repeat that. The question is whether he also regrets it. We read that the Minister hopes that all parties will work together with the measures and with confidence towards the common goal of bringing the truth to the table. He speaks out of trust in a happy ending. But then, of course, the question arises as to how he is going to ensure that the mothers and children have that confidence again. We want to hear in the Minister's room today what his commitment is, how the investigation will continue, what parents can expect, and what children can expect. We do have confidence in the Verwey-Jonker Institute, but we ask the Minister whether it is not much more sensible to appoint someone who can direct the investigation and see if it is in a decent way, as Mr Bergkamp said. Someone with experience, for example from the Children's Ombudsman or from the De Winter Committee. I would like to hear how the Minister sees this, because it is very important for the mothers and children to have clarity and peace. We owe it to them. They've been through so much already. Their confidence in the government is already zero point zero. How else can we look them in the eye?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u5	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate is about the sad history of young unmarried mothers who did not have to give up their child under duress between 1956 and 1984, but under heavy pressure. That is indeed a black page from the history of the Dutch welfare state, as has rightly been said. That fact must, of course, be fully clarified. That history needs to be described. What exactly happened there and how did that happen? It's about truth finding. That needs to be investigated. And then it is painful and intensely sad that such an important investigation on such a sensitive subject makes this kind of mistake. Major errors have been made in data processing and intake interviews, which has led to a huge dent in the trust of the people who it is about, the parents, but certainly also the children. The question is how this could have happened. The Minister has acknowledged that mistakes have been made, but how could this happen? Once again, the government is going so terribly wrong, I would like to say, after everything that has gone so terribly wrong with the government in recent times, when you look at other very large and important issues. How could things have gone so wrong on this subject? Was it wise to give the Ministry, but also the Fiom and the Council for the Protection of the Child, an explicit role in the investigation, while those institutions in particular were the subject of the investigation? Their role was just investigated. Why was that chosen? The main question of the debate has already been asked: how will confidence be restored? The confidence of the parents involved and the trust of the children involved. It's about thousands of people. How is the Minister going to restore that confidence? I think it is a very sensible suggestion to appoint an independent expert of stature to look into what remains to be saved from this research in the present state. We have called on interested parties to actually suspend the investigation as it is currently under way, pending the independent expert who will assess it. That seems wise to us. And is the Minister prepared to involve the people who are involved very strongly? I don't know exactly what role, but I think you should always talk to the people who are involved and you should also listen to them. What are their wishes and how could their trust be restored? Then I have a question about the research budget. Is that enough? I have heard that this budget would be in stark contrast to the budget for other important investigations carried out in the past by other committees of inquiry. Can the Minister say anything about that? There is also dissatisfaction with the fact that it is unclear where complaints can be made about this investigation. Could the Minister comment on that? Finally, a slightly different subject, namely the international adoption. This is also the subject of an important investigation carried out by the Joustra Committee. This concerns another period in history, but also the role and responsibilities of the Dutch government in this sensitive subject, the international adoption. We're not discussing that right now, but I do have a question about that. There too there is displeasure, but about the fact that the CBS is conducting research on behalf of the Joustra-Commission and has conducted a survey of those who have been admitted to their well-being. How are you doing now, after the internal adoption? That's a grieving experience by a lot of people who have been adopted. Now we are talking about an independent committee, so I do not know to what extent the Minister can talk about this. After all, we must let the independent Joustra Commission do its job. But the adjectives are now wondering what the question of how it is going to deal with them has to do with what exactly happened in the past and what the role and responsibilities of the Dutch government institutions involved were. I think it's good to say that here. These are two different things: what happened in the past and how am I doing now? We shouldn't be tying that up. I'd like to leave it at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's an embarrassing display. Another blunder from this Ministry of Justice and Security. If you commit violence or abuse your children, this ministry will coddle you and the magistrate you. You get an extremely light sentence, if you're already being punished, and everyone does everything to protect your privacy and coddle you. But if you're Geert Wilders or Julio Poch, you're gonna have a problem. Then apparently there are other interests and everything is put on everything and no means, not even unauthorized means, are shy of catching you. And if you're a parent of a child, and you don't care about life for a while between 1956 and 1984, but maybe you still have some scary bodies coming at you. They're gonna take your kid away from you. Your kid's gonna be put in a foster home, or an orphanage. Often, not always, and the good ones aside, of course, end up such a taken or defrauded child from the rain in the drip. So the State often owns the children of others. The least you can expect is that state, this ministry, doing so with a great deal of care and care. There is now an investigation into the abuses of domestic distance and adoption between 1956 and 1984. Mr. Chairman. If you see how little care is being taken in this investigation, how many mistakes are being made and how many carelessness has already been detected, you can call it embarrassing, as Mrs Bergkamp of D66 rightly says. However, I call it terrifying. Do you have to imagine: if this ministry is not even able to investigate carefully the abuses of distance and adoption in the past, how can we be reassured that the results of that investigation will bring the whole truth up? The government, this ministry of this minister, is making a mess of things. That makes my group not only sad, but also angry. Nota bene the ministry itself oversees the privacy of Dutch people, leaves uncompromisingly sensitive information of people lying around and makes crucial errors in the processing of information. It calls victims by the wrong name and rubs victims with intellectual limitations that they don't have. Shameless. How can we, as a Chamber, be reassured that now, in 2020, the state apparatuses engaged in forced removals, distance and adoption are operating properly and carefully? It's exciting, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u9	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u10	Mr. Chairman. I agree with the previous speakers, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van Nispen and Mrs Van Toorenburg. Because, of course, it is very harsh that people who have experienced such a terrible thing in the adoption are now faced with capital errors in an investigation. That's what it looks like when we read the Minister's letter. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp's question and proposal: can we not have someone, an expert on stature, look at it? I myself have a number of additional questions about the international adoption. Mr Van Nispen has already mentioned this. I agree with his question about the survey, the survey that would have been done. I have two other questions. We also received a letter from the Minister on 30 June in which he wrote that the investigation of the Joustra Commission was delayed for several months by the corona crisis. On the one hand, that is, of course, very difficult for anyone who is waiting for those results, but also very understandable. That's force majeure. But recently, I have again spoken to many organisations representing the interests of people who have been adopted, from different countries: Colombia, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Indonesia. They are quite concerned about and critical of how the research is now being carried out. I cannot judge whether those concerns and those criticisms are justified. As Mr Van Nispen said, the Joustra Committee is an independent committee of inquiry. The Minister, in general consultation last December, indicated that he was going to take the lead on this issue in order to ensure that the interest groups were sufficiently heard in the investigation. When I read the Minister's letter, I thought: that delay is very annoying for the people who are waiting for the results. The Joustra Committee is independent, but I would ask the Minister to ask the Joustra Committee once again to use those extra months as an opportunity to discuss with the interest groups. These interest groups have ideas on how this research should be carried out. They also need a kind of intermediate position: where is the research now and does the research meet their expectations and questions? My first specific question to the Minister is whether he would like to pass this request on to the Joustra Commission. The second question concerns a wish which these interest groups also have. They want to have a greater role in the pedigree research that is being done. It is good that the Minister has allocated money for this. I read in the Minister's letter that 1.2 million is going to Fiom, with the strong desire to involve the interest groups. I hope that the involvement of interest groups means that they may be able to receive funding to conduct this lineage research. Now they often do this at their own expense, while knowing where you come from and who your parents are is a right. This is the right to identity. I find it resentful that people who want to know who their biological parents are should pay for this; especially given the responsibility that the Dutch State had in everything that went wrong with international adoption. The Minister writes that interest groups should have a role in what Fiom is about to do. I ask the Minister what that role is. I also hear a lot of criticism from interest groups about Fiom's way of working. I cannot judge what is and is not true, but I hope that this Minister will carry out the direction he promised the Chamber at the end of December. That was short before a recess. I also hope that he will convey the concerns and ensure that the interest groups can play a full role in everything that is being done with regard to the investigation of the Joustra Committee and the future pedigree survey. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gent on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There has recently been a great deal of attention to the issue of adoption, and especially to the abuses that would have occurred in the past. This applies to both domestic and foreign adoptions. My colleagues Van Nispen and Van den Berge have already referred to the investigation of the Joustra Committee on Foreign Adoption. We find the questions that are now being asked by the adoptive children and the distant mothers quite understandable. The desire to know who your biological parents are or what happened to your child is a fundamental human need. I think it is quite right that in the past, when we heard the reports of the abuses, politics asked for a response to be investigated. There should be a thorough analysis of what has happened and what the role of the government has been in this. Knowing that there are many emotions in this process, which is understandable, and that there is a great deal of mistrust, it is all the more painful that it is now apparent that these investigations have not been carried out carefully. For example, errors in reporting have been made or the privacy guarantees have not been provided. My colleagues have already asked a lot of questions about how and why. I'd like to join those questions. Finally, Mr President. Mistakes and mistakes that have taken place in the past are very difficult to repair. But the victims deserve an accurate and careful study to find out what happened. Even if it is only to be able to learn from it and to prevent these mistakes from being made again in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Gent. Then I look at the Secretary of State for a short suspension of fifteen or ten minutes. Well, I mean the Minister. It's the last day. Fifteen minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes. Minister Dekker, I have announced you as Minister. I'll see you in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u14	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u15	Thank you, Madam President. We are talking today about a sensitive and painful issue, first of all about the issue that it all began with: the conditions under which women in the 1950s, 1960s, 1970s and even the early 1980s abandoned their children, under duress, under great pressure. Earlier research revealed huge abuses. We've talked about that before in an AO. To this day, many people are suffering from feelings of pain, of shame, of great grief. I have to tell you quite frankly, I have seen that myself. I've been pretty heavily involved in the start-up conference. People I met there, I then invited to talk again at a quiet moment. I've seen, heard and felt what that has done to people. I've been thinking, how is this possible? Women my mother's age. Sometimes we talk about abuses from a very long time ago, but this had... Well, I'm just gonna see who we've got in the room. This is actually something of the generations of young people who grew up in our time and parents who grew up at that time. That might come in extra. The pain of young women at the time, sometimes girls or now adults, sometimes at age, who have had to give up a child, is almost impossible to imagine. What a shock when you find out, sometimes at a later age, that the family you grew up in, your father, your mother, your brothers, your sisters are not your biological family and that somewhere else you do have a biological mother and sometimes father and other brothers or sisters, who you haven't known all these years. It draws deep traces into people's lives. That is precisely why we said at the time: the bottom stone must come up. We need to find out what happened at that time, to learn from it, but also to recognise it, to recognize that black page in our history. Your chamber and I wanted to deepen the investigation into that period. That's what the Verwey-Jonker Institute is doing. We also want to save those stories for posterity. That is why I have asked distance mothers, fathers, distance children and other stakeholders to share their experiences. This is the reason why, in addition to research at the research institute, there is also an Aanmeldingpunt distance and adoption. How painful is it, then, that I have found that mistakes have been made by my ministry in setting up that notification point, which does not properly cover various safeguards which you would have thought were "good in each other', procedural guarantees. The quality of interview reports is also under discussion. At least one report is known to me to contain considerable inaccuracies, but there are more reporters who complain about the reports. I understand that this has caused a great deal of grief for those involved. I can also imagine that other reporters are now worried about their story. Mr. Chairman. All those involved in my ministry feel very miserable about this state of affairs. Because if we had wanted to do something right and should have done it right, it would have been in this case. That has not happened, and I deeply regret it. I say to the people who are responsible for distance mothers, here and there a distance father, distance children, I say to them: you have already endured far too much. This wasn't supposed to happen. I understand very well that you feel grieved. I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman. I think it's important to make this statement at the beginning of my first term. I shall then turn to a number of themes. First of all, how did this happen? I believe that Mr Van Nispen also explicitly asked that question. That's what I've been wondering. Two: what are the consequences of this, the consequences for the investigation? Three: what measures are we going to take to fix this now, correct it? Finally, there are a number of supplementary questions to this study, which do have to do with adoption, but are more in line with the other research, of the Joustra Committee. Mr. Chairman. How could that have happened? Of course, that's what I've been wondering. I have had a lot of conversations lately and then I saw two things: errors in reports and procedural safeguards around the GDPR that are not properly secured. My analysis is actually as follows. I can be brief about the errors in the reports. I just have to say that people make mistakes, including intakes. This happens to even the most experienced employees, despite a long and penetrating telephone call, a comprehensive intake form and a schedule. It's unspeakable. In fact, I've been in touch with the Fiom and they're admitting this equestrianly. They also apologized in those cases where that was the case. Of course, we should have thought better, and we should have also figured out what you can do to prevent such mistakes from persisting. In order to avoid this kind of error, it should have been ensured in the procedure that those reports would be returned to the notifying party at any time. In fact, that would mean that the circle would actually be complete. It can always happen that you've been on the phone for an hour and a half and that you've had an intrusive conversation with someone on the other side who's emotional. Sometimes things don't end well on paper. But looking back, of course, this was easy to make by saying: I will send you the report, so that you can look at it quietly. I will come to the solutions later, and this is part of that. I have to say that this has not happened from the outset. Would all these interview reports have been correct at once? No, I don't think so. But if so, we would have given logins an opportunity to verify it and, if necessary, correct it. Mr. Chairman. The second point is much more in those guarantees. We have, of course, examined what has happened here and what has happened to some of these procedures. I have to say that they weren't all what they were supposed to be. They were also not in conformity with the regulations. We have discussed the new regulations around the GDPR before. It sets very high standards and I note that all these requirements have not been met in this study. There, too, I asked how it could have happened. I'll see a few things then. The login point we work with serves different goals and further several parties were also involved. There was also a relationship with the research of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. But the investigation and the login point were two separate things. The Verwey-Jonker Institute used the call reports from the login point to get a selection for the in-depth interviews, which they then did. Based on those in-depth interviews, they were going to do further research. But the login point also had as its goal... And that was also discussed with the so-called working group at the time. There were a lot of interest groups in that. It was said: "You cannot have everyone interviewed by the Verwey-Jonker Institute for the research. However, it would also be desirable to keep some of these reports, so that we can do something for posterity, for example by combining them at a later date, as is sometimes the case with other studies." The third is that that registration point was not only intended to provide input for the Verwey-Jonker Institute and record reports for posterity, but also to ask people... Those people are dead, too. Those people said, "I don't want my story to be used for the investigation. I just want to tell you my story, but I would need advice and sometimes care." That's also why the Fiom has a prominent role in this. After all, the Fiom has a lot of knowledge and experience in the search for descent and the questions about adoption. If you're asking what would explain that... That's part of the complexity. But it was precisely this complexity that made it necessary that we should have made better agreements. The second thing I see is that there are officials and people involved in the Fiom, with a lot of knowledge about the problem as such, but with less knowledge about the latest state of affairs around the GDPR, and also acted on the best of intentions. To give you an example: for example, a form was asked for at the intake: can we use this report as an input for research by the Verwey-Jonker Institute? That was then recorded on the intake form via a telephone call. But the GDPR says very strictly: you should have had that permission requirement in writing. That should have just happened. That should have been done in writing. But, even if you are not aware of the requirements of the GDPR, I do understand that there has been thought: you have had an emotional conversation, so you ask that orally. I don't want to justify it, and it's no excuse, but you can see it's happening. The idea is that you don't want to burden people unnecessarily any more. It's not to justify it, but I think that's how it happened. That means that we need to be tighter on that in the future. The more complex it is, the better we should lay down procedural safeguards. We still have to do this kind of formal requirements from the GDPR, even though it may be a tax, also for the people you are asking for, because in retrospect of the tax that they are likely to get because of all the concerns about mistakes, it is many times bigger. Mr. Chairman. A third point. We have tried to get to work quickly. Speed isn't always your friend. I think that, from the passion of the people who were working on this, the rapid establishment of a hotline and the rapid organisation of a start-up meeting did not help to settle these formal requirements properly. It's not a good story; I'll give it back immediately. If you ask me what lessons I have learned and if I have been able to look critically back where it went wrong, then I note that these are reasons that we need to take care of in order to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u16	Then you've completed this part of your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u17	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u18	Yes. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u19	Let me begin by saying that I appreciate the Minister's apology for how the investigation has been carried out so far. I think it's right, but it's always a step to do that, so I appreciate that. The Minister reflects on the investigation so far. He indicates some of the things I recognize. But if this investigation is also about the role of the government, which also examines the role of, for example, Fiom, if the minister reflects on it, is it useful that a ministry itself has those reports? I also asked the question: are the reports anonymous, or is it true that the project leader had access to the reports? If the Minister reflects on that, wouldn't it have been helpful to keep the Ministry and Fiom, and therefore that intake, out of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u20	I think that at the beginning we don't turn back... a hard cut is made between the hotline and the investigation. The Verwey-Jonker Institute does the research, gets input with reports and makes a selection of who they want to interview. All this is done under guidance or under the authority of the WODC, which we have placed at a distance to organize completely independently and also far away from the Ministry. That is why I am not so concerned about the independence of the investigation. I will also comment later on whether this has had an effect on the quality of the research. But we talked at the beginning and thought about what we could do for a wider registration point, because this was an unknown phenomenon and because we knew that there were many women who were in need of help with this history and who sometimes needed help. Then it was said: if there is one body in the Netherlands that is able to offer that, that is it Fiom; it is quite logical that you do that with the Fiom. Also from the organisational capacity we have from the Ministry of Justice, we said: we take that part in hand, so that we have an intake. People can call and people can e-mail, they get called back and then we'll write up a report. Some of them are then indeed stored and then at. a form or form that was not yet determined, whether you archive it, whether you make a book of it or otherwise are shared. You asked if we had defeated them. The answer is yes. Were they anonymized? No, not yet. Did you have access to that? Yes. Should I have? If you look at the GDPR: no. That has therefore not been sufficiently guaranteed, but not with malicious intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u21	It's really bad. The Ministry has the reports of the people, who are not anonymous, the privacy has not been handled properly and people did not know what happened to their reports. You can't make up for that part, because trust in that area has just been violated. The Minister will soon reflect on how to proceed. I think this is a very important point. It's said that Fiom has the expertise. I can imagine. But make sure you say standard to everyone: if you don't want to, you can go to the Verwey-Jonker Institute. That didn't happen by default. That didn't happen to everyone. Then Fiom, because it was just too much work, also hired students who did intakes with people with personal stories during their break. I understand you're making a choice at some point. My question to the Minister is when did he get these signals and whether he acted on them quickly? Because I have to say that I thought when I got the signals: this doesn't exist, this can't be true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u22	The point of Fiom and Verwey-Jonker Institute is a relevant point. At the start meeting where the hotline was launched, it was said to the attendees: if you do not want to get rid of your story with Fiom, you can do so at the Verwey-Jonker Institute. So they've done a small part of the intakes. I have to say that in the first weeks of the registration point it was not given by default, but from 24 October 2019 all the reporters were informed that they could also have contact with an employee of the Verwey-Jonker Institute if they wanted to rather than an employee of Fiom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u23	Afterwards, people from the Verwey-Jonker Institute were referred to Fiom. So, to be honest, everything went wrong in that process too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u24	Then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u25	Something important has indeed happened, namely that the Minister expressly says that he regrets this and that he has expressed his regret. I appreciate that, too. This does not, of course, mean that the betrayed trust has not yet been restored. We'll get to that later. I still have a follow-up question about how this could happen. The Minister has given an explanation for this. It was partly in the speed and there was no careful action. Is the sensitivity of this research and this sad history also underestimated? Was it incompetence among individuals or was it also incompetence among the organizations that had to do this important research?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u26	I think we should note that there is a great deal of knowledge and skill at my ministry and also at Fiom about everything that has to do with adoption and pedigree. There was also interest in getting the story of those distant mothers and those distant children up there. What it lacked at that level, I think, was the knowledge and skill about arranging or organizing such a hotline. This is complicated, with various organizations and stories that you record, which then have to be used by researchers, for example, or you want to keep them together, even for posterity. I have to say that there has been insufficient. That's where it went wrong. The lesson for me, the lesson for the people who are doing this is that if you are going to organize something like this, you should think through this kind of formalities on the front and organize them better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u27	Can I make it even more specific with one example where it has gone horribly wrong? At some point, a summary of a large number of stakeouts reports, i.e. of super personal and sensitive stories, without the consent of the interviewees, has been offered free of charge by one of the intake staff to promote their own adoption coaching practice via a personal website. Can you believe it? Here again the specific question. I was just asking if it's an incompetence of individuals. Has such a person not been warned, of "you're going to work with very sensitive data, you've been aware"? Is it incompetence of some individuals or has the sensitivity simply been totally underestimated? Let me give you this example of underlining the question I just asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u28	I don't know that example. I should look at what happened there to give a good judgment on that. I only note that there are really driven people on both my ministry and Fiom's side who, in my view, really want to be of the best, but have acted insufficiently carefully, on many fronts. I don't know if what you're saying is true, but I'll take it right away. I'm thinking, "What's that?', But many mistakes have been made when it comes to care. That's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u29	I, too, appreciate the Minister's apology. I do have one more question. The minister says that part of the investigation was also recording stories for posterity. I wonder who asked for that exactly. As far as I know, the stakeholders, the people who wanted to know exactly what happened, did not ask for it. I am therefore very curious to know how the Ministry has come to include this as the purpose of the investigation and of the hotline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u30	There was a hotline and there was an investigation. The research is always set up as standard with a formal guidance committee. It's got professors in it. The WODC will see to that. Apart from that there was, what's going to be called a working group domestic adoption. There were a number of people in my ministry, but there were also a number of representatives of the interest groups, of the representative organisations of fellow fates. There was a broader discussion than just the research of the Verwey-Jonker Institute; "what else do we want to do?'. There this was one of the themes that came up: wouldn't it be an idea to use the stories not only as input for the Verwey-Jonker Institute but also to do something wider with it? That's why they've been kept. So there were more ideas from the working group. That is, of course, a diverse whole. It was also sometimes the case that this was enthusiastically received by one interest organisation and the other interest organisation needed a little less. These things were discussed there. There was also talk of activities and meetings for peers; all kinds of things that can help to recognize and process the past that are separate from the research of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. Those were two different trajectories. Only, it did start at the hotline in that one place. The hotline had a function for the Verwey-Jonker Institute, which used all those reports and then made a selection: who do we want to do interviews with? The hotline also drew up the stories with the possible desire to do more with them in the future. The hotline was also used to refer to aid workers, to advice, to care when people needed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u31	Still, just to get it sharp. I believe that this investigation has been initiated in order to find out what abuses have taken place, what responsibility the State of the Netherlands has had in it and how we can do justice, as far as possible, to the suffering suffered by the victims of these abuses. Capture for posterity was added later, but I do not think that is the purpose of the investigation. I'm asking because we're talking about data leaks and leaking entire intimate information. Before you start collecting information, I think it's very important to have very clear why you're collecting information and whether it's in the interest of the people you're trying to do justice to. I do not have the feeling that this is true, because I now hear that it has come from the group and that this was not necessarily a strong wish from the interest groups. That's what I care about. Have we not taken unnecessary risks with intimate information by adding a goal that has never been the original purpose of this investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u32	That was the working party where the interest groups were present. This was one of the topics that came along. Should we have done that more carefully? Yes. But it's not like this was just a Ministry wish. I have a strong impression that there too it was said that of all the applications I think we have had 600, 700 by now, perhaps a few hundred really can be subjected to an in-depth interview and good for that research of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. Some people had the idea of keeping it. I don't think that's too crazy either, because you can also see elsewhere in other studies that reports, of course anonymized, are then used to record in archiving, so you can do something with them. I just totally agree with you that you can only do that with the permission of the person who did his story. That didn't happen enough. Of course, we can still do that. In fact, we still have to do that; I agree with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u33	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u34	Mr. Chairman. Maybe something along the lines of this. No, I'll come back to that later. The question that naturally follows the question of how it could have happened is: what are the consequences of this for the research? When I became clear what had happened here, I also contacted the WODC and the Verwey-Jonker Institute directly. They are very clear about this from their research work. So that's separate from the login point. They indicate that from the point of view of the research methods used, the reliability and integrity of their research are not at stake. I would therefore like to remove the concern that, because of the mistakes in setting up the notification point, we could no longer have any confidence in the investigation immediately, although I fully understand that this question exists for those concerned. That confidence has been violated and we will have to regain it. I will look at the suggestions you have made in this regard. Mrs Bergkamp asked: what were the criteria used by the Verwey-Jonker Institute and how was a distinction made in the notifications that came in at the registration point? The Verwey-Jonker Institute is free to do so, but we did ask: make a floor on the story of Radboud University and see if you can get a larger variety in the backgrounds of the mothers, the fathers and the children involved. You can sometimes see that there is a bias in the group of people who report. Some people pick up the phone easier than others. Thus, for example, the distribution in the region, the distance period, the distribution in religious beliefs and the background of those concerned have been examined. That is the kind of characteristics that has been looked at. In what we now get back from the Verwey-Jonker Institute, they say something based on those reports and the basic information they received from the applicants from the Fiom, on the basis of a questionnaire made in conjunction with the Verwey-Jonker Institute. The Fiom used a sort of checklist, of which the Verwey-Jonker Institute also said: there are the questions on the basis of which we can make a good selection. We are now being reported back on the in-depth interviews that have taken place in the meantime, that they do not recover large, significant differences between what is shown by that in-depth interview and what is shown by the application.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u35	Do you have any questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u36	No, you want me to finish the block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u37	Perhaps it is good to finish this block and then you will have the opportunity to ask questions, Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u38	We have been asked: what can we do to restore that trust? Can an independent person play a role in this? I think it would be a good idea to distinguish between research and registration. The purpose of this question is, if I understand correctly, to restore confidence in research and its independence. When I look at what the Verwey-Jonker Institute and the WODC are doing, with the entire guidance committee, with several professors in it, I am not very worried about that. The advisory committee supports researchers in the questions about used research methods, and I think there is no doubt about that. The errors focused on the application and intake. That was organized outside the research, outside the Verwey-Jonker Institute. It is true that these mistakes can be corrected in my view, but that does require a great deal. It places great demands on the recovery actions that are now to take place. I am therefore also prepared to have the procedure for verification and correction of those reports evaluated. I would like to go round the table with the interest groups to see how we can do it in such a way that they can regain confidence in it. How can we get an independent outsider to watch that operation? That must be someone they have faith in, and they say, if the man or woman has a good judgment on, then it can do something about the damage. Even though the integrity and reliability of the research are not at stake according to the WODC and the Verwey-Jonker Institute, I have asked the Verwey-Jonker Institute to wait for the 31 in-depth interviews to be conducted until the verification of the reports is completed. Then written consent will be given to the use of the report for the purpose of the investigation. This can also contribute to confidence in the research. That does mean it's all gonna take a little more time. I am taking into account a delay of a few months, but we should take it for granted. In the end, we all want an investigation that we say is just right, that's integrity, that's independent. I hope, above all, that those involved will recognize themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u39	Now it's going really fast. About the Verwey-Jonker Institute. I notice the Minister says there's nothing wrong with that independent investigation. However, there are also complaints about the approach of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. It's about the conversations. It's a black box. Are the data anonymized? Some conversations are put on speaker. When dealing with the Verwey-Jonker Institute, how that process takes place there, there are really critical comments. I understand that the Minister's approach is that there are errors at the hotline, but the Verwey-Jonker Institute's investigation is continuing, but I think that is too fast. That is why I have also said, even though I think it is very nice that people who get and have to approve reports, that it is really important that an independent expert with stature should look at this whole approach, to see if this can still be corrected or not. That was the background to my story. The Minister says that things are going well at the Verwey-Jonker Institute and that mistakes have been made at the hotline, but I find that too short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u40	I have fewer complaints and indications that things did not go well at the Verwey-Jonker Institute, also because of the way in which that was organised, with a guidance committee with several professors from outside who oversee it. There is the commissioning and contractorship, where the WODC has been placed as a scientific institute to monitor quality but also independence. I have a strong impression that that is well secured.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u41	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. You have a guidance committee. He's approved that there are intakes being held by Fiom. Based on the reports that follow, the Verwey-Jonker Institute can select those with whom they have an in-depth interview. Nor did he find that those reports were first linked back to the person concerned and accepted. None of that happened. It's very nice that there's a guidance committee. I think it is also good that it will reflect on the whole approach. But there's something else weird. That was also the question: on what criteria have these intakes been selected by the Verwey-Jonker Institute? The Minister says that this concerns the way in which the person concerned has been renounced and the background of the person concerned. But you do not know at all whether these data are correct and whether the selection by the Verwey-Jonker Institute is based on sound information. And I find that quite remarkable: the Minister says 'well, we send those reports to the people who check and it's all gonna be okay'. I honestly don't believe in that. And if I don't believe in it, then the people involved certainly don't. So I really want the Minister to take this seriously. In my view, it has been argued by a majority of my colleagues: there must be an independent person, someone with a stature who has the confidence of those involved, to look at that whole process and reflect on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u42	I hear what Mrs Bergkamp says. I have made a rather detailed argument and I have also sent letters about where I think the biggest things have gone wrong. I would like to consult with the Verwey-Jonker Institute and the WODC, but at the same time I also keep some distance. Because not so long ago we had a whole discussion here where it was said that I and my colleagues would no longer interfere in how the WODC does research and that we should have confidence in the scientific quality and independence of all the research it does. I myself find myself in something of a kind of clamp when you say that I need to direct it more or that someone should sit on it from outside, while I am being told by the WODC, and I really must be able to work on it as a sponsor of the Verwey-Jonker Institute, that it does not have the impression that the integrity and quality of the research have been compromised. What I could do is just ask them if this could help. Then I'll put it a little bit more there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u43	Now something really weird is happening. The minister says, "I'll stay away from investigation." We are all for that, but it is this ministry that said itself "we are going to preserve the heritage, come here with all those reports, not anonymized." So, to be honest, I'm gonna play the ball back to the Minister, and I'm gonna agree that the ministry should be out there. The same applies to bodies to which the investigation is being carried out. I think that's cleaner. But try to think about how we can straighten this out. And then I think it's wise, too, to get the trust right. Because I honestly do not believe that the Minister's story is so convincing that everyone now thinks "well, okay, we read our report and then it's gonna be okay." I would therefore like to give the Minister some thought to taking seriously the proposal which I believe is widely shared in the Chamber and to ensure that this can be corrected. There have been several investigations. Think of Mrs Dettmeijer, who has done a valuable research, and of Mr De Winter. These are appealing names of people who can reflect on this whole.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u44	I'm gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u45	I understand what the Minister is saying, considering his role as Minister and his position. But this debate is about the broken trust of the people involved, about the people whose history is being described, about the truth finding, what happened? It's about the adepts and about the parents. So the Minister cannot really answer the question of what exactly he needs to do to correct the mistakes that have been made. I can't give you that answer either. Only those people can do that themselves. And that is why today we must not limit the role of the independent expert we want and say: it should only look at the intake talks and not at the role of the Verwey-Jonker Institute. I'm not gonna cut that knot today. So I'm not going to limit it in advance. And that is why I agree with Mrs Bergkamp on an independent expert. I think he can do that, but that is up to that independent expert who is talking to the people involved to ask them: where is your concern, where is it not going well and how can we restore confidence? That is why I call on the Minister urgently: do not limit this in advance, but leave it to those involved. Only they can answer the question of how to restore confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u46	My suggestion was to talk to those involved, to see how we can do it properly, together with the fact that the greatest carelessness has taken place at the hotline. I think it is important that, of course, the research, which was separate from the notification point, is not only qualitative and integrity, but can also take place independently. That is why I feel a little more limited when it comes to making commitments. We have just made an agreement in this house that once an investigation is under way, the issue is in the hands of the WODC and that the policy department stays away from it. If I make commitments on that now, I will be in a complicated role. I have just informed Mrs Bergkamp that I would like to do this in consultation. Nor do I rule out the fact that the WODC and the Verwey-Jonker Institute say, "Well, we think that..." They are often constructive in this. But I do make that cautious reservation here, also because I do not want to duplicate my role in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u47	But there is no one here today who says to the Minister: you must and you will intervene in that independent investigation. Of course, nobody does that around here. Please do not remind me of the debates we have had here with the blood on the wall about the WODC and the independence of the inspection. Let's stop talking about that; I think that's better. It is about those involved and about what they want and how their trust can be restored. With the proposal to appoint an independent expert, we are preventing us or the Minister from answering the question: where exactly did it go wrong, from which part of it are we staying away from and how can confidence be restored? They have to answer that. That is precisely what the independent expert could and should assess in full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u48	I don't think we're that far from each other. I have already said: that independent expert seems to me to be very good. I'd like to do the same, in consultation with all those involved. You say, "Let's also see what that means for the investigation." I am not ruling that out at all, but I do not want the independence of that investigation to be affected. Not on my side, but I also think it is important for an investigation to be conducted independently of different interest groups. An investigation is only independent if I do not interfere with the content, but also other organisations do not interfere with the content. That is why I think it is important that the interest groups should not be on the advisory committee, because then you will really get a role mix. It must be an independent investigation. If the person we're talking about at least looks over my shoulder with that login point and the correction, in the vein of "does that happen in a good way and can we gain trust with it?" I think we can come a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u49	I really want this minister to take his heels out of the sand. 'Cause this is really going wrong. This investigation is tainted. This study uses reports that may not have been used and documents that have not been anonymised. The Minister says that if this is not requested, we will ensure that it is not used. Yeah, who? Then who's watching? There's no more trust. The minister started so well when he said he wants to do everything he can to restore confidence and he deeply regrets it. I know. I know him a little bit by now. Of course this hurts him too. Now get on with it. Not today, on the last day before the recess, to present an image that it might not be possible for an independent person to look at the investigation. That's not how we're gonna break up as a room today. We stand here as representatives of the people of mothers whose children have been ripped away. We're not breaking up today until we're sure we're looking critically at that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u50	I just said I'm going to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u51	That's not enough. It's not enough for the Minister to say he's going to talk about that. I want it to be on the table as a serious option. Only if the stakeholders really do not want to use it, if they say "Minister, no, all the e-mails that went to the Chamber today during this debate, we did not mean all of them, we really don't want to do it," does the Minister not have to do it for me. But our messages are too intrusive. The misery is too intrusive. And that is why the Chamber says today: we want this to be on the table as a serious option, for the people who have been wronged here to have the final say on what happens to their information, what happens to their reports and who does any research into them. It's not something that's fun for our society to read back in five years! No, this is about finding truth from one of the black pages of our history.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u52	The people who have done their story must be about what happens to their story. That's the goal behind the whole exercise we're about to undertake. That also means that when people say they don't want their story to be used, it's up to them. It's up to them. That's for sure. And then the other point. I just indicated that I'm going to talk about that. Then this is a serious option on the table. That's exactly what I'm gonna do. At least that's what I'm gonna do for my part when it comes to the hotline. I'm gonna start that conversation, and then it's like a serious option on the table. If that can help restore confidence, it is in everyone's best interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u53	I, like colleagues, have great difficulty with the Minister's reasoning. He started out very well. He apologized on behalf of his ministry for making mistakes. But now the same minister is talking to those involved to see if an independent person of stature should look into the investigation. Can't we just conclude that mistakes have been made? It is precisely in the interest of independence that the Minister does not say "I am going to talk to see if this is a good option," but that he is now simply asking an independent person of stature to look closely at the investigation. Because it didn't just go wrong to check the interview reports by interviewees. It also went wrong in the research setup. We are now getting e-mails in, I think colleagues from stakeholders who say: well, I never asked for my story to be bundled for posterity, I don't need it at all. So it's more than verifying those call reports. I think the Minister would do the right thing if he were to appoint that independent person to look closely at that whole investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u54	But now we're really confusing two things. You say "I never asked for it," but that's not part of the investigation. That's the point I keep trying to make. That's part of the hotline. I have already admitted that things have not gone well and that they need to be repaired. I believe that people should be given the opportunity to correct their report and that people should be asked in writing whether they want their report to be used for the investigation. They must give written consent whether it may be used to keep it for posterity. If the answer is negative, the report must be destroyed. Then it shouldn't be used. On the contrary, I believe that those involved really should have that in their own hands. I think the suggestion is to see if you can employ an independent third party, an authoritative person, a very good one. You also have this promise in your pocket. My only point is that I say at the part of the Verwey-Jonker Institute for the WODC that I want to talk about this, also because I am not formally talking about it. I'm not talking about the investigation. I have to watch out to get involved in that, because I promise you more than I can live up to. I'd be happy to have that conversation. I'd like to deal with those involved. Please give me the space to do so together with those involved. I really feel like we should be able to get out of there. We all want the investigation to have a successful outcome. I am not waiting for an investigation which will have a lot of discussion later on. That would require a lot of everyone. Yeah, I'm gonna start that conversation, and I'm gonna bet that for my part. I think I'm gonna be a long way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u55	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u56	I'll try to keep it short. The minister just said that he attaches great importance to the independence of the investigation. I do. That is precisely why it is important to ask an independent person of stature to look at the whole investigation. And I'm not gonna make it a semantic discussion, because the research isn't just about the play at the Verwey-Jonker Institute. That is, of course, also the hotline and what is being done with the things that have come in there. I'm talking about the whole investigation. That's what the Minister's letter was about. I do not think we need to take one piece out of it and say that this is the research that the Verwey-Jonker Institute is doing independently and that the Minister himself cannot decide on this option now. I think the Minister can say: I'm going to ask someone and I'll have them look at the whole investigation, hotline, in-depth interview and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u57	You said you'd be brief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u58	Yes, but I'm touched, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u59	Yeah, it hits everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u60	But here's my point. My request to the Minister is why he can't just promise that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u61	That is indeed very brief and clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u62	I think I promised. I think the discussion is becoming a bit of a semantic discussion. I've indicated that I'll do this for the part I'm about. About the part that I'm not about, the independent investigation, I said I'd be committed to that. I'm gonna talk about that. I have even expressed the expectation that I think we are going to go a long way there. But I must also respect the independence of this, the Verwey-Jonker Institute and the WODC.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u63	Then I suggest you move on. I don't know how far you're about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u64	Mr. Chairman. I have come to the question of what measures we are going to take to correct errors. I have already indicated that the reports have now been placed in a safe environment. I spoke to the Verwey-Jonker Institute, Fiom and the WODC about the main features of the verification and correction procedure. This means that the notifying parties will be informed immediately after this debate about the background to the decision to set up a verification procedure, in which they can and must indicate whether they wish to participate. After all steps have been completed to start the procedure, in accordance with the GDPR, they will be presented by Fiom and the Verwey-Jonker Institute with a discussion report. They may make corrections and are asked whether they can agree to the processing, on the one hand, for research purposes and, on the other hand, for the preservation of offspring. Those are two different things, one can choose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u65	Three. The reports shall be finalised on the basis of the corrections indicated and, if necessary, returned to the notifying parties and in accordance with the stated agreement to the Verwey-Jonker Institute and/or the Ministry. Then they'll be destroyed at Fiom. The reports will be destroyed by the Verwey-Jonker Institute at the end of the investigation. Finally, the reports that are kept for posterity are transferred by my ministry to an institution that will take care of the collection of the reports. Once again, of course, only if consent has been given by the parties concerned. It's an exercise I like to have tested by such an independent expert. I believe that after the implementation of these repair measures we can at least be sure that the reports will only be used for the purposes for which the notifying party has given written consent. I think that's very important. It may also mean that they are not included in the final investigation, because they just wanted to get rid of their story, but want to leave it at that. The second is that the reports are also correct in the view of the notifying party. Three. The processing, including the destruction of the reports, complies with the requirements imposed on the basis of the GDPR. Finally, Mr President. There were a number of questions that did not relate to domestic adoption, but to another ongoing investigation. A question was asked about the CBS survey and its concerns. It is ultimately up to the Joustra Committee to decide on this. They have informed me of this, but this is a trade-off that they themselves have made. I can imagine something that you say you want to look at the past, but you also want to know what the impact of that past is on the well-being and well-being of those who have been adopted in 2020. They have the freedom to make those kinds of choices. My proposal would be to wait and see how that ends up in the investigation. Then there was the question of whether the Joustra Commission is also in contact with interest organisations and stakeholders. I can answer that question in the affirmative. The committee doesn't organise a meeting. That will be done by my ministry, but it is also in contact with various interest groups. Finally, the question of financing. As you know, I made 1.2 million available. At the moment, I have a map of how to facilitate the search of and for those who have been adopted. Together with the organisations, I will look at which services can best be offered for this purpose and also by which organisations. That can also be wider than just the Fiom. As far as I am concerned, the interest groups and their ideas are fully taken into account. That's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u66	Thank you. Then we can continue with the second term. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u67	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have one motion. This motion is an assignment to the Minister. In official parliamentary terms, you should always talk about "requesting the government," but it's an assignment to the government. I would very much like to add this context to this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ministry of Justice and Security has acknowledged that procedural, organisational and substantive errors have been made in the investigation of domestic distance and adoption 1956-1984, including in the processing of notifications, the preparation of reports, the handling of files and the anonymisation of data;]] [[noting that this reduces the confidence of interested parties in the investigation;]] [[Whereas there should be no doubt as to the design and execution of the research and that the research must meet the requirements of scientific research, such as due diligence, independence and transparency;]] [[calls on the Government to call on an expert on staff to reflect on the approach to the investigation so far, to engage in discussions with all parties in the near future, and to come forward with recommendations on how this investigation can be carefully and scientifically justified and brought forward, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Kuik, Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Markuszower.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31265-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u68	Mr. Chairman. Let me also say something to the Minister. This motion won't just be filed. It is an important guarantee that this research will also have a chance of success and that it will be able to gain the confidence of stakeholders. We must not forget that the Verwey-Jonker Institute will be empty-handed because people simply have no confidence in contributing to the research. Hopefully this will prevent us from doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u69	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u70	Mr. Chairman. The signal is so powerful that the rest of the Chamber does not need a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u71	If that is the case, we must wait until the motion is with the Minister, after which he can give an appreciation. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u72	The motions have been distributed. The Minister has been able to take note of it and is going to give his appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u73	You speak plurally, about motions, but I only have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u74	The Minister is absolutely right; there is only one motion. I'd prepared myself for multiple motions, but it's just one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u75	Yes. I totally agree with what Mrs Bergkamp says. The intention is that the trust will come back from all those involved for whom we did this. If there's confidence there, I think there'll be confidence here again. Again, if I look at where it went wrong, I must, also towards the Verwey-Jonker Institute and the WODC, put my hand in my own bosom. Most of the mistakes have really been made on the side of the hotline, on the side of the ministry, for which I am directly responsible. Having said that, I can imagine that this is understood much more widely by those involved. With that remark, I am perfectly capable of making this motion and I can leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-02-tweedekamer-61.u76	The motion in part No. 71 gets the judgment room.
