ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the need to combine natural recovery with economic recovery. I would like to welcome the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I actually wanted to give the floor to Mr De Groot, but I see Mrs Bromet standing in front of the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u2	Good morning, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u3	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u4	I would like to make a point of order. Last night at 11.15 p.m. I was already in bed; I had just woken up and received a letter from the cabinet about what is going to happen to the opinions given by the Remkes Committee. I've been thinking, how can I do my job as a Member of Parliament? I had to get up at 6:00 this morning. How can I prepare a debate properly between 11.15 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. without consulting experts? That is what we as MPs do, because we do not know everything. None of that has been possible. We're going to have the debate today anyway. At first, I thought, "Well, we're not gonna do it." But the nitrogen crisis has been going on for far too long. It has to be solved. I saw that you had an interrupting debate with one of our colleagues last night on the provision of information from the cabinet to the Chamber. I hear you're going to have a conversation about that with Mr Rutte. I would ask you to take this point too, because this is an insult by the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u5	Well, you made your point. It is a recurring problem: send pieces to the Chamber. Some of us have been doing a little better lately, but not everyone. I'm looking at the minister to see if she'd like to say anything about that. It's okay in her term, too. That's the case. We shall now proceed to the debate. I give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. Because nature cannot speak, a year ago the highest judge in the Netherlands had to come to terms with politics painfully, and rightly so. Our nature is fragile and deserves our protection. Only 4% of nature is in good condition. Our task as a representative of the people is to serve the public interest and to take account of those who may be affected by it. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that farmers are concerned about the strengthening of nature. We therefore have a duty to provide them with an honest choice: we will support you to make your business more sustainable or we will help you terminate your business. In this way, the number of animals in livestock farming can be reduced and we emit less nitrogen. In addition, it is appropriate that the government not only doubles the nature budget for the next ten years, but also significantly reduces the number of animals in livestock farming and helps farmers to take the path towards reducing emissions by introducing circular farming. It is also a good thing that the cabinet has already started the reduction of more than 1 million pigs: an arrangement that has been largely overwritten, also because many farmers are in the wind. The cabinet did the right thing by putting a big shovel on top of it as a result of Remkes. By replacing the non-binding effort obligation with a result obligation, we are now also sure that the reduction of nitrogen must be achieved and that we do not get bogged down in good intentions. The threshold value for construction combined with the promotion of electrification of construction machines helps enormously to rebuild in the Randstad. The fact that this must be done in a way compatible with nature speaks for itself at D66. For us, the main thing is that we protect and strengthen nature and that we can build houses again. With these steps and plans, the cabinet is taking the first steps towards a more robust nature and farmers who can take a hit through more sustainable business operations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr President, you wanted short interruptions. So I want to sum it up like this: what kind of nonsense is this? Has Mr De Groot not read the Remkes report? Has he not noticed that the core of that advisory report is that the ambitions in the area of nitrogen reduction have to be much higher than the cabinet has intended? Then Mr De Groot cannot stand here and say: look how well we are doing. Why doesn't the cabinet follow the advice of the Remkes Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u8	This is where the fact that the letter came a little late is vengeful. As you have read in it, the main element of Remkes is that it should be free of obligation, that you should limit voluntaryity and that you should work with a result obligation that is legally laid down. That is the essence of Remkes, in addition to a number of very good recommendations that I shall be addressing. Mr Futselaar cannot deny that, in the short time that was available, the cabinet did indeed make a substantial spade on top of its own plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr Futselaar did not deny that a disastrous proposal that did not matter had been converted into a somewhat less disastrous proposal. The core of Remkes is not only that it has to be legally secured. The core of Remkes is: instead of the 26% reduction proposed by the cabinet, we need to reach 50% nitrogen reduction by 2030. That is the essence of Remkes' advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u10	Sure. That's an important element. I'm here to talk about that. Of course, I am also very curious to see what the Minister will do about this and what the Minister will do about the higher ambition that has now come from Europe. An EU biodiversity strategy has been proposed, which says that we need to protect 30% of our territory from nature. Those are, of course, steps that D66 very much welcomes, and it seems to you as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mrs. Bromet. I saw you, too, Mr. Moorlag. The microphone's about to be cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u12	Following the publication of the Remkes Committee's report, Mr De Groot tweeted: "It seems that the Ministry of LNV needs to put a lot of effort on it in order to better protect nature. On to the next step in the right direction." What the hell is that big shovel that got on top of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u13	That's a fair question. That big shovel is that it has now become a result obligation. Remkes' criticism was very clear: make the approach less non-binding, and ensure that the targets set for nitrogen reduction are also achieved. The legal definition of that element in a result obligation was taken over in that week as a result of Remkes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u14	Better late than never. I tabled a motion on 19 December to do exactly this. That's where D66 voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yeah, it happens. As a government party, you always look with your coalition partners at a step in a better protection of nature, so that it becomes more robust. This was another step, as a result of Remkes. There have been many. GroenLinks is so acidic about this that I sometimes think: let's reach out to each other, because I think we both want better protection of nature. It sometimes seems like the only animal that GroenLinks wants to protect Caterpillar Never enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u16	Good morning, Mr. De Groot. Then we'll go to Mr. Madlener. I saw you, too, Mr. Moorlag. You're gonna have to come around here for a while, or I'm not sure you want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u17	No, I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u18	Fine. Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. I found it exciting when Mr De Groot first took the floor. Of course, I was curious to see how the coalition continues. Mr De Groot was the one who called for a halving of the livestock, and that this was only the amuse of what was to come. D66 blew it up hugely and almost caused a political crisis. The question is, of course, whether D66 and Mr De Groot have been put back in the coalition. My conclusion, especially after the interruptions of the SP and GroenLinks, is that this is indeed the case. Is Mr De Groot indeed back in his loft? Has Mr De Groot moved away from the halving of the livestock, and has the amuse actually turned out to be the main dish?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u20	I am pleased that the PVV is also concerned about the stability in the cabinet. I can assure you that we work very well together every time to take steps. You were able to read that until last night. You will also have taken note of the massive overwriting of the reduction scheme, or stopper scheme in pig farming. What's happening now is unprecedented. We're going to reduce more than 10% of the pigs. In addition, since the D66 call, it has been made very clear that more than EUR 1.5 billion will be released to reduce the number of animals in livestock farming. Those are big steps. You can't deny that. What matters in the end is that it will help to protect nature. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u21	It's a big step, as far as we're concerned. It's way too big. As far as PVV is concerned, it is not necessary and it is more of a political crisis than an environmental crisis. But, of course, Mr De Groot himself says that 10% less pigs in the Netherlands is not 50%. A half ring is 50%, Mr. De Groot. So are you indeed satisfied with this, and is this the end of the tension in the coalition? Too bad, I'd say, but I'm looking forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Madlener is a bit hung up on two thoughts. He actually thinks it's too much what we do. But he thinks D66 doesn't do enough again. So that's a little hard to understand. You can see for yourself that you're not getting out of there. But D66 is a party that names what is going on every time, and we have, of course, a country with far too many animals in the Netherlands. That is what we have appointed, and we have also said: the farmers who stay must really reach out to them in order to give them clarity. That's exactly what we're doing right now, that's step-by-step, and that never goes from the basement to the attic at once. But our endeavor remains to protect nature better and to offer farmers a perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u23	Are you gonna interrupt or not, Mr. Moorlag? Otherwise, I shall give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand, who would like to ask for something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think we're witnessing an exercise here trying to put an elephant in a wrinkle-free way behind the wallpaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u25	What did you say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u26	Putting an elephant in a wrinkle-free position behind the wallpaper is the attempt made by Mr De Groot here. Because the Remkes committee, which is completely filled with CDAs, VVDs, even someone from the SGP and also a Social Democrat, recommends that 50% of nitrogen space be legally anchored. The cabinet objective is 26%. What are we gonna do with the other 24%? Is that commission really going to pass D66 to the left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u27	I think this is a fair question. That is also a question that D66 has for the Minister: is this ambition that has now been set sufficient to finally take the steps towards better protection of nature? Is there anything else you need to add? Is that what we need to talk about? That is also our question to the Minister, especially in view of the ambitions that are now coming from Europe, where the committee says that we should actually improve the protection of 30% of our territory. We're far from there. D66 also sees the Remkes report as a support in the back to keep fighting for a better nature each time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u28	Very sincere and flattering Gronings, this is just a lame story. This is a really lame story: having a big mouth outside the Chamber and talking about "50% reduction livestock" and not getting any further than asking a question to the Minister. I believe that we are witnessing a next stage in human evolution, which is to walk upright without a spine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u29	That's quite a qualification, but I won't go into that. The question behind that is, how do you do politics in this Chamber? D66 you will recognize as a party with great ideals. I think the Labour Party and D66 can shake hands in that. But D66 is also a party that, like the Labour Party, is able to work with other parties in this Chamber to achieve results. And you can't deny that what's lying there right now, Mr. Madlener, is really angry about being really steps where you're going to protect nature better. So the qualifications you attach to it, I'm keeping far from it. You have in this country to work with others and take steps from a greater ideal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u30	I would like to say that I appreciate the fact that D66 is fighting for nature within this coalition. But the point is, we're way past the stage where you can talk about one step. D66 in a motion, which was also adopted, called for a legally sustainable, effective and credible package. That's not there. Mr De Groot knows the Habitats Directive very well. And he knows that the law says that these natural areas must not deteriorate. The fact that Remkes took ten years is because today you can't stop the country completely and buy out all the farmers that need to be bought out. That's why it's been ten years. But that 50% reduction is really necessary to keep you at least to the law. So why doesn't D66 say, "coalition interests are all very important, but we cannot agree to the continuation of this illegal situation. We do not support a cabinet that does not comply with the law on this issue."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you for the kind words. We are committed, just like you, to nature. The question is indeed: is the package now in place robust and legally sustainable? That is a complicated question which cannot be answered. It is our commitment to make it as hard as possible. This was also the reason why the legal guarantor was strengthened in response to Remkes significantly. You cannot deny that laying down the law is the most far-reaching way of laying down that reduction obligation. This is the most far-reaching legal means you can have to secure the reduction. So in that sense, that robustness is even stronger. But I agree with Mrs Ouwehand. This proposal goes to the Council of State. This body monitors the legal robustness and has the expertise to do so. The cabinet has clearly done something with Remkes' strong criticism. If there is strong criticism from the Council of State, then you assume that this is being looked at very carefully, just as the criticism of Remkes has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u32	So D66 picks the flight forward. That disappoints me very much, because I do not think that this dossier is suitable for those flights to the front. We've been struggling with it for 40 years. Mr De Groot had previously been able to say exactly what was legally necessary: a 50% reduction in livestock is inevitable. So he knew very well before what we have to do to keep to the law and give nature the chance to recover. And now he says: perhaps the Council of State will come up with criticism; we should listen carefully to that. I think that's lame politics. The accusation is in the direction of the Minister, but also in the direction of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u33	Really, really. Over a period of ten years, you're going to invest 6 billion more, half of which will double the nature budget. We are going to spend more than 1.5 billion on reducing the number of animals. These are pigs and cows, especially around nature reserves. These are really big steps. In addition, we are making 1.5 billion available to ensure that farmers can really make them more sustainable. Ultimately, it is of course much more interesting that farmers have perspective, so that they produce cleaner products with an eye for animal welfare. That's what's in there now. Start with that, I'll tell the minister. We share the need and urgency. But you have no doubt that this is a real step forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u34	It is your third question and Mr Geurts still has to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u35	Yes, Mr Geurts still has to go. Exactly. The blame applies to the entire coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u36	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u37	I have two short questions. Can Mr De Groot answer the question as to whether this package complies with the prohibition on deterioration? I'll give you a hint: I don't think so. Can Mr De Groot confirm that this so-called doubling of the nature budget means that we are still below the level we had for Bleker? Did that abort nature much help? Has this been enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u38	Of course, it was a disastrously bad decision by Bleker to bring back the nature budget in such a way and to reduce nature and all the beautiful plans for buffers and connections to the smallest necessary thing to do according to Europe. This turned out to be too little. Nature has become incredibly vulnerable. Nature policy has also become vulnerable, even in such a way that there are parties in this Chamber that make it a caricature. They say, "Should we go and protect that very last hamster?" Yes, we do! Because we've always looked up the minimum, it's very juridized. D66, like you, is very critical of that. That is why I welcome the fact that that road upstairs has now been found again. It is about doing this in a less non-binding way than has been done before with the PAS and a rigid nature policy. Now this has to be done with a really tough approach and a substantial reduction. Is this enough? We still need to take steps; especially if it turns out that we also need to examine this, and we need to consider that with that 26% you are not reducing enough. That was your first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u40	I need to see where I was. I was working on my introduction. D66 still has a number of questions. The advisory board............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. My question to the Minister is therefore: is the proposed reduction sufficient, also in the light of the European Biodiversity Strategy? Then there's a matter of concern about the provinces. I've done a round in the provinces, and it really doesn't cheer me up. Some are very active and others are waiting. There are even provinces that think: ah, there will be money; we can finance a scale jump with that. Of course, that is absolutely not the intention. Is the Minister prepared to differentiate, see what is needed per province? For example, the Veluwe needs much more nitrogen reduction than Friesland. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of how the Minister can reach verifiable agreements, also in relation to the province. What is the Minister's position on the differentiation of the task, which I have already mentioned? You commit yourself as a Member State and set it as a result obligation in the legislation. The essence is that this also has an effect on the relationship with the province. Mr. Chairman. Remkes makes a big point of transition to, as he calls it, low-emission circular agriculture. He is critical that the government does not link the nitrogen problem to this, so does not link its own plans to that transition. How is the Minister going to use the package that lies ahead to realise her vision? Because circular agriculture is really the future. Finally. D66 sees many steps of this cabinet towards better protection of nature. Let us make our environment more robust, so that we ourselves can take a hit, because we are nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr President. It's getting off on the wrong foot. Nature has value in itself and is the basis for our existence. If you don't want to protect that from yourself, you're already 10-0 behind. Because what has the Dutch government done? She says, "You know what? We only do it if other countries do it." So the European rules. And then they are not respected. Mr. Chairman. The Remkes Committee was not necessary for the Animal Party, because we find it impossible for a ministry that has the nature policy under its control to know how to comply with the laws in force to protect nature. Anyway, the coalition gave the minister a lead, so she could say again for a few months: "Yes, I am a minister, but surely you don't think I can do anything? We'll wait for Remkes." Then Remkes showed up at 100 km/h. That was followed nicely. That's when the emergency bill came in. That emergency law the Chambers have passed is illegal. It does exactly the same thing as the right-wing Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, but even worse. This emergency law is illegal, said the Party for Animals. It can only be done if you make it clear, define and support science, with a package that can no longer be affected, that it will succeed in restoring nature. That's what the Minister said. Wait, D66 said that package is coming. And then, instead of your own legal knowledge... I hope that there is at the ministry, but I have the dark brown suspicion that the defenders of intensive agriculture in the ministry constantly shift away all that expertise of nature people. It would drive me crazy too if I were in the LNV Department on the nature file. I think that these people have the knowledge, but they simply can't get through, because the interests of intensive livestock farming are more important. And so there came a coalition agreement: what can we do to get out of that obligation? It's not enough. I say to everyone here: you are not only doing all the citizens in the Netherlands, who are entitled to a healthy nature and a healthy environment, and nature itself is seriously lacking, it is also the same drama for farmers. You're letting the farmers spin around in the same dunghole. Innovation again. Innovation again! Just say the following about that. So these are air scrubbers, which give you an extra risk of barn fires. So these are those low-emission stable floors that are at risk of explosion. Farmers themselves say about this: "Well, I had to invest in it and now it's not enough. Now I have to take action again." Those are cow toilets, petting a cow's pubic area to make her urinate. Is that a solution which the Minister thinks will bring social appreciation to farmers in the future? The farmers already know that this is not going to be enough. They have to invest in it and get subsidies for it, but still, they're gonna have to get some more later. We know that already. The government must be the first to comply with the law. So the Party's call for the Animals is: just be honest. I told the Minister that when she took office. There are huge challenges. We know exactly what needs to be done in agriculture. We've known that for 25 years. The wait is for a ruler who has the guts to at least say that honestly. Do not hide behind political agreements, because this dossier is not suitable for that. The Minister must say that if we do so, it is against the law and then it is up to you, Chamber, to decide on it, but I am not going to defend a policy as a ruler that I already know is against the law. That is a reproach towards all those parties who once again let nature fall into the shit, who once again present lies to the farmers and let them spin around in the same dung pit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u43	Yes... Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You had already invited me a little, so I think I should go into that invitation to Mrs Ouwehand. I've been listening. I have heard many stories from the Animal Party and from Mrs Ouwehand, but I have never seen it so sour and with such a personal attack towards the Minister. I would like to make a few comments. The Minister is in charge of her own defense. We don't have to do that. She's more than her man. I want to make one point. Mrs Ouwehand states that the legislation is illegal, legislation adopted by a majority in the Lower House and the Upper House. How can Mrs Ouwehand say that this legislation is illegal? At the most, a judge can find something about it at some point, but even so, that legislation is not illegal. I do not think it is right for us here in the Chamber to adopt a majority of legislation which is as illegal as Mrs Ouwehand and the Animal Party are against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u45	And yet that is exactly what happened, or you don't understand that there are higher rules that the Netherlands has committed to. And again, I didn't think that was necessary. You should not only participate as other countries and there are European agreements to protect your nature. The Netherlands should have done so itself. Anyway, it's the route the cabinet chose. So you're stuck with higher rules. If you deviate from that and say that there is a political majority in favour of not doing what we really need from the law, then that is simply illegal. And I think it is very stupid that the Minister listened to the CDA in solving this problem. The CDA already had a subscription to destructive statements by the Council of State before the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. Each time the CDA came up with a trick, with a way to avoid the rules and each time permits were suspended on that basis by the judge. That means that, as a politician, you just take the space to see how you can't keep to the law and how long you get away with it, so you leave it to citizens to go to court and then adjust something. And then you make the same mistake again! Yeah, unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u46	All I hear is one-sided rhetoric. And now not only the minister is being attacked personally, but also my party and with that I am. I am very good at this from Mrs Ouwehand, so I am not worried about that at all, not at all, but there will be no answer to my question. How can Mrs Ouwehand claim here, in this House, in the House of Representatives, that legislation is illegal if it has gone through both Chambers with majorities? You can't be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u47	I just answered that. That is because this Chamber has chosen the route to protect nature through European rules. That is then higher regulation. And that goes for that illegal emergency bill the CDA came up with. And don't tell me anything about blaming the CDA. Why is the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen invented by the CDA? Because the review framework ammonia, which was in place before and was also invented by the CDA, went under every time in court. So there's one party here that's champion in making up tricks that the judge takes down. I believe that farmers are entitled to more clarity than that, and that farmers are not in any way inclined to make such a trick again. We'll have exactly the same situation in a few months or a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u50	I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Young people can't get a home. The waiting lists for rentals are incredibly long. A large part of the market is really completely dry-boiled. There's a need to build. A factory in the Eemshaven could not be built, because there was no nitrogen space. When you walk on the moors in Drenthe, you don't see a heath, but only a grassy plain, a kind of Drenthe prairie. Mr. Chairman. The way it goes, it can't go on anymore. I think the Remkes Committee makes that very clear. The Council of State ruled over a year ago that nitrogen policy is not sustainable. Where are we now, a year from now? In fact, the Remkes Committee also responds to this, because chapter 8 of the report assesses government policy. After some warm introductory words that it is all so difficult and complicated, the policy is simply criticised. In fact, it is said that it is not proof against European legislation, that it does not provide sufficient guarantees that permits can be granted and that there is insufficient natural recovery, which is also necessary to grant permits. My question to the Minister is: how does she feel about that? She doesn't go into that in her letter. And what does she think of the more than 50 recommendations made by the Remkes Committee? I find it rather embarrassing that such a comprehensive and coherent advice is simply written away with a letter of two sides, which appeared after eleven last night. That's impossible, isn't it? The Remkes Committee is not just a committee. The Remkes Committee came at the request of the Chamber. The Remkes Committee is not just a committee in terms of composition either. She's really very wide-ranging. There's a CDA guy, Jan-Jacob van Dijk, and a prominent VVD guy, Mr. Remkes. Mrs. Liesbeth Post is also from the VVD. Mr Elbert Dijkgraaf is of the SGP. A Social Democrat was also a member of the committee. It is really wide-ranging and offers a truly coherent approach. My question to the Minister is why she does not take that advice. Is it prepared to give an appreciation to all over 50 recommendations? Mr. Chairman. The biggest flaw in the letter that came out last night is that although there is a legal anchoring, this legal anchoring is only 26% reduction in nitrogen. The Remkes Committee is quite clear in this: Chapter 9 of the report states that it is 26% not enough and that it should be 50%. Does the Minister think this is Council of State Proof? This can't be happening, can it? Aren't we just here to keep going on a dead end? Okay, there's some beautiful new road furniture being put down. Partly at the request of Mr De Groot of D66, a new asphalt layer is applied, but it remains a dead end. My question to the Minister is why she does not choose another route, the path the Remkes Committee points out, a committee composed of directors of the right flank of the political spectrum. Let this minister and let D66 catch up with such a committee? Mr. Chairman. I have serious concerns as to whether this is going to help put nature's quality in order. I don't think so. The Remkes Committee is also quite clear on this. My question to the Minister is whether she thinks that with that letter of two sides and the previous legislation, on which there is great discontent in society... farmers say that the feed measure is being pushed down their throats. Builders were angry. Nature organisations were not satisfied. Everyone's unhappy. Even the Remkes committee, which cannot pronounce it now, does not put it under any circumstances. My question to the Minister is how she intends to go down in history: as Minister of Daddy and Wet or as Minister of Tackling and Tackling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you. Mr Geurts has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Remkes Committee for its work. The first opinion of this committee was titled Not everything can be done, and the last opinion is titled: Not everything can be done everywhere. That word "everywhere" has hope in it. It means, in the CDA's view, that there is still a lot to do but not in all places. So we want to think about possibilities rather than impossibilities. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I want to say something about living. The construction sector, by this I mean the construction of water, infrastructure and so on, is suffering from the problems of nitrogen and pfas. The CDA has said it before: the housing shortage is high. That's why we need to move fast. Our builders need to be able to rebuild, but the construction does not have nitrogen space, because the construction is the only sector that does not have a business license for existing activities. That space must be given to them very quickly, and we are therefore in favour of regulating it by means of a well-founded threshold for construction. We are therefore pleased that the Minister is going to present this to the Council of State. Can the Minister give us a look at how she intends to shape that, I ask her through you, Mr President. For the construction sector is important, or rather indispensable, for the recovery of our economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u54	Mr Geurts thanked the Remkes Committee. He should be, because he has actually taken the initiative to set up a committee. The cabinet, the minister, is pleased to accept that. What was the function of that committee? According to Mr Geurts, is it what he expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u55	I believe that the Remkes Committee has laid down a sound package, a sound report. That does not mean that we as CDA agree with all the elements, but I do not think that we need to. But it also keeps us a mirror of what we're doing. You can also see that the cabinet takes this seriously, for example, by submitting the element of a threshold for construction, which the Remkes Committee also points out, to the Council of State. So it's not like nothing's happening to this Remkes report. The other point is that the Remkes Committee wants to achieve far-reaching reductions, the so-called 50%. The committee also points out that it is a matter of balancing the ambitions for the restoration of nature with a time-limit for reducing emissions which it considers feasible. I think that the cabinet in the package contained in the April letter made a very good assessment in this respect. On the occasion of the Remkes Committee, something is being added to that, and this is being submitted to the Council of State. So yes, I think what is being taken over from the Remkes committee is a balanced whole. I shall now come to a few other elements of the Remkes Committee on which I am going to make a proposal today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u56	Ask the Chamber and the Cabinet to set up a committee that gives good advice on the future of nature and agriculture in the Netherlands. 175 pages counted the last report. It's been worked very hard. The committee has talked about it with Jan and alleman, everyone who knows it. There will be a report, and before the report is published, there will already be a cabinet letter in which, according to the Minister last night, a lot of things are contained in the report of the Remkes Committee, which was not there at the time. Then, tonight, at 11.15 p.m., there will be one and a half A4's with three mini dots, and that is what the Remkes committee has got us. The whole polarization of society, in the agricultural debate! The state of nature, which is miserable! Everything's dead, the construction industry's dead. Construction companies will go bankrupt in the fall!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u57	I'm getting two elements out of this. Mrs Ouwehand points out that the Minister has been sitting on her hands, and that is my summary of the whole thing, and Mrs Bromet points out that the Minister acted too quickly, in anticipation of what the Remkes Committee came up with, with the April letter. I can see light in that. I am glad that the cabinet has not stopped thinking and has carried on with its efforts. If you look at the April letter, there's a very sturdy package. I really do not think it is possible to conclude here, on the basis of what the Remkes Committee said and on which the cabinet sent a letter last night, that these are minor, small points. That is absolutely not the case. From an effort to a result obligation, that's huge. Think about it. I see Mrs Bromet's gestures now. Why don't you go talk to the people who should be doing it in a minute? Then you will realize that this is huge and that it has an impact on our society that may not know its equal. But it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr Geurts does not have to tell me that. I have just said that I proposed this on 19 December in a motion. The CDA also voted against it at that time. Luckily, the CDA is over now. But I can only conclude with regard to the Remkes Committee's report that it actually ended up in the garbage bin within a week, and I find that a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u59	You probably already came up with that conclusion yesterday morning and the letter of inquiry has no longer played a role in your consideration. I'll leave it for you, for Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u60	The profit of this debate is that it is now admitted that the old targets in the law were completely meaningless, otherwise this step would not have been so important. But that's not the question I want to ask. Look at all the conclusions of the Remkes report: the increased ambition to reduce nitrogen emissions, to stop making buy-back schemes, to stop subsidising biofuels; a whole package of measures that 80% to 90% do nothing about. The question I have to ask is: what was the point of the Remkes Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u61	Raising the tone doesn't make it easier for me to react. What is the point of the Remkes Committee? I think that the cabinet has already taken on board a number of very important points from the Remkes Committee's opinion. I will come to the balance of substances in a moment; that is another example. I really see opportunities and targets for improving manure legislation in the Netherlands and making it more workable. Let me come back to the first part of Mr Futselaar on the targets. I think you really need to read the package again and also the letter of April, page 12, where all these source measures are mentioned and where at the bottom of the line a sum of 5.9 billion for nitrogen is deployed by this cabinet. Then you cannot say: targets and it was necessary. Bullshit! It's just a solid package. It is being tried to provide an even better legal basis, but I think that the April package was already very solid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u62	The tragic thing is that I am not saying that it is all bad, but that the Remkes Committee has said that it is all ineffective. Mr Geurts objects if I raise my voice, so I will ask this calmly. Why would anyone in the future take Mr Geurts seriously when he proposes that a committee be set up when dealing with the results of a committee in this way? Then it is: yes, but the CDA does draw its own plan, whatever comes out of it, and then it's all just one big delay movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u63	I find it a little difficult to respond to that. Delay movement? No, that wasn't a slow-down at all. A party here has just said that the cabinet has done too little too slowly. Another says the cabinet has too fast... I don't know any of it. So I'm in the middle and I feel at home again. I think we did the right thing. Mr. Futselaar, I didn't want to bring it up today, but I'm also a bit besieged by all kinds of people when I made my comments about the math model. If you look now at the report produced by the Hordijk Committee, I would like to bring that up at another time, because I do not think that there is any room for this in the four minutes speaking time today, then I am quite right about measuring and knowing. You are talking about taking Mr Geurts seriously. Sometimes you're wronged in the beginning.There CDAs are often affected by............................................................................................................................................................................................... I don't need a statue. That's not what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u64	What do you say, Mr. Bishop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u65	I hear something about statues. We have a very nice statue of Jan van Schaffelaar in the municipality of Barneveld. Mr Baudet knows all about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u66	Oh. Is that right? Okay. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u67	The Hordijk Committee simply says that the RIVM calculation models are good. That is the conclusion of the Hordijk Committee. She gives some advice on how you could do it, but the essence is that those math models are good. In the previous discussions I had with Mr Geurts, I said that he wrongly made RIVM look bad. He did, and so did others at that time; I absolutely maintain that. My conclusion is this. Mr Geurts talks about the CDA and says that they should have a statue, but the CDA's policy with regard to the Remkes Committee's report is exactly similar to the policy that the CDA has been pursuing on the nitrogen problem for decades, namely: if we pretend it is not there, it might go away by itself. That's never worked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u68	That is an opinion and I leave it to Mr Futselaar. The report by the Hordijk Committee should be discussed in detail at another time. The Hordijk Committee points out that the model for the Netherlands works well overall, but that it can differ considerably at certain x- and y-points, with major consequences for farmers and their families, for example. I hope that Mr Futselaar will look again at the report of the Hordijk Committee on this point. Maybe we can find each other in another debate or that he can at least agree with me, because that is what the Hordijk committee is saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u69	Believe it or not, the Animal Party is always doing its best to see where we have similarities with the CDA. I always get a little hopeful when the CDA thinks it should be fair to farmers. Then I think: yes, it must be fair to farmers. But then the CDA leaves us every time. Why does the CDA, like the Animal Party, not say: stop subsidies for biomass; everyone should contribute? And why does the CDA continue to defend the interests of that one sector? The only person interested in a herd growing out of the fold in the Netherlands is the cattle feed industry, while farmers would like to work with fewer animals and have not been helped by innovation at all. They have to put money into it, but then it doesn't turn out to be enough, because then there are rules again. Why does the CDA persist so persistently in the interests of the animal feed industry rather than opting for what is also really best for the farmers themselves in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u70	When I tabled a motion with Mrs Bromet last week, I then thought: how could I manage to get the Party for Animals and the CDA to table a joint motion? At the moment, I didn't get much further than: such a motion doesn't become meat or fish. Anyway, the thinking doesn't matter to me. Perhaps we could find each other on what Mrs Ouwehand is using here: the earning model of our agricultural sector. That is what we occasionally discuss here in the Chamber, and we have not done that properly. We haven't gotten that right yet. But what I do not understand from Mrs Ouwehand is that the Animal Party wants the entire livestock sector in the Netherlands to get out of it. It starts with 70%, then 90% and then 100%. How can you maintain that you have the best interests with the farmers and that you want a model of income for the farmers, while you want to chase them out of the Netherlands on the other side? I have had that for seven years, as long as I am a Member of the European Parliament, that is almost eight years ago in September, but perhaps the light will come into my mind today about how Mrs Ouwehand sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mrs. Ouwehand? No. That's what I thought. Proceed, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u72	I would have been so excited, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Up to 2050 global demand for food is expected to increase by 70%, while climate change and environmental conditions are making an increase in production increasingly difficult. We see that at close range in our country, where we find a new balance between ecology and economics. Our food supply is partly dependent on fresh water and healthy soils. The CDA supports structural funds for nature restoration, but I also believe that hydrology is or becomes a greater problem than nitrogen. Especially on high sandy soils and shaky nature, this is a challenge. Does the Minister share my opinion? And if so, what is the Minister's commitment to the provinces? And how is the Minister going to ensure that natural recovery funds are quickly effective in reducing the nitrogen sensitivity of nature? Mr. Chairman. There are many concerns and concerns among farmers who are waiting for clarity about keeping their farms legally and fertilising and grazing. In other sectors, too, there are formally unauthorized situations. That legal hole needs to be closed very quickly. Otherwise, entrepreneurs cannot invest in a low-emission future. The CDA is not jumping to open external salads. We may be able to prevent external netting even largely if there is a threshold for construction. Or am I wrong, I would like to ask the Minister. A switch to new food production systems requires high investment. Our farmers want to, but they can't. I sincerely wonder if we have enough eye in this house for that. Mr President, concluding. The proposed feed measure feels like a bone in the throat to us. We are getting too many responses that the measure threatens animal health and farmers' income model. An alternative feed plan has now been submitted to the Ministry of LNV from the dairy farming organisations. Can the Minister outline what this plan is about and what it is about? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u73	Mr Geurts was the one who tabled the motion to set up the Remkes Committee. I have tabled this motion, which I co-signed, because I also saw that the problem was very complex and that you should come up with a coherent solution, just outside the political heat. Now the opinion is written down in a letter of two sides. There are a few points that have been raised. Does Mr Geurts share the view that the Minister should give an appreciation to all the recommendations of the Remkes Committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u74	If you ask the Minister to respond to Remkes' report, the answer is yes. Whether she should respond to everything... There are a number of things that are such an open door and are also in the cabinet letters. I do not expect the Minister to repeat what she thinks. But if you have this question, I'd be happy to pass it on to the Minister. I would like to ask her if she would respond, if I may translate it so freely, to the Remkes Committee and, in particular, to those points which have not yet been mentioned in cabinet letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u75	I thought it was an interesting debate, even after the role of the CDA in perhaps the past few decades. It was the Balkenende cabinet that actually started setting up Natura 2000 in so many places in the Netherlands, against all advice or warnings. The CDA is co-responsible for the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The CDA is responsible for all these rules and all those investments that farmers have had to make, making them dependent on banks. In other words, I wonder: has the CDA been so naive in recent years, or is it malice? The CDA is pro-European Union. Everything has to go to Brussels. Now we get it from Brussels and the CDA is pretending to stand up for the farmers. I'm having trouble with that. I therefore ask Mr Geurts to deal with the role of his own party in recent times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u76	If we are going to make a timeline of how things came to be, Mr Madlener is not complete. Natura 2000 was designed at the time of the Purple Cabinet. Look towards Minister Brinkhorst of D66 House. What I am saying is confirmed by someone here in this Chamber who has been very close to it, Mr De Groot; that is what I see from the movements that are now being made. Minister Veerman was thus confronted in his first week with a present from a previous cabinet. Prime Minister Balkenende has also made considerable efforts to adapt Natura 2000. That has not happened on many things, but on a number of things it has happened. So don't blame the CDA for everything. Yeah, we've been on national government for decades. We do our best to contribute in the government to make the Netherlands better. But it is also a constant question of whether it is feasible and affordable. I just heard them say, "The CDA has nature..." Then there is a reference to Secretary of State Bleker et cetera, but everyone forgets what economic time the Netherlands was in. The Netherlands faced major economic challenges and then you have to make choices. I think that the choices made at that time have also provided the right Dutch word for "sharpment" and have opened the eyes of nature organisations to the management of nature. I think we are reaping the benefits of this to this day. But if the PVV comes up with so many blames, I say that the PVV, if it can take government responsibility for once, will run away if it becomes just as difficult. That happened in 2012. Then be serious, I'll tell the PVV. Then do not go here blaming other political parties, but just take responsibility. Stay where you are and try to make the Netherlands better together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u77	My next question. Mr Geurts is actually pointing to other parties again. The CDA is largely responsible for the situation of agriculture in the Netherlands today. Mr Geurts must acknowledge that, mustn't he? The CDA is from the European route: the European Union is fantastic. We are now getting over all this misery from Brussels. Farmers depend on banks with large investments or they are too small to make investments. That leads to the biggest peasant protest in years, under the CDA. Doesn't Mr Geurts ring a bell and he doesn't think: gosh, maybe we should look at ourselves and what the CDA did wrong? In view of Mr Geurts' reply, he would prefer to look at others rather than his own role. I'm sorry to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u78	I think I've given a nice reflection. That is the opinion of Mr Madlener. Let me just take the point about Europe. Europe has brought much to Dutch agriculture and horticulture. Look at our export position vis-à-vis Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom. Now you can see that the Brexit, which the PVV is a great supporter of, is becoming a great tragedy for our entrepreneurs in agriculture and horticulture. You can also see the consequences of the Brexit on fisheries, which Mr Madlener always claims to stand up for. Imagine the fact that the Netherlands is going to do a nexit; imagine what that means. I am of the generation who remembers that all these trucks will have to stop at the border. The other day, with the corona, we were able to see a little bit of that, when countries are going to close their borders. I'm gonna finish up, Mr. Chairman. As you can see, I am very enthusiastic about Mr Madlener's reply, because what is being said here is simply bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr President, thank you very much. A densely populated fertile delta forms a very exciting combination with natural values. You will only find a balance in this if all stakeholders, all stakeholders and all parties work together. I often have in discussions and in policy assessment the case that the idea of together, together at home you have to do it together sometimes something is compromised. I look, for example, at the policy. Specific nature values are defined and protected up to the square millimetres, while the scope for action for agricultural holdings is sometimes and largely lacking, also in the present proposal. As an example, I would like to mention a ban on fertilizers and 50% reduction in ten years' time. That lacks any sense of reality, unless you really intend to do so and want to destroy the agricultural sector, especially livestock farming. I am also looking at the feed regime as proposed, a far-reaching grip in the farm toolbox. Veterinarians fear animal health. Connoisseurs are very nervous about counterproductive effects. The temporary regime provides temporary nitrogen space, so de facto only for construction site emissions. I have a specific question: how much is needed for the latter after the measures already taken at the end of last year, which entered into force in the spring? Why is the 10 to 20 mol of nitrogen reduction not used for this by the corona measures? Isn't that what happens when it comes to climate action? The Minister states that it can be used in special cases. I agree with Mr Geurts' question. I, too, have heard that an alternative plan has recently been proposed by the sector. I would like to hear from the Minister to what extent she is open to that. The government has committed almost EUR 2 billion for clean-up and only EUR 0.5 billion for barn and management measures, while at least three times the amount of nitrogen reduction per euro, according to the documents. I'd say, why not the other way around? That's much more likely, isn't it? In last night's letter, the Minister is indeed making a small move. I would say that the other leg also needs to be retrained and at least let it depend on the processes of the area. I have another specific question to ask the Minister: how will she make use of the recent report Spatial approach to the nitrogen problem of the Wageningen University & Research (Sorry, Minister; the WUR) which proposes a much more balanced approach to the problem and develops a roadmap? Mr. Chairman. The announced law, like the Remkes report, is too focused on the absolute one-dimensional critical deposition values. They do not do justice to the large differences per area. Pick up the deposition values and the target values area-oriented, based on the local situation and embedded in the local approach there are wonderful examples of.................................................................................................................................................................... No nationwide critical deposition values and no national targets with corresponding legal issues. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, I would just like to ask the Hordijk committee how the Minister is going to take up the criticism that the committee has expressed about the calculation models. This should be less detailed and not double standards. Then there is the issue of voluntary emission reduction in the current approach. It's just actually being punished. Emission reduction by initiatives such as Cows & Opportunities is not written into anyone's account, because "it is not a government measure," whereas it can be of great regional benefit. If you as a farmer voluntarily apply reducing techniques, it will become your new reference and will not help your company yourself. What possibilities does the Minister see to honour voluntary emission reduction? Mr President, I would like to ask a few other questions, but you are no longer allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u81	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u82	So I'm saving it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u83	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u84	Or I'll put them in an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. The response to the nitrogen crisis must not only restore nature, but also, above all, restore the possibility of licensing. This will support a rapid recovery of the economy after the corona crisis. In this light, I am pleased that the cabinet and the coalition are adjusting the plans on two important points. One point is to allow a threshold for construction. That's what everyone wants, the construction industry first. Although I expect construction companies to be financially supported in the purchase of sustainable construction equipment. The other point is innovation. Like the Remkes Committee, the VVD expects a lot of new techniques in agriculture that significantly reduce ammonia emissions. Provinces like Drenthe and Limburg have already said that they prefer innovation rather than buy-out. So I am pleased that 250 million is being set aside from the buy-in budget, so that the sector can prove that innovation has a lot of potential. We will then achieve the same or lower nitrogen emissions in a more cost-effective way. So that is actually a pot that can be earned by the sector, by using 250 million for subsidies to help farmers make that innovative investment. Mr. Chairman. I still have a few questions about the government's approach. First of all, I would like to call for the agreed screening of Natura 2000 sites to be completed quickly. After all, if areas or objectives can be removed, that also increases the KDW in such an area and therefore less effort is needed to come under such a value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u87	I have a question for Mr Harbers on construction. I have spoken this week with many contractors and with the chairman of Building Netherlands. They were actually at an end. They said, "We can't do anything. The permit is locked. If this continues, we will have the first bankruptcies in construction in 12 weeks." Does Mr Harbers think that this threshold is some sort of miracle cure that is going to help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u88	Within the nitrogen crisis, nothing is a miracle cure. But Mrs Bromet, myself and everyone here knows that the construction sector very much wants that threshold, precisely because construction projects, especially in the housing sector, have very often very little nitrogen emissions. You are right: it has yet to be realized. But I think it is an important step that this part of the Remkes opinion is taken over, that the cabinet will be working on it quickly, and that this can certainly provide some relief for construction for the next ten years. It's not enough. That is why many other measures are needed in order to look everywhere to see how we can make progress in the granting of permits for construction. But it is an important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u89	I think it is very important that the construction can continue. We want, of course, that all those people who are waiting for a house no longer have to wait and be able to live. Nor do we want contractors to go bankrupt or people to be fired. However, the Remkes Committee's report has shopped: only the threshold has been removed. That's very worrying. Lawyers say nature must be restored. That is at the heart of the problem. Nature is in poor condition and needs to be improved. A threshold really simply means an exemption for nitrogen emissions. That is not going to work, we have been told earlier by the cabinet itself, which does not want to introduce a threshold. And now all of a sudden I'm calling it a miracle cure. It's written down in a letter because the construction wants it very much. I'm very afraid we're making construction happy with a dead sparrow right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u90	No, I'm fighting the suggestion that there's been a shop. I know damn well what it takes for such a threshold. First of all, this threshold requires a plan with the construction sector on how the construction equipment will be preserved over the next ten years. In order to achieve this, we must also make it possible for this to be rewarded by the fact that the contracts with that durable material are being awarded to the public. I am well aware that companies do not have the millions or billions ready in advance to buy all that equipment right away. So the government also needs to see how it can financially help to buy that. Over the next ten years, if there is equipment, you will be able to look further and further at whether it is actually being used and whether it is legally secure. Then you can use that for the threshold, but that's not enough. That is why, as a VVD, we have agreed to strengthen the target system and its governance with an obligation to achieve results. I would have preferred not to, but I would like to do so in order to give extra legal comfort there so that that threshold will work. So this isn't easy. Nothing in the nitrogen file is easy, but this is the way it should go. This is also exactly the reaction of Bouwend Nederland that I just found in my mailbox. I see now and again, from the cabinet and from the Netherlands, the good will to get out of this way and to have a legally anchored threshold as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u91	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u92	Mr President, very briefly. I hope the judge feels the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u93	I have a question about the revision of Natura 2000 sites to which Mr Harbers just referred. I myself always call that in my head "the committee wasting time." However, you are working on it and I have looked back at the first debate on the nitrogen deposition we had here two days after a year ago. Then there was a rather fierce discussion between D66 and the VVD, because Mr. De Groot was a little less tamed then than now. In response, Mr Weverling, who was then a spokesperson, said: "We are complying with the Nature Protection Act and we are not going to delete it in the number of Natura 2000 sites. My question is whether the VVD has changed its position since last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u94	Well, it's been known for a long time that we're open to it where we can. I am also sparing the expectations of removing many areas, but the aim of this whole operation is to look at all the conservation objectives that lie underneath it. Are they still relevant? Are they realistic at all? Even if you delete a target here and there, that reduces the pressure it places on the critical deposition value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u95	The VVD said that the goal is to restore nature and restart the licensing process. I acknowledge that Mr Harbers is relatively new welcome to the Committee on Agriculture, but this is the debate that has been going on for 25 years and every time the aim is to restart the granting of licences, without the risk of them being destroyed again. We now know exactly what needs to be done, what lawyers have been saying to us all these years: the worse nature is going to be, the harder the judge will be to look at new permits applied for. Now the VVD agrees with a package that is already clear in black and white that it is not going to do enough for nature. In other words, the VVD knowingly takes a risk with those permits that it says are important, for example for construction. I don't understand. Why should the VVD choose the interests of intensive livestock farming over the interests of Building Netherlands and that people simply don't have to sleep under a bridge?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u96	I was in a hurry to draw out the interruption that Mrs Ouwehand has been saving for me, but the bottom line is that as a VVD we look closely at the Netherlands and realize that we have to do what we have been doing in the Netherlands for centuries, namely to give room for all functions on a very limited territory. It is not just about nature, it is not just about agriculture, it is about business and it is not just about housing. We do a lot with 17 million people in a very small place in the world. That is going very well and we are looking for the smartest, most efficient and also most cost-effective measures. The big difference after last year's court ruling is that there is now a structural approach that sets a target for 2030 and that it is supported by a comprehensive package of source measures that will hurt everywhere in every sector, but where you keep the balance in all those sectors. That is also the big difference, Mr Moorlag, and I am sure that I will take an advance on that between the cabinet approach and the opinion of the Remkes Committee on this point. The cabinet says we're going to achieve 26% nitrogen reduction. Remkes says it should be 50%. The difference is that the cabinet has a fully calculated package of measures underneath. I didn't see that at the Remkes committee. The cabinet says: this is ambitious, but also realistic. I very much doubt whether it is realistic and ambitious in ten years, let alone whether it has been passed on by the RIVM and the PBL. I am also curious whether the Minister knows what the RIVM and the PBL think of that part of the opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u97	It's nice to give the Remkes committee a spin and say: thank you for the advice, but it's not calculated, so we wipe our asses with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u98	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u99	No, you didn't. I'll fill that out for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u100	Those are your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u101	There's no difference. The difference that Mr Harbers is trying to explain here is that we are taking steps now. What we know is that the law says that nature must not deteriorate further. If you don't stick to that, you can just forget about your permits. I honestly don't understand. In all the years before, it has been the agricultural spokesmen who have given away a little unnoticed all the space that was there to the bio-industry. The Council of State's ruling made you happy to see that the alarm bells started ringing in those parties, and that other spokesmen said, "What did you saddle us with, because the whole country is now locked." I do not understand why the VVD makes the same choice and the same mistake: the bio-industry can continue. Then what happens to the construction and to people who need houses? You don't care about anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mrs Ouwehand does not recognise what is required in this package of agriculture. It does not contain all the measures that Mrs Ouwehand would like, but it calls for a large number of measures from the agricultural sector. A difference of style or disagreement will be that I believe more in innovation than Mrs Ouwehand, just to highlight one point. There is an incredible demand for the agricultural sector, also for the sake of other sectors. There is also a great deal of demand from other sectors. That is the balance that always plays in the Netherlands, and which also offers the only way out of this whole nitrogen event.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr Harbers says: look how good it is, because real steps are being taken. That is true, but the question is, of course, whether it is good enough. The Remkes Committee speaks very clearly about this. He says: the approach is too much like looking for rack and space and the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. The Remkes Committee says: you have to go to 50% reduction, otherwise the authorisation will be compromised. I share Mr Harbers' view that there is more than nature. It has an intrinsic value. But it is also about economic development and housing. How can we be sure that the granting of licences will start again if we abandon 24% of that 50%?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u104	I am not saying that with one measure everyone gets a permit without any effort. A threshold is needed for construction. Many other measures are needed. It will still be a lot of puzzles in the area-oriented approaches, but the instrument box is now quite filled, with internal salading, external salading, ecological underbuilding and the ADC-key. I wouldn't have liked to have these rules, but unfortunately in a crowded country these puzzles are part of getting a permit. We shouldn't be doing a game here about who takes over most of Remkes. What is the test for me at the end of the day is whether the concrete measures that we are putting in place here for entrepreneurs and for anyone who wants something in this country are manageable, affordable and actually feasible. Then they have really taken a giant step, which requires a lot from every sector. We need a plan that delivers 100 to 120 moles a year. This plan, with a bandwidth, yields 103 to 180 moles. There is therefore a strong buffer to achieve this goal by 2030. On one point, I simply disagree with the advisory board. The advisory board says that everything must be settled by 2050; to be sure, we propose that this is already done by 2040 and that you have to double your effort by 2030. The whole deadline of 2050 is not prescribed by the Birds and Habitats Directives. The Birds and Habitats Directive says that you need to restore your nature and that you need to take constant steps towards improvement. There is no final deadline for this: as long as you keep following the road up. That is exactly the way the cabinet has embarked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u105	There is a great deal of light between the way of the cabinet and the advice of the Remkes Committee. More than 50 measures and recommendations are being made. Does Mr Harbers share my view that the Minister should give an appreciation to these recommendations and that she should also provide a comprehensive appreciation of the opinion, which is a coherent approach? That's what that committee deserves, at least, for my taste. It belonged to people of name and fame and they have put an incredible amount of effort into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u106	Sure. I agree. That question has already been asked to the Minister. Anyway, I think that Remkes' report, whether there are measures in it that you are for or against, will be under the pillow with every party in this Chamber for a while, to see how we move forward in the next few years with nitrogen. But we should not pretend here either that there is nothing in that letter that is always the disadvantage of a somewhat shorter For there were 50 recommendations, but we all know what prevails: the legal guarantee, the threshold for construction and the remark, which I very much welcome, that there is more potential for innovation in agriculture. There is not only attention to the input/output control, but also to whether you should clean up other rules for farmers. All these key points have already been served and arrested by the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u107	Politics is sometimes very sad. When I hear Mr Harbers like that, I have to get out of my chair. Because I argued here years ago for a threshold for higher nitrogen standards. I tabled a motion for this and the VVD voted against it. Now the VVD is shouting: it is good that there is a threshold. That's a low point, isn't it? That's not my question. Mr Harbers talks about innovation, but what the VVD has done mostly is bullying motorists, which has nothing to do with innovation. It gives almost no nitrogen space, that 100 kilometers, it really gets almost nothing, and now the VVD comes with huge investments in hugely expensive modifications to construction machines, to cranes and I know it, which hardly emit nitrogen. It's compared to a goose poop on a field to make the equation. And that will cost hundreds of millions, perhaps even billions of euros. Isn't it economical to put your resources in there where it doesn't pay so much? How can the VVD defend such poor economic policy here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u108	If you push through that reasoning, you could cancel a lot of government spending. But you also want to make things possible in this country. And sometimes the only way to make things possible in the short term is to put money into it. In the long term, it will probably happen automatically in construction, because it is making it more sustainable. But we don't have the luxury of waiting until 2040 or later. It's about how fast we can make the construction financially sustainable. This provides the basis for a threshold. At the same time, this is the crucial difference between Mr Madlener's approach and the VVD's approach. We are both in favour of a threshold; everyone in this room is in favour of a threshold. But you can't simply enter it, you have to do something for it. And that was missing from Mr Madlener's motion a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u109	Your last question, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u110	The VVD is partly responsible for the mass immigration of recent years, and certainly Mr Harbers is responsible for this. In this cabinet, in the past cabinets of the VVD, van Rutte, a record of new people came to the Netherlands, who are often low-skilled. 400,000 people added: that's four times Delft. That's gonna blow out a hell of a lot of nitrogen. What the VVD does is say on the one hand: come all the way to this country, go and drive, I know, and then the VVD comes up with measures to bully the driver and to bully builders with very expensive measures. It's crazy, isn't it? If the VVD is thinking about it, doesn't it know that this is an economically totally irresponsible VVD policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u111	I thought, "Where the hell is he?', But I'm not going along with the equation to see people as unwanted nitrogen machines. There is a lot of good to tell about migration policy and there are a lot of things that need to be done better. We work on that all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u112	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u113	Mr. Chairman. In listing projects that can use the development reserve, I still miss the industry, which often has a small impact on many Natura 2000 sites. Will the Minister also bring these projects under the development reserve? And what does she think of the desire of seaports to quickly obtain umbrella licences so that companies can internalise with other companies within the same cluster? Mr. Chairman. The proposed measure on feed raises a great deal of resistance. He also deviates from the principles of agricultural measures, namely that they are voluntary, that they focus on target requirements rather than resource rules and that they are developed with the sector itself. I also heard that there is now a plan from the sector itself to achieve the same result in a way that is practically more feasible. Does the Minister know this plan? What does she think? Is it prepared to abandon the force-feed measure in exchange for that offer from the sector? Then the input/output control; I just said it. Does the Minister choose the variant Remkes advises? This is what the VVD considers important, in order to delete other rules and regulations at the same time. Mr. Chairman. With regard to the stopper regime, I ask the Minister to arrange for farmers to be properly advised on financial and fiscal aspects. An alternative must always be possible, such as relocation and the associated use of land in the Empire. Then I come to the area-based approach. Does this also take account of the differences between the provinces? On the Veluwe, for example, a greater effort is needed, but at the same time the effect on the Veluwe in every AERIUS calculation is revealed throughout the country. This would therefore justify the fact that a little more is being done from natural resources for provinces, for example, on the Veluwe. How much rush is now being made with the PAS detectors? My information is that progress here is failing, because it is part of the area-based approach. Does the Minister agree with us that those affected really need clarity, especially because there are lawsuits and financers are turning off the money for their business in the meantime? We can't have that right now in the corona crisis. Finally. Initiators for external netting must report to the province so that they can transparently weigh the purchase in the context of the area-based approach. But as long as it is not yet complete, what spatial instruments will the provinces in the meantime have to take a legally sustainable decision on this? Mr. Chairman. There is now a comprehensive approach with measures that we welcome and measures that we can easily deal with. But the most important thing is that we get out of the nitrogen crisis quickly and make permits possible again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This umpteenth nitrogen debate takes place more than a year after the Council of State's initial ruling. We had an anniversary. The beginning of this debate is a logical moment to take stock. The SP and I, looking back on the past year and looking forward to the future, come to two fundamental conclusions. The first is that this Minister's nitrogen policy appears to be the most important issue in her portfolio of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The ecological, economic and legal problems we face are not yet apparent at the beginning of a solution after a year of consultation, letters of inquiry and emergency legislation. Mr. Chairman. My second conclusion is not too friendly either. The obvious, ever-recurring huge contradictions between the coalition parties on this issue make it impossible to find a sustainable solution within that coalition. That's why it takes so long every time there's progress. That is why we are constantly shielding ourselves with measures which are hardly making progress. Therefore, legislative proposals containing target values are published in consultation. These are legally soft butter, and nature doesn't get anywhere with them. That is why, at 11 a.m., we will have a hastily-clogged compromise before a debate, which does not involve any substantial changes. The coalition seems to think that this is a bit like the circular farming dossier: a pleasant container concept that everyone can explain in their own way and by the time there really has to be an effect, well, then there are elections again. But this is reality: every day that measures are lacking, nature continues to decline. Every day that measures are lacking, much-needed houses remain unbuilt. And every day that real measures are lacking, the jobs in construction disappear. You're sitting there and you're looking at it. Mr. Chairman. Then I can well imagine that the Minister and also the coalition parties are not impressed that I am giving nitrogen policy a severe deficiency, but so is the Remkes Committee. And the Remkes Committee was set up at the request of the coalition parties. So my first question to the Minister is: how does she indicate the lack of Remkes? Surely it is not nothing that a committee says such a thing about the essence of the Minister's policy? Does she endorse the conclusions of the report? And, importantly, is she actually going to implement the recommendations? I would, of course, like to ask specifically about the 50% reduction that we have talked about, but on which there is nothing in the letter. I'm reading about a threshold specific to construction. That's an excellent idea. Excellent. I am not just saying this because I proposed it myself in October. The problem is that the Minister has also talked about it a long time ago. In an interview in De Telegraaf in October she said: we are going to introduce a threshold for construction. Then why does everything still have to be sorted out now? Can the Minister explain that? Mr. Chairman. Will the Minister come up with a proposal not only to make nature reserves more robust, but also to connect them, as Remkes has recommended? I would almost call that an ecological main structure. Will the Minister not only make the nitrogen procurement policy more focused, but also less voluntary, as Remkes recommends? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State shot the PAS at the time, because there was not enough relationship between the reduction of nitrogen emissions and the release of emission allowances. In addition, there were too few guarantees that the nature objectives would be achieved. Not for nothing does Remkes see in the opinion similarities between the approach of the cabinet and the PAS. A year after the collapse of the air castle of the PAS, the cabinet seems to be on its way to build a new, larger air castle. But air is a bad foundation. This applies not only to construction, but also to legislation. We now seem to be moving towards policies that do not help nature enough, that do not help housing enough, and that are going to die again at the Council of State. Then we will be right back to square one, at the beginning of what is now the second year of the nitrogen crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u116	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. Mr Harbers has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u117	I would very much like to know one more thing. Mr Futselaar is so angry. I've been listening carefully to hear another idea somewhere between that anger. I'm just saying that Remkes, so the double target, needs to be followed. But I would like to know from Mr Futselaar what measures he is asking for from all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u118	That is an excellent question, because that gives me time to repeat the ideas that I have presented, for example, every now and then in the past year. For example, in October, I not only advocated a temporary threshold for housing and vital infrastructure. That was, of course, voted out by the coalition, because you have to come out of it yourself, and you cannot do that. I said much earlier than the cabinet: let us now bet money on nature recovery so that we can catch up. That took months and months and months, so that the catch-up we're in now is much bigger. But also, for example, very practical: because it is so difficult to find a legal basis, I have proposed that a committee of scientists, as suggested by the PBL, should be set up to assess whether or not a measure is effective and, on that basis, to justify it. That is a very clear method of ensuring that we have a legal guarantee. But if you don't want to listen to that and only come up with things that fit into political reality... that's what this coalition does. That doesn't help the real reality at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr Futselaar is still so angry. I am thinking in particular: perhaps this is also the reason why Mr Futselaar does not know how difficult it is sometimes to compromise in a coalition. I hear three things. I'm hearing about a threshold. But Mr Futselaar also knows that a threshold does not work if there are no measures to fill that threshold. Mr Futselaar says: even more money to nature. I'd say be happy, because there's 3 billion going to nature. But it's the old SP recipe not to tell where that money should come from. Because that means it has to come from somewhere else and people have to bleed for it. Finally, he talks about a committee of scientists, while the major criticism was that not everything should be put on a committee. I'm sorry, I can't make this a chocolate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u120	No, and I'm afraid that's because Mr Harbers doesn't have enough control of the file. I would like to say a few words about specific measures, because that is what he was asking for. At the moment, I say out of my mind, 1.3 billion dollars are being used, but it could also have been 1.5 billion dollars to buy up resources. That happens generically and on a voluntary basis. The Remkes Committee makes it very clear that this is not an efficient way of dealing with resources, nor will it work. You've got to do it in a targeted manner. You need to see where the biggest peak chargers are. I would add: what other major measures can you take, for example under the Water Framework Directive, CO2 emissions or odour problems? You gotta bet on that. But you can't do that on a voluntary basis alone. You'll have to be willing to say: then we'll take step two and use perseverance if possible. But this coalition is not prepared to do that. At least I don't read it in the letter; I like to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u121	As far as the first piece is concerned, I will immediately inform Mr Futselaar that it was not just in the letter last night. It was already in the letter of April 24th. Buying up is gonna be as focused as you can. That really is not an arrangement that everyone can sign up for. By the way, no one has to subscribe to it, because there is always an alternative to see for yourself with investments how to get your ammonia down. So this is just not right. The Remkes Advisory College says that this needs to be done in a very targeted way, with the buy-back scheme. That was already in the cabinet's plans for a long time. There is no difference of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u122	That is not what I and Mr Remkes think. I have no choice but to conclude.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mrs Bromet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr. Chairman. You can see it: it is an emotional debate. I've never seen Mr Futselaar so angry. Mrs Ouwehand is also very angry. Mr. Moorlag is angry and I'm also very angry. Oh, so is Mr. Baudet, but we haven't heard it yet; we'll hear it soon. Everyone's angry. That's not anger for the sake of effect, but because we've gone into politics to get things done. I live on the edge of such a Natura 2000 site, all my life. When I was little, it was very crowded with meadow birds and gruttos. I heard one this spring. That motivates me to stand up for nature. When a judge ruled on 29 May 2019 that the Dutch nitrogen policy is not right, as GroenLinks has known for 30 years, it felt like a victory, a breakthrough, the idea that it is finally going to change, that we are now going to give nature priority and really take care of nature, as a rich country. We can do it. We have everything in abundance, so we should also be able to take care of the grutto and all that other fragile nature? But it took so long. There was endless cake-making about measures and an advisory committee was set up. I had doubts whether I should agree to this, because it was quite clear what had to be done: there had to be less nitrogen, the maximum speed had to go down, the livestock had to be reduced and there had to be more nature in the Netherlands. That is the basis, but that is all too difficult for this cabinet. That is why a committee was set up. That committee could have been a breakthrough, because this polarized agricultural debate has been going on for years and years. It makes me tired and despondent. If you can't do anything, you're gonna be sitting here wasting your time. I would very much like us to agree on where we are going with agriculture. I think the farmers are very happy about this, as are the contractors, the inhabitants of the Netherlands and everyone who looks at these debates, in which the same positions are always held. And then this large-scale committee, which has thought very carefully and talked to everyone, comes with an opinion, but it is thrown into the trash. I'm very sorry about that. The government is there to rule, to make decisions, to finally put an end to processes that have been going on for years and years. But agriculture doesn't have a perspective, it's being steered in the wrong direction. And what's the result? We're gonna spread this all over until the election. Then there'll be another deal. I hope it's gonna be different. I keep hoping that, because otherwise I might as well stop doing politics. For now, it just looks like panic football. The cabinet has moved everything forward. At first they did not go to Brussels, because Natura 2000 could not be abolished. Oh, then we went to Brussels. Well, we haven't heard what came out of it yet. We didn't need a legal guarantee. I filed a motion in December. Now the good news tonight is that there will be a legal guarantee. We went to buy out farmers, but: "Oh, maybe it's not so efficient to buy out farmers, let's not buy out farmers." The Minister said that we need to sell externally and legally, and it doesn't need to be legally established anymore. I don't think so. It's panic football, it's not knowing which way we're going. Everyone here is a loser. Mr President, I will conclude. I'm also a positivo. We made a law. I don't think it's perfect, not at all. I'm very curious to know what the Council of State is going to say about it. The advice will come in a few weeks. I will do everything I can to get a majority in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u125	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I now give the floor to Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is an interesting debate, because it is very fundamental. As Mrs Bromet said, in her youth she saw a lot of gruttos, now she sees only one and that has motivated her. That is indeed the question, because if you want that grutto back in large numbers, you will have to change the landscape, so that the gruttos have more to eat or perhaps fewer foxes that eat the youngsters. But they're gonna be expensive gruttos. The question that needs to be answered here is: what kind of country does the Netherlands want to be? If you want to be a country with a lot of low nitrogen nature, then you end up in this situation. I can't do that. So it's a choice. Are we going to opt for low nitrogen nature? Is that more beautiful than nitrogen-rich nature? The PVV has answered this question by saying that we may have to accept that we cannot have a low nitrogen nature in many areas. Is that bad? When I look at the trends over the last 20 years, the positive is coming out of me and I see that biodiversity has improved slightly in the Netherlands since 1990 and that water quality has improved considerably since 1990. The emissions of nitrogen and ammonia have fallen dramatically since 1990. I also live at such a Natura 2000 area, where many people walk and enjoy nature. Then people come back with the story: gosh, what a beautiful nature we have. But that is nitrogen-rich nature, which is more nitrogen-rich than in 1800. This is because of industry, it is because of agriculture. Is that bad? Given the trends of recent years, I would say: no, perhaps we should be glad that nature is still relatively good in the Netherlands. We have beautiful nature documentaries that we can all see from nature that we are proud of, such as the Veluwe and all kinds of beautiful areas. That makes this debate very much relative, because the conclusion is that the Netherlands does not have a natural or environmental crisis, but a political and legal crisis, a crisis conceived and made by politicians. That's the sad part. Now the cabinet intends to spend almost EUR 6 billion to emit a very small amount of nitrogen, because the nitrogen emissions that come from abroad are also huge and we are not doing anything about that. It costs a huge amount of taxpayers' money. The farmers must be driven away, the drivers must no longer drive on the roads, and the builders are now being bullied by huge investments that will reduce almost nothing in terms of nitrogen emissions. That's totally wasted money, and that's what the VVD calls "innovation." The PVV chooses a different path. I shall then return to Mr Remkes' press conference. The first question asked by a journalist from De Telegraaf, if I am correct, was: Mr Remkes, have you also looked at the rules on nature, to make them more flexible or less strict? The answer was very clear: "No, we don't. Those rules are tough, they're fixed, and that's what we're assuming." These are rules that come from Brussels, which have been knocked down in Brussels through the Netherlands itself, through parties such as the CDA and the VVD, and are now hindering us, so that we can now turn in our economy and prosperity for a bit. The PVV is very opposed to that. I hope that many Dutch people who are following this debate will also look very critically at the parties here who think they are doing well for farmers, motorists and I know what, but in the meantime they are responsible for the mess we are in now. So the PVV says that crisis is a political crisis. There's no need for that. If we relax the rules a little bit, nature doesn't get any worse at all, because things are actually going pretty well with nature, Mr. De Groot, even though we have so many farmers, we don't have to take all these measures and we can just keep on doing it the way we do it. We're very good at that. Then innovation can simply come from the entrepreneurs themselves choosing this innovation and we do not have to waste 6 billion taxpayers' money on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u127	Mr Madlener just indicated that the PVV chose a different path. When I listen to this story like this, my conclusion is that that's a way to the abyss. Mr Madlener does not take into account the fact that we live in the rule of law and that we regularly have to deal with the judgments of the judge. If these problems are sometimes justified, usually justified, always justified; a judge should not argue in our rule of law on this point, I think you will find a way to find a solution. But I understand from the words of the PVV that a court ruling can simply be ignored. Would the PVV want to respond to that, or reflect on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u128	This is a completely absurd question. I'm not saying the judge doesn't have to follow the rules. I say that the judge must abide by the rules that you have devised, which you are pouring over the Netherlands through Brussels, and which you have devised over the past few decades from the Balkenende cabinet, as I have just said. It's your rules! I say change those rules so that the judge doesn't have to follow them and the judge can look at them more flexibly. So that starts with changing the rules, but you are not prepared to do so. You say that what comes from Brussels is sacred. Let the Netherlands pay, and let us do everything roomier here than the Pope. It can all cost a lot of prosperity! So don't bring up the rule of law now. Of course I'm in favour of a rule of law, like you. But then you have to change the rules, and those rules make you, and you are responsible for that. If you walk away from that responsibility, it's a little bit like you don't understand what you're doing here, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u129	"The rules make you." You are giving too much credit to the CDA Group. The PVV Group is also part of the Lower House, a significant part of the seats. So the responsibility lies as much on Mr Madlener's shoulders as on my shoulders. But here's what's important to me. There's a court order. The PVV took an attempt at that time, and I do find that to be praised in the PVV. But when we talk about illegal legislation, I cannot imagine that proposal, which we had adopted in the House of Representatives, had passed through the First Chamber. Because what does that nitrogen bill that was submitted by the PVV at the time say? Just close your eyes for three-quarters of a year. Go ahead, because there's nothing to worry about. That's not gonna be him, of course. What are the alternatives the PVV has to provide that court with a reply? Because I have not yet heard that answer from the PVV Group. Yes, it's all about Brussels, it's all about Europe. Well, that's not an answer, of course. You know it yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u130	We just want to change the rules. When I see that in Germany there is a threshold for construction of 7 moles per hectare, I am curious to see what the cabinet will come up with. Why can Germany and can't we? Why can Denmark and we can't? So you are actually trying to destroy the Netherlands to some extent, just because you have some kind of fetish for those rules and figures, while other countries deal very differently with the same reality, with completely different legislation. In Denmark they calculate the nitrogen emissions of an agricultural farm in a completely different way than in the Netherlands. And then you tell me I can't question those rules? That's crazy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u131	I have taken a clear position on Denmark. That has also led to the Hordijk Committee, and that has also led to a report from the Hordijk Committee...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u132	Of course, committees, committees!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u133	I think I was speaking, Mr President. The Hordijk Committee has produced a report on this, and we will continue to do so. So it's not true what you're saying about Denmark. It is not true what you say about Germany, because it has long been rejected in the Netherlands in court. As a result, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen has also been introduced in the Netherlands. I think the PVV is missing a lot from the debate we have had here recently. It looks like a piece of the hard drive has disappeared from the PVV fraction. I would advise Mr Madlener to look back in the reports, and not make any claims here: in Germany it is all possible. That did not go well in the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u134	In preparing for this debate, I have looked at another state: which countries are now strictly complying with the Habitats Directive from Europe? Those are very few countries. A lot of countries don't comply with that. However, it was not yet reviewed by the judge, it was said. But in the Netherlands everything is tested three times and probably those action groups are even subsidised with tax money. I can imagine that in the Netherlands. So the Netherlands is here as a kind of good boy as always looking at all the rules minutely, checking with the judge and looking at it again: oh, we don't comply with it. Go, gross six billion tax dollars. Construction machines are not allowed on anymore, because a tiny bit of nitrogen comes out. It's crazy, isn't it? We're totally lost here, aren't we? Or has our prosperity become too much for us and are we now trying to shoot ourselves in the foot and partially destroy ourselves? I'm afraid the latter. I hope there'll be some sobriety. I told you. Biodiversity is doing well. It's not going backwards, it's going forward. Air quality and water quality are doing well. Let's just be happy about that and let's stop all this billion-dollar waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. I think everyone's upset. All week long. It's not just today. Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not angry. People really need to come from a good house to get me mad, so I don't know if that's gonna work today. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Remkes Committee for the work they have done. The report's called Not everything can go anywhere. I think that is in line with what I said earlier in the debate on nitrogen, namely that we need to move towards a new balance: a balance between economics and ecology. Ultimately, it's about what kind of society we want to be and how we want to shape our economy. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, that is an economy that is at the service of people and which remains within the capacity of the earth. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go over a few topics. First of all, the targets. I read in last night's letter that the cabinet is opting for a legal anchoring of the reduction target. I think that is a good choice after the report of the Remkes Committee and the participation that has taken place in the consultation. My group wholeheartedly supports this. Of course, I have also seen that in this debate, too, the Remkes Committee has proposed a higher objective. But my question would be: how? How are we gonna fix that? What measures are these? I also notice a little fatigue in this debate when it comes to committees. Perhaps we should call it an advisory group, but we would like that to be mapped out once. If you wanted a higher objective, how? What measures are you taking? What does that mean, socially? What does that mean in society? And what does that do for nature? I'm open to charting that. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. Then the subject of construction. A threshold didn't seem possible for a long time, but now, after Remkes, we can. My group finds that very interesting. I am also pleased that the cabinet is working on this. I think it is important that there should be a threshold for construction, because construction can be the bearer of the economic crisis we are in. Construction can help us through the crisis. I think there is also a responsibility on the part of the government to exploit its own market power. I also have a lot of these debates with the Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for this. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of agriculture. I have received a great deal of reactions to the animal feed measure proposed by the cabinet. Some of the sector can do it, but some of it can't. In fact, everyone says: it is very legal and detailed, but does it ultimately contribute to the goals? Is it true that an alternative plan has now been presented from the sector? Who's in? Does the Minister support that? My question is also whether the animal feed companies are involved, because I think it is important that they commit themselves to this. I can't do it without them. Mr. Chairman. In Remkes' advice, I also read something about a dust balance. I would love it if we could get to work on this, also because of addressing farmers on their craftsmanship and working with target regulations. I read something about phasing out fertilizer. I'm so happy about that. I'd like that. I asked Timmermans that question last week. If I hear Timmermans, we can wait another five years for Europe. Can't we go any faster? What can we do from the Netherlands to get the alternatives to fertilizer applied? Sometimes I think: should we turn the whole of the Netherlands into an experimental area? That won't be possible, but let's see what's possible. I have another question about the termination arrangement. What happens after that? How does it go when a company is bought up? Is the space available used for nature and for the structural improvement of agriculture? Let's not forget that. Mr. Chairman. I also read a lot about innovation. I think it is important that it is at the service of a system change in agriculture. Finally, because I see that time is going very fast. There are many challenges in the rural area: nature, agriculture, energy, drought and biodiversity. I imagine that we will have an advisory group to look at how we can plan the future of the rural area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u137	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u138	There she is, the assassin of the agricultural sector. While our farmers are on the edge of the abyss...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u139	Excuse me for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u140	... Minister Schouten is doing everything in his power...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u141	Excuse me for a second. You're not gonna call the minister a murderer, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u142	From the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u143	No, you can't! Take it back. This can't be happening. This is going too far!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u144	I'm not taking that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u145	Well, I'm really shocked that you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u146	I'll take note of that. While our farmers are on the brink of the abyss, Minister Schouten is doing everything he can to push them off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u147	This is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u148	I really don't think this accusation is possible. I support our President-in-Office's call for these words to be taken back. This can't be happening. You cannot describe a minister in your first sentence, I say to Mr Baudet. You can't do that. You have not yet been able to justify this. But I'm asking you to just take this back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u149	I would really like to appeal to you to take back those words. You cannot agree with the Minister's policy. I will give you every opportunity to break down the substantive policy. But I just don't think it's possible to call someone a sniper. So I think it's okay if you just do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u150	I don't think the policy can be. I do not think the policy that is being made in the Netherlands is possible. I do not think the decisions that are being taken can be made. I believe that a murder is being committed on our agricultural sector. I hold whoever makes that policy responsible for that. I think that is not only my right, but even my duty, because it is our job as representatives of the people to criticise policy on the edge of the cut, to propose alternatives and to stand up for the people of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u151	Yeah, but not to call a minister an assassin. It just can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u152	If Mr Baudet does not take this back, I do need a brief suspension to discuss it with colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u153	We are debating content here with each other. I really do not think that Mr Baudet's statement is possible. I didn't hear him take that verdict back. I support the request for a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u154	It's only gonna get worse. I think that Mr Baudet is right to take the point back, also because the reasons he gives then simply do not go far and certainly do not support this statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u155	I imagine in a story or argument you need metaphors and images to make your story clear. You just have to reflect reality a little bit. I really consider Mr Baudet to take this back. I support that request. This is an disproportionate equation. We shouldn't do that. Some courtesy in dealing with each other is the least we can do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u156	Well, why don't we suspend for a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u157	A child who constantly screams for attention should not be rewarded with that attention. As far as I'm concerned, we're just gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u158	I like that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u159	I wanted to support you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is a good thing that the President has asked Mr Baudet to take back the words. I also like very sharp signs myself. That freedom must be there. But there are also limits. So thank you for the President's comment. I support them, too. At the same time, I also support Mr Futselaar: no more paying too much attention to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u160	I have a proposition. I'll say my first sentence again. There's an assassin on the agricultural sector, and the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u161	No, no, no. The question is, do you take that word back? Because your statement was directed at the minister as a person, as a minister, as a man. If you don't take that back...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u162	No, I'm not taking that back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u163	I'm very sorry about that. I think that is just insulting, in Parliament, but also to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u164	I'm aware of that, but I'm not taking it back. I'll make a proposal for an alternative first sentence. I've just pronounced it, but I can pronounce it one more time if you'd prefer. There is a sneak murder on our agricultural sector, and the people who implement that policy are responsible for it. While our farmers are on the brink of the abyss, they are not helped to get back to land, but are pushed away from it. The way in which this minister operates is sneaky and devious. In the meantime, the true background to nitrogen policy is becoming increasingly clear. It's not about restoring nature at all. In fact, nitrogen is a nutrient for plants, a substance that provides more green and ensures that affected nature can recover. It acts as if nitrogen suffocates nature, but the opposite is the case. Only certain plants, even species that do not occur naturally in the Netherlands, can occur in a smaller number as more nitrogen is emitted. But there are other species instead. In ecology this is called "succession," a completely natural process that we as humans should not want to interfere with at all. Why, then, is it this policy that destroys our agricultural sector? As the nitrogen approach continues to develop, it is painful to see what it is really about. The nitrogen policy is aimed at taking away the precious land from our farmers. It's land cock, disguised as a natural recovery; that's getting more and more obvious. The cabinet has a huge shortage of land. In order to implement the completely absurd and unfeasible Climate Agreement, thousands of square kilometres of megalomaniac wind farms and sunbathing areas need to be built. Every strip of green that can still be found must believe it. In a nature reserve on the Oude Maas even more than 1,000 trees are cut down to replace five mega-wind turbines of 187 meters high. In addition to the climate madness, there is a second mega-project for which everything has to give way, the mass immigration. Population growth is constantly increasing, almost purely and solely because of immigration. There's no end to it. According to CBS forecasts, the population will grow by over 1 million people over the next ten years. The cabinet sees the continuing flow of disadvantaged asylum seekers from Africa and the Middle East as a kind of natural phenomenon and does absolutely nothing to reduce immigration. Can the Minister indicate what 1 million additional people in the next ten years mean for our nitrogen emissions? If that were what the cabinet really cared for, the nitrogen problem, and if it were the cabinet to protect the farmers, then the cabinet would stop the climate madness and the ongoing immigration. That's not true. The so-called nitrogen problem comes before the cabinet as it were. The cabinet has found a reason to take away our farmers' valuable land. The way in which the so-called nitrogen policy is implemented confirms this: for housing, infrastructure and renewable energy generation, all kinds of flexible arrangements are made and exceptions are made, while farmers must firmly believe in them. In fact, the government wants to legally anchor the nitrogen targets. Where does the cabinet get the guts? During the last Lower House elections, the so-called nitrogen problem did not even exist. And now this cabinet is going to lay down in the law that future Cabinets will have to continue this malpractice until 2030 or perhaps 2050. This shows once again the dysfunction of our democracy. It is also becoming increasingly clear why the first thing this cabinet did was to abolish the referendum. 'Cause the public's being sidelined. The voter should have been able to take a decision on this, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u165	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u166	No, but I saw there was an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u167	You've got five seconds. Maybe you could wrap it up for me. Then I give Mr De Groot the opportunity to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u168	Mr. Chairman. Democracy Forum makes fundamentally different choices than this cabinet. We are going to stop the pointless climate policy and dismantle wind farms and sunbathing grounds. We don't take down trees to install wind turbines. We do not allow fertile farmland to die under a suffocating blanket of solar panels. And we don't allow hundreds of thousands of immigrants into our country. We want the Netherlands to remain recognizable Dutch. If we go down that road, there will be plenty of room for our farmers to remain farmers, with or without a fictional nitrogen problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u169	I can't rhyme with something. My room is two floors above Mr Baudet's. Occasionally sounds really beautiful piano music about the courtyard, music of quality and variety, which always reminds me of nature. I cannot reconcile this with the fact that Mr Baudet does not seem to rest until the Netherlands is one great desert of blackberries and nettles. That is absolutely incoherent. Apart from that: Mr Baudet talks about the functioning of democracy, but is he aware that this is about complying with a judicial ruling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u170	This is a point on which I have already spoken with Mr De Groot, Dr De Groot. De Groot has exchanged views: the theorem, which is completely incorrect, that more nitrogen would lead to a wasteland of only blackberries and nettles. That's just pertinently incorrect. It's not like the nitrogen in itself is bad for nature. You just get a little bit of a different kind of nature. We want to keep as a kind of museum in all those stamp areas that have been classified all of them, a certain kind of heathland, so much of a certain kind of moss and all that kind of stuff exactly as it was once agreed. That is the real problem. The real problem is not exactly where the amount of nitrogen would be, because in itself that is not bad for nature. It only creates a slightly different kind of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u171	It's about wealth. It's about variety. Nature is like this: the less nitrogen, nutrient, there is, the more creative and richer nature becomes. That is the basis of our biodiversity. The music you play is just as rich. Then why do you want to tear it down to the ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u172	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u173	I think that's a shame. You could also think of the fantastic landscapes and the nature that we still have and the better protection of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u174	This is just pertinently incorrect. Mr De Groot says: the less nutrients there are, the richer nature becomes. That's just pertinently incorrect. On rocky ground virtually nothing grows, so it's just not true. On the beach, on sand, where there are very few nutrients, very little grows. So the more fertile the soil, the more it grows. Because we have a lot of agricultural land, that land is likely to be exhausted. It is therefore a good thing that there are substances, such as nitrogen and fertilizers, which make the soil more fertile again and that a certain kind of heathland has developed in the Netherlands. This has happened as a result of human intervention in nature. It is therefore absolutely not the case that there would still be primal nature in the Netherlands. I like that and I like it, but I don't think it should necessarily all stay exactly the way it was 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u175	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u177	Well, you should know that I thought it was a sad display. Go ahead, Mrs. Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Mr President. The Netherlands Bank and the PBL conclude today in a joint study: if biodiversity decreases, it also puts the economy at risk. They say: the disappearance of species such as bees, which pollinate many food crops, would put some 510 billion euros of Dutch financial institutions at risk. Mr. Chairman. People can't live without nature, without biodiversity, without ecosystems. Without it, you have no life and no economy. It is illogical that we have been fighting against nature in the Netherlands for decades. Looking at the nitrogen policy of this cabinet, I say stop with miracles that are ultimately being knocked down by the judge, as has happened before with the PAS. The agricultural sector is responsible for almost half of our nitrogen emissions. Then make it attractive for more intensive livestock farms to stop. Of course, 26% reduction in nitrogen is not enough if the Remkes Committee says 50%. This is necessary to keep us at least to the law, which says that Dutch nature must not deteriorate further. Don't let farmers throw away any more money for innovations that don't seem to work. Encourage farmers to switch to zero-emission circular agriculture. And give the conversion to nature-friendly farmers a fair chance. Remkes says that the current financial instruments do not provide a sufficient basis for making the change with certainty. What's the Minister gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. Duplicating the nature budget sounds nice, but we are still below the level of before Bleker, who broke down nature and put a big line through the advanced efforts to connect nature reserves and make them robust. How is the Minister going to make nature more robust if we are far from restoring nature? What does the Minister do with the more than 50 recommendations of the Remkes Commission? The report has 175 pages, and the letter of inquiry is one and a half A4. Does the Minister take seriously the problems that are causing the whole country to stop and we are trapped in an unsustainable system? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-3.u180	I shall suspend the sitting until 1.15 p.m. Then we'll vote first, won't we? Yes, very good. And then the minister's gonna answer.
