ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u1	Let us now move on to the debate on the need to combine natural recovery with the revival of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u2	We have come to the answers of the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for allowing us to have this important debate here today. On 24 April last, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber containing the structural approach to the reduction of nitrogen and the improvement of nature. Those two go hand in hand with each other. This debate is about how we can protect our nature, because nature has intrinsic value. But by protecting nature, there is also scope for licensing and therefore for economic activities. Economic activities are not the end in themselves. It's about what you realize with it, for example, homes for people looking for a home, and also that activities in this country remain possible. Mr. Chairman. I think the core of the debate today has been mentioned in Mr Madlener's question: what kind of Netherlands do you want to be? Because this debate is about more than just how much money you spend in nature, or how much money you spend in reducing nitrogen. This is about fundamental choices that we have to make about the organisation of the Netherlands. That is an emotional debate, I noticed this morning, and I understand that. Because just when we talk about this, it can raise the question of what this means to everyone personally. What does it mean for my company? What does it mean for the nature reserve I love so much? Are there gonna be homes for my kids? All very understandable questions. It is precisely up to the politicians to weigh in on this and to debate it, so that we start this search with each other and ultimately make the choices that we have to make. It's not like there's only easy choices left. If only, then I would have just heard Mrs Leijten speak of an 'intense debate'; I think we could have seen this debate as intense too. We should not have had this intense debate. It's about something. In doing so, we must all be responsible for the choices we make and we must explain how we intend to proceed. Not in the least, I have to answer for that. That's why I'm here today. Mr. Chairman. In the letter we sent on 24 April last, the cabinet set the target of bringing at least 50% of the hectares of Natura 2000 sites below the critical deposition value by 2030. Translated into emissions, this requires an emission reduction of 26%. In this way, the overload of nature is reduced by nitrogen, and thus also the damage that nitrogen causes in nature. We combine this reduction in depositions with substantial investments in nature itself. It is always about that combination: on the one hand reducing nitrogen, on the other hand investing in the recovery of nature. This not only makes nature more resistant to nitrogen, but also improves the quality of nature. For example, we are taking important steps towards a favourable state of conservation for nature. The structural approach, together with the comprehensive package of source measures that we have presented, provides the instruments for this. We have had all these measures, both at cost and on effects, passed on to both the PBL and the RIVM, in order to get an independent check on them. In this way, we are trying to shape the improvement of nature in the long term, on the road to a favourable conservation status, as requested in the Birds and Habitats Directives. The cabinet is convinced that, with the objective laid down, a balanced balance has been found in the weighting of social, economic and nature interests. As we have said, we are also aware that this really requires a lot from society, from farmers, builders and other entrepreneurs. A monitoring and adjustment system shall also be used to optimise the impact of the measures. That's what we described in the package. The advisory board also commented on this. The system chosen by the cabinet is in line with the advice of the advisory board. This means that once a year we measure the nitrogen deposition effects and once every two years we monitor the source measures using nitrogen monitoring. We will also send a report to the Chamber once every two years on how it stands and whether the effects we aim to achieve will be achieved. Once every six years, we report the natural effects, in line with the pace of reporting to the EU under Natura 2000. We are therefore looking very closely at the effects and whether we need to adjust in time. Mr. Chairman. I'm almost done with my introduction. I'll just mention the cubes. I think it's good to notice that. The debate also asked how this package relates to preventing the deterioration of nature, which we really must avoid. All the steps we take lead to a reduction in nitrogen, but also to an improvement in nature. In this combination, we must continue to take steps forward to prevent deterioration. With the package that we have presented, the cabinet is convinced that we are going that way. Mr. Chairman. I have several cubes. The first is the structural approach. I will also answer the questions about the provinces. The second block is nature. The third block is agriculture. The fourth block is construction. There are then a few questions about the granting of permission and about measuring and calculating; just call it another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u4	I see Mr De Groot. And also Mr Baudet. Were you planning to interrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u5	I don't know yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u6	Okay. Then Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u7	I don't know exactly which block, and if you come back on that, I'll hear about it, but I have a question about monitoring. In the letter of 24 April there is a reference to a motion that this Chamber has adopted in order, let me put it bluntly, to preserve ordinary nature. This motion is not about the Natura 2000 nature, the red-list nature, but about the pike and frogs in the locks. You say that this package is an implementation of that motion. Are you going to include that ordinary nature in the monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u8	This really concerns the monitoring of the package. The package includes, on the one hand, nitrogen deposition and its effects, and, on the other hand, natural effects in their entirety, in particular the source measures, which contribute to getting there. The nature effects are therefore really focused on the Natura 2000 sites. It is also a European obligation to monitor this. The nitrogen deposition is of course in that totality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u9	Moreover, six questions apply to the Minister's term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u10	Now I'm just wondering out loud. Maybe we're not getting along with it today, but if you're gonna make that motion, you need to see how ordinary nature is doing. We're all here to prevent more species from appearing on the red list. So you have to bet on keeping that nature as it is. In addition, we look at the Natura 2000 sites. So I'm gonna have to ask you how you're gonna keep track of that and monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u11	We already have regular monitoring anyway. Unfortunately, we know that there are species on the red list, because we measure them, so that's no different than what we're going to do now. But this monitoring system is really part of the package that we have established here, with nitrogen deposition on the one hand and the state of Natura 2000 sites on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the block of structural approach. Some reasonable questions have also been asked about this, firstly by Mr De Groot, who has just been standing here for a while. He asks how I see the package in relation to the European Biodiversity Strategy. It is true that Europe presented it a few weeks ago. The cabinet is still in the process of giving an appreciation of that strategy, which you will receive very soon. That's where the 30% protected nature is central. It is therefore about the amount of protected nature at European level. That is what the European Commission's report says. It is not differentiated by country. We are talking about 30% protected nature in Europe. But, as I said, there will be a further appreciation of the cabinet on these plans of the European Commission. I think we will then have a more detailed debate on this matter. The question was also whether the ambition in that light is sufficient. Both the reduction path for nitrogen deposition and the biodiversity strategy is a long-term issue. It's not something you realized next year. The package is really taking a big step, which, as has just been said, strikes a balance between what nature needs and what is socially and economically feasible and portable. So we are also measuring very precisely what the impact is on nature and whether we should rethink it, including the source package. So this monitoring is really crucial to know if we are going to stay on the right path.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u14	I may be confused, but several references have been made to the transfer of the package by the PBL and the RIVM. I was wondering if we could get one, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u15	They are on the website of both institutes. If you want me to put a staple through it, I'm willing to, but they're just public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u16	Yeah, I think it's useful if there's a chamber piece we can refer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u17	It's a chamber piece. I think our people can turn that off for a while, but if you want to see it à la minute, it's on the PBL and RIVM websites. With the presentation of the letter, these transfers were also presented on the websites. I'll see if we can get it distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u18	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u19	By the way, I also come to Mr Harbers' question. He asked me through an interruption debate if I had asked PBL and RIVM to look at the opinions of the Remkes Committee. I asked, because I also wanted to know what the appreciation of PBL and RIVM was of what Remkes formulated. They did. I'm gonna grab it, 'cause this comes with the questions. The PBL actually came to the conclusion that it could not be appreciated in substance, because no specific measures were mentioned. We also asked whether the measures taken by Remkes could be quantified. They say that it is not possible, on the basis of the report, to assess the effectiveness of nitrogen deposition emissions or nature. They also say that the measures will have to be further developed in order to be able to pass them on. This applies both to the source measures and to the spatial planning proposals. They informed me in writing. This is the summary of what they have mentioned therein.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u20	That's interesting. Bearing in mind what Mr Futselaar just asked, that we can all read it all again, I ask if the Minister is able to provide these documents to the Chamber as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u21	Yes. If I have the documents distributed over the bank transfer, I will immediately have the answers of PBL and RIVM distributed to the questions I have asked. That's fine. Mr Moorlag has asked a number of questions. He asked me how I was going to conduct the critical assessment of the Remkes Committee. We have set up the Remkes Committee at the request of your Chamber. It was a motion from your Chamber that asked me to set up this committee. There were some comments that I would have used it as a postponement tactic, but it was your Chamber that asked me to set up this committee. Then so do I; you know that I do when asked. In the meantime, by the way, we have continued our work and we have also continued to work on the implementation of a structural package. But we are not deaf to what the Remkes Committee has said either. I think you're gonna let that last night... excuse the late hour of that. I realize it's not nice when a letter comes in when you've just gone to bed, but it's all been pretty short notice getting all the stuff to the Chamber in time. I would like to do it for this debate, so that's why I'm late for delivery. So, as you can see in that letter, we have actually looked at the Remkes report, particularly at the point of whether it is legally secure enough, the point of whether the construction needs to be specifically looked at and the point of investment in agriculture, so whether you really are looking at where you achieve most of the effects and get most of the mill per euro, if I may smash it so flat. On these three points, you have also seen that we have taken on board what the Remkes Committee has included. We will therefore also take the relevant issues into account in the further development of the legislative proposal, which has been submitted for consultation. A lot of other things are either already in the structural approach, or are matters that we will take into account in sections that are running, which are going on. So there are aspects of the report of the Remkes Committee in which indeed some notes are cracked for which we have really looked at how to translate them. On other points, we had the same conclusions ourselves, for example on the monitoring system and on the importance of a number of measures that were already included in the structural package of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u22	I'm just looking at how far you are in this section, about the structural approach. Any comments?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u23	Well, they're still a few questions, because most of the questions were about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u24	That's good. Then I'll go to Mr Futselaar. Or do you want to wait?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u25	Mr President, my question concerns the threshold value for construction. I don't know if that's gonna be built in a block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u26	That's gonna be in the building block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u27	Then I'll wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u28	The note that came so late last night does not, in my opinion, do justice to the advice and recommendations of the Remkes Committee. That's really a lot of work. It's a comprehensive report. It's coherent, it's solid, it's balanced. Then the note says that we are adopting a number of these recommendations. But very fundamental recommendations are not accepted. This is about 26% nitrogen compared to 50%. There's something in there about buffer areas. There's something in there about connecting zones. There really is something about an approach to getting a good balance between economics and ecology. I do not understand why the committee is, as it were, offended by going so briefly into a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u29	No. If the impression is that we have offended the committee, I say that is by no means my intention, because I also appreciate the work done by the committee. This also applies to the Hordijk Committee. Those are people who have worked very hard on this report. Let me make it clear that what we sent last night is a response to the main points. It is true that, of course, the report covers much more than just the subjects we have just identified. Those were just a number of issues that we have already said we must take real steps to achieve, including in the legislative proposal that we intend to send to your Chamber. We also need to take some steps to do this. The advice of the advisory board also offers a number of real points of departure for further elaboration of the structural approach and the follow-up steps of the cabinet. I'm gonna have to take a good look at that. As I have just said, I will also inform your Chamber on these various issues in the coming period, for example in monitoring and adjusting. This includes the spatial implications of the structural approach, but also a package of measures. So this is not the last thing we are going to say about the Remkes Committee. I also intend to draw up another cabinet response to the Hordijk Committee. I would therefore suggest that I go further into what was said in the Remkes Committee's report when I send that letter to the Chamber so that you can have a more comprehensive overview of the issues we are dealing with. At the same time, I would like to stress that there are a number of very fundamental choices in it. These are choices that really go far beyond a structural approach for the moment, for example the choice that the Empire should impose on the province's objectives. That really almost affects our constitutional relations, in which the province is its own administrative layer and I am not just empowered to impose the province's goals. I sometimes have this discussion with Mr De Groot. If I were to say that I am going to take over this in its entirety, I would still have a job to do, because then I really need to completely review the state-law relationship, or make a completely different approach to the policy and also to the relations between the Empire and the province. So there are elements in it that I am not going to say in advance that I can or will do so, because there are quite a few consequences attached to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u30	If you get a piece of advice, you'll get some of that, but I think that should be shared with the Chamber. In my opinion, Chapter 9 contains the recommendations of 156. Will the Minister give an appreciation of the report as it has been formulated in conjunction with it? But does she also want to give an appreciation of the recommendations? Sometimes you can say very well-reasonedly why you don't like a recommendation. But I think that justice should simply be done to the Remkes Committee and the people who have been active in it. Furthermore, I believe that the government's consideration of whether or not to adopt the opinion and recommendations should be clear to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u31	As has already been said, I would like to draw your attention to a further appreciation of the Remkes Committee's report. This was really a first reaction to the main thrust of what was in it and what we thought was important to get on with. I'll come back to the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u32	The Minister has already referred to the question I asked about the prohibition on deterioration. Thank you for that. But her answer doesn't reassure. The Minister says: with the package that is now in place, the cabinet is convinced that it is going the way to prevent deterioration. That is not the same as: we know that there is a prohibition on deterioration and we are sticking to it. That is my question: is she actually going to comply with the prohibition on deterioration? In fact, the Minister has no choice but to say yes to that. Can she therefore acknowledge that precisely what the Remkes Committee has come up with and what has been proposed several times from the Chamber by my party and GroenLinks, namely a 50% reduction in ten years, is actually reasonable in relation to the situation that has arisen? In fact, nitrogen emissions should not be so high at the moment, because we are violating the prohibition on deterioration. But because you know you can't buy out all the farmers overnight, a ten-year period has been chosen to build that reasonableness into it. Even that's where the cabinet's gonna be. I don't understand. Can the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u33	We are bound to fight the deterioration of nature. We do this in two ways, and that is also in the package. On the one hand, that's the nitrogen reduction, on the other hand, that's the improvement of nature. I'm not just saying that. That's what the PBL says. That says: you don't just have to focus on nitrogen, you have to focus on the total state of nature, and there are more elements in that than just nitrogen, which you have to work with. That is also what the cabinet has presented. All the steps, all the investments we make are aimed at improving nature. So also the nitrogen reduction... it's not just about nitrogen.... has a direct effect on an improvement of nature. Investment in nature has a direct impact on the improvement of nature's quality. So all the steps we are taking now lead to an improvement in the quality of nature and thus not to a deterioration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u34	It is very serious if the Minister really thinks that this is the case. Nature goes backwards today and tomorrow and as long as the nitrogen deposition is higher than what a nature reserve can have. If the deposition that nature can have is 10 and the cabinet sits at 100 and it wants to remove 20, then the deterioration of nature is still 70, and that is forbidden, that is forbidden. So it's not like there's a basic condition that the cabinet has already reached, where it still has a few things to improve. No, there is a basic condition that is prohibited and therefore the cabinet must present an approach that is certain that in the not too long term it will no longer break the prohibition of deterioration. This is the case law of the Council of State: there must be no deterioration in any area in the Natura 2000 sites, not even at the edges, if you let go of that hexagonal system. Is the Minister going to take the case law on the prohibition of deterioration to the processing of Remkes and Hordijk's advice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u35	Mrs. Ouwehand only focuses on nitrogen. I have always said that it is the coherence of things: it is both the reduction of nitrogen and the equal investment in the improvement of nature. This way you make a complete package to make sure that nature improves step by step, rather than deteriorate. The Remkes Committee mentioned a year in which so much of nitrogen emissions had to be reduced. She is not talking about investments in nature, but she really focuses on nitrogen emissions, not even on deposition, but really on emissions. There is also a translation, but I will not go into the technique too much. She mentions a year, which for the rest is not the result of the Birds and Habitats Directives. That's a choice. It's okay. A consultative commission has been held to do so, just as well as the cabinet can make a choice in the direction it envisages. I would also like to stress that we will not stop in 2030. We won't be ready by 2030. Only, we are already setting out a path to 2030. We have also had discussions on this with experts who say that it is very difficult to estimate what you can reasonably say about the impact of the deposition reduction of the measures you are taking now for the period after 2030. You'll have to monitor that continuously with some kind of roof tile construction. That's exactly what the Cabinet does. In this way, we are going to watch every time: how are we on that path and should we not decide at some point, not just in 2030, but before that, what will be our next ambition for the years after 2030? In this way we continue on the path to the improvement of nature. We're not stopping in 2030.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u36	The Minister is not giving a clear answer to my question. I want to hear from her that she knows all the case law and everything we know about what you have to do to stop violating that statute of limitations... Or at least, as long as you're still in breach, I want to know what you've been held to. You can't just flatten those ten years. That has to do with this. Is she gonna take that? Does she now say to the Chamber: sorry, that note last night might have been a little short, but I still come up with an extensive appreciation and I also come up with an appreciation from the Hordijk Committee? This is really important. The Minister talks about investments in nature. So far, the money that comes in is the money that was collected in the period Rutte I and is about cleaning up the mess that has arisen. That's not an improvement. If you do not reduce enough nitrogen, the same damage will happen again. I miss those insights with the Minister. If they are not processed, then it remains with a repetition of the errors of the PAS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Ouwehand pretends that it is not so much what we are doing. We have 3 billion in additional investments for nature. We have 2 billion... If you add everything together, including what we've already released this year, you'll get at 6 billion for the overall approach. The reduction of nitrogen is also an improvement of nature. It may be that Mrs Ouwehand thinks it is too little; that may be. That is the debate we are having here, but it is pretending that this package is nothing and that we are not taking any steps forward, and that is simply not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Futselaar and then Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u39	I have to support Mrs Ouwehand here, because this is something very fundamental. The Minister says that the Birds and Habitats Directives have no mandatory deadline. That is the case when it comes to the obligation to improve and restore nature. But we are not talking about the improvement and restoration of nature in this nitrogen debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u40	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u41	... we're talking about countering the further deterioration. That's what the Council of State keeps pointing out. The policy does not prevent this deterioration in any way. Every time we come up with a bill that doesn't focus on it, it threatens to go to court again. That is the essence of the problem. The date Remkes gives is mild. It's mild. Remkes should say: it should be over now with that deterioration. Anyway, it has to be feasible. That's the problem with Remkes' date. It is not too ambitious; it is actually far too unambitious. Anyway, the feasibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u42	I really do not believe that we are making any improvements in the state of nature. When I look at what the Remkes committee says... Again, she has the authority to do so. She may find: this is a path that we recommend. I can see that people also say that by 2040 it must be everywhere below the critical deposition value. That is also one of the thesis of the Remkes Committee. That is a good goal, but you are also largely dependent on what is happening abroad. It is not the case that in 2040 I can impose on Germany, Belgium or anyone else abroad activities that they have to stop doing so because it affects us in our objective of critical deposition value in nature areas. Those are also things I have to relate to. But I really reject that this is a package that only contributes to a deterioration of nature. That's not true. It leads to an improvement of nature, step by step and on a path that also takes into account the economic and social effects. We are looking at what is allowed in the Birds and Habitats Directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u43	I am not saying that this package will lead to deterioration. I say that this package is not enough to stop the deterioration that is going on. In the end, that is where the Council of State is going, unfortunately, really technically at hexagonal level, of "what is the situation here?" In the final analysis, permit testing will be carried out again. And that is how we make ourselves vulnerable if we do not seriously do something about it. I do not think that the package that the cabinet is putting here is enough, not only for all my natural ambitions, but also to make this legally sustainable, just separate from the left and right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u44	Here we are going to add one more step. This package looks at the total nitrogen blanket. So we go down all over the Netherlands with the nitrogen. This does not mean that there has already been sufficient improvement in each nature reserve in order to be able to issue permits. I share that with Mr Futselaar. That is why we also have the area-based approach. The moment you want to issue a permit in an area, you benefit from what we are doing nationwide to lower that blanket. But if you live next door to a nature reserve that is already really overloaded, then more will have to be done to ensure that that permit can be issued. I share that with Mr Futselaar. That's what we do in the package. Hence the combination of the blanket and the area-oriented approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr Bishop, and then Mrs Bromet. No? Then Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u46	I'd like to hang on the other side of the boat for a little while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u47	Surprising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u48	We can pretend that it is never enough, but we must realise that the agricultural policy as we know it now is the result of 50 years of agricultural policy. Does the Minister not agree with me that making a change in ten years is not a real option unless we are prepared to take damage to businesses, families and society for granted? Let me rephrase the question: has the Minister taken into account in the choices made by the cabinet what this means for the families and the companies involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u49	Sure. I have just explained that we have set out an objective and a path towards it on the basis of what is needed to improve nature and on the other hand how we can take account of the social, economic and family situation. As I said earlier, this is also permitted in the Birds and Habitats Directives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u50	I don't get this. In ten years' time, you can't make this change without causing damage, can you? We have to face up to the fact that, from about 1970 onwards, the whole of society, European policy and the Dutch agricultural policy, with the Mansholt Plan, which has been the starting point, has been constantly focused on intensifying agricultural production in this way? Then it wouldn't be real to make some kind of change in ten years, which would make things a little bit different? This change must be made, but should we not simply face the fact that it really costs a generation, which is too early even 2040 and that we must set the target at 2050? Then you have a generation that can make that change. Then you can change that policy without collateral damage. Does the Minister agree with me? If, apart from all kinds of shared interests, she looks at what is wise policy, does she agree that, strategically speaking, we should work towards 2050?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u51	I can tell you from what Mr Bishop said that he wants me to respond to the path proposed by the Remkes Committee. The cabinet has proposed its own path. We're not stopping at 2030. We have now outlined a path towards 2030, which we know will take place after that. It is therefore not the case that we are now doing the whole task in ten years' time, and we are also going to stop doing so. This is a long-term trajectory. I agree with Mr Bishop that we are not finished in ten years. We really have to take a lot of steps afterwards, but this is precisely where the cabinet made this weighting: what is the basis of support, but what is needed to protect nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u52	The third question, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u53	I would like to see the Minister explaining how the social impact on the sector has been taken into account in the decision-making process. I can't get that out of the pieces. How did the socio-economic and social consequences have a place in the considerations made by the cabinet? I'd appreciate it if the Minister could report that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u54	I think that is simply the total responsibility of the government's measures. But I also mention, for example, the fact that when farms stop, let me just say this: by analogy with what we have done in pig farming, there is a warm clean-up. So it's not like we're just cutting things off. If companies want to stop themselves, we also help them stop. For cases where things have to be different, for example because you go to another form of agriculture, we also have a conversion fund. There are also resources to assist companies in doing so. If house adjustments are to be made, we also draw money to make that possible. The potential effects on, in this case, agriculture have therefore been taken into account on all these elements. This means that we also have an eye for the impact on these families and also for the question of whether they can experience it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u55	A fourth question? No. I see Mr Graus in the public gallery!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u56	I'm in suspension for a moment, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u57	Okay, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u58	He has a better overview of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u59	Exactly, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u60	I saw it, too. I thought, "Something's going wrong." I hear the Minister say: 3 billion for the restoration of nature is really a lot; that is really not little. I would like to support previous speakers, Moorlag and Ouwehand, because this is not yet a recovery. This is really reducing deterioration. Has the Minister also taken note of De Nederlandsche Bank's and the PBL's investigation, in which they conclude today that the newspaper says that 510 billion will evaporate if the bees stop pollinating? Does the Minister recognise that restoring nature, making nature more robust, is vital for society, but also for a sustainable economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u61	That's what I started my contribution with. Nature must be protected because it has intrinsic value in itself, but also because it is necessary for all of us to continue to do what we do and also, especially in this dossier, because it makes room for economic development. Because when it comes to licensing, we must be sure that nature does not deteriorate. So I share that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u62	But then the Minister can't say with dry eyes that 3 billion for nature is a lot? Indeed, we are far from being at the point of nature restoration. We're not back on the investments in nature before Bleker broke them down. Bleker has drawn a line by connecting nature reserves. He has made a line by protecting nature. We're far from getting back to that point. Every time we do damage to nature again, we can add a little money, but it continues to deteriorate on balance. We're gonna need more money. Does the Minister recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u63	It's been a while since I said that. I don't think 3 billion is too little. Anyway, we can have a difference of opinion on that. I have just indicated that the resources we put into the reduction of nitrogen also contribute to the improvement of nature. So it's a total package, which almost adds up to 6 billion. I don't think that's "little money." But if Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has any ideas as to where she would like to get more money to do so here, then I look forward to her amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u64	Of course, I'm not saying that 3 billion is little.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u65	That's what you just said: "a little."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u66	I'm saying it's too little to restore nature. I say that De Nederlandsche Bank, together with the Planning Bureau for the Environment, says in the newspaper today that their research shows that there will soon be 510 billion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That will happen if the Minister does not take measures to restore nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u67	And that's why we have this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u68	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u69	Yeah, I was still working on the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u71	Mr Moorlag asked: do you think this package is Council of State proof? We made adjustments yesterday, as I said, also in making the package more legally robust. Of course, I am going to look with great interest at what the Council of State says about this, because what the Council is saying in its opinion on this is very important to us. I have just responded to the appreciation of the Remkes Committee and to how we proceed with this. Then I have had Mr Moorlag's questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u72	The Council of State has a multiple task, including an advisory role. I wasn't so keen on that when I asked if this is a State-proof Council. I am concerned about whether this package is going to ensure that permits are held by the Council of State. 'Cause I'm really worried about housing. There are 75,000 homes to be built every year. Priority must be given to this. For example, I read about the problem with the Veluwe: the province of Gelderland provides that problems will continue to occur in a wide area around Gelderland. Can the Minister guarantee that there will be permit space for those 75,000 homes a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u73	The law that I am sending to the Chamber is one thing, namely that it must be legally sustainable. That's what the Council of State's gonna review if I send a bill there. That is a very important point of reference for me too. I share Mr Moorlag's view that we have nothing to gain from a system which will soon lead to a ban on licences or a lack of sustainability, as was shown by the PAS. Moreover, there is a very interesting policy reconstruction in Mr Remkes' report, in which we have seen that Mr Moorlag's party has some traces in it, so to speak. I don't want that anymore. So on that point, I take the Council of State extremely seriously, as I always take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u74	That policy review also states that the Council of State's statement that the system of the PAS is not rejected, but that we are placing too much of a mortgage on the future in effect. I am concerned that there is simply a clear commitment, a guarantee, that this housing is going to start. Those at least 75,000 homes a year should just be there. Does the Minister put her hand in the fire that the building applications, the permits, can remain in the Administrative Court Department of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u75	Everything we do must ensure that the licences issued are valid. The Remkes Committee is making a very concrete proposal for the construction sector too: the introduction of a threshold for construction, which must also be secured by measures, which must also be laid down. That is also exactly the system of the bill. The difference with the PAS is that, in this bill, we are not only naming these measures but now also laying down them legally. So we also say "these are the goals that need to be met" because otherwise we don't have that space for that authorisation. At the moment when those goals are not met in that monitoring system, it needs to be adjusted, because you have to get there, to the left or to the right. That's the bond. It's a sure thing. On this basis, licences may be issued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u76	Does the Minister recognise that immigration and population growth have an impact on nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u77	I have also heard this question from Mr Baudet when he spoke. I'm not gonna relate people to nitrogen. If we go down that road, we will really have a debate that, in my opinion, does not contribute to the solution of this problem. I would like to give the following to Mr Baudet, also in relation to what he has just said. I've learned that in this house, words matter. Words have an impact. Words have effect. I always take it out on myself. For me, it's important that I know, realize, that what I'm saying isn't very meaningless, quite the contrary. I think that should just apply to everyone in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u78	I am very aware of that. That is why I did not take back the fact that I referred to the Minister as an assassin of the agricultural sector. The answer I'm getting is not satisfactory. We're not going to associate people with nitrogen, but the total population of demographics; how many people live in the Netherlands.. has a direct impact on the amount of nitrogen we emit. This cabinet has set an immigration record year after year, and projections are that over the next ten years there will be a net increase of 1 million people, 1 million people from Africa, the Middle East and so on, apart from all the other problems that this entails. That just has a huge impact on housing, on the amount of cars, on the food we have to produce, on the energy we need, on the power, on all things, so on total nitrogen emissions. You can't deny that, can you? Then you can't start acting a little morally and say, "I'm not going to be human lives..." That's not the point at all. The point is this. Immigration is a spearhead of this cabinet. The VVD, the CDA and the Christian Union want more people to go to the Netherlands. The Marrakesh Immigration Pact has been signed. Immigration is an important value of this cabinet. This has a direct impact on nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u79	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u80	So if you believe that nitrogen is a problem, then you must also find immigration a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u81	Mr. Chairman. I don't hear another question. I've already given my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u82	Well, I haven't heard an answer at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u83	Not an answer that pleases you. But that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u84	But wait a minute. So you don't want to acknowledge the simple fact... I mean, you can then hang another value on it. You can say: I think it is more important that the Netherlands africanize than that we save the farmers. You might find that. The africanisation of the Netherlands, more Islam in the Netherlands, is more important than more farmers: that can be a consideration. But you can't deny that immigration causes more nitrogen emissions, and that, if you think there is a certain limit to the amount of nitrogen we emit, it has to come from one or the other. That's a simple fact, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u85	I told you I'm not gonna relate people to nitrogen emissions. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u86	One more time, then. Does the Minister recognise that the fact that 17 million people live in the Netherlands results in a certain amount of nitrogen emissions, and that if 18 million people were to live in the Netherlands, the total nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands would be higher?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u87	We have put together a whole package of measures to reduce nitrogen. We can do that with the amount of people we have now, and with the amount of people we can have in the future. We have presented measures to reduce nitrogen. They've been passed on, and they're having an effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u88	As a follow-up to this: in my term, I drew attention to this in an interruption to Mr Harbers. It is true that, at the request of the VVD, research would be carried out into demographics, demographic expectations and the impact on our country of mass immigration. To alleviate Mr Baudet's question a little bit: he is right that there is an impact of a country's demographics and what space and nitrogen space you need. We have to think about that as a country. The VVD is the party that requested it. A kind of research into the impact of the demographics of the Netherlands would be in preparation. So what's the status of that investigation, and has the Minister taken note of it? Of course, that is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u89	The cabinet has a lot of cases under investigation. I do not have the overall overview of what investigations are being prepared and where they are. It is true that there is a need to talk in this Chamber about demographics and immigration. That's what happens here all the time. On the sidelines, I sometimes see that happens. All right. With regard to the direct relationship between immigration and the problem of nitrogen in this Chamber, we used to have more nitrogen emissions and fewer inhabitants. If you wanted to make that relationship, I certainly wouldn't want to make that connection that way. There is no question of discussing demographics and immigration. You have to, and that's what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u90	As the Minister put it, I can agree with her. Maybe that relationship's too sharp. But it's just important to think about the big impact of space use in the Netherlands, the number of people and transport movements, and you name it. I understand now that the government is not thinking about this; not in this context, but apparently that whole investigation has not yet been carried out. When was that requested? That was a year and a half ago. The PVV has been calling for years to think about whether we want to go to 18 or 19 million inhabitants in the Netherlands. Are you sure that's smart? We are talking about billions wasted and entrepreneurs who are being bullied away to other countries, while apparently not even thinking about this. I find that rather shocking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u91	I did not say that there was no reflection on demography and its consequences. Just allow me not to deal with all the subjects of this cabinet. I must say that this dossier already covers a great many subjects. However, that is separate from this issue of the nitrogen approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u92	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u93	Very good. The SGP asked what I will do with the recent report presented by the WUR on the spatial approach to the nitrogen problem. It also presents a roadmap. That roadmap may be a helpful tool, including in the analysis of the tasks at field level. I will discuss with the provinces how the report of the WUR can be used in the design of the area-oriented approach. To Mr Futselaar, I have just spoken about the Remkes report and its ambition in an interrupting debate. So I've already taken that into account in an interruption. On what I am going to do with the recommendations, you will receive a further appreciation. I said that on a question from Mr Moorlag. Mrs Dik-Faber asks how we are going to achieve the aims of the consultative committee and what measures we are going to take. As has been said, we have now presented a nitrogen reduction path up to 2030, with the objectives set. We'll monitor that. On our way to the targets, we're gonna reset the moment we don't make it. At the same time, we have made natural resources available to increase the quality of nature. We are also looking at issues that are mentioned in the report and that we are already thinking about in other places, such as manure policy. I shall come back to that in a little bit more detail, because there were some specific questions about that. Last night we also indicated how we deal with the building site that was mentioned in it. For example, the Remkes Committee also says: look at the lease policy. Of course, that's what we're doing. So a lot of subjects are already being picked up in other places. But again, I will also give a broader overview of this at the time of the appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u94	Where are you on this first part? 'Cause you still have a few topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u95	I have a few more questions to deal with, and then I finished this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u96	Probably want to interrupt about your question, Mr Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u97	No, it was about the fact that the Minister just said: to other questions about the Remkes report we will return to the appreciation. That's a little too easy for me. Because what happened last night is that we received a letter in which some of the opinions contained in Remkes' report were embraced or taken over, but not many. There is, of course, a choice, a consideration. So I am curious: why, for example, are we not going to take source measures other than voluntary? Why don't we connect nature reserves? Why don't we stop subsidising biomass? Those are fundamental questions. And if the cabinet makes a choice, like "we'll take over this one," then I'd like to know what the trade-off has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u98	I understand that question. It is not intended to give a complete overview of all the issues in the Remkes report and how we deal with them. Again, we just need a little more time for that. I would also like to say that we are already working on a number of points. You are also on the Committee on Agriculture and we are discussing manure policy with each other. These are also themes that run and the report then provides valuable insights to involve them. I believe that last week there was a discussion with Mr Wiebes about how we deal with biomass. So it's not that it just lies with me to say on all these points: we deal with this and not with it. It is a total, for which the entire cabinet stands at the bar. The cabinet feels the same way. Last night we wanted to clarify a number of things in the direction of this debate. In particular, we did so in order to ensure that we can really make a significant step in building, to ensure that it can be pulled away. The aim is also to recognise that it is important to have a firm legal guarantee of this, so that it is also more likely to be implemented. That is why we have taken the steps to do so at the moment. That does not mean that we do nothing with all these other things or that, if we do not, we will also explain why we do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u99	Then I'll say something about this, finalizing. The practical consequence is of course simply that the choices made in the previous letter in April are currently being incorporated into a law. We are going to have them in the summer, and we may have to deal with them in writing. However, I would like to have a debate on the final appreciation of the Remkes report before I take a decision on a possible law resulting from the decisions taken by the cabinet. So I'm a little concerned with the order of how to come to a balanced judgment later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u100	That seems to me to be a question which the Chamber itself has to answer. I'm not talking about the order of the debates. I have an answer for Mrs Dik-Faber to the question about the advisory group. She's talking about the layout of the rural area. That is an important issue for her. She says, "There's a much bigger question behind that." Shouldn't that be looked at more closely? That's how I interpret the question. The cabinet recognises that in the rural area, a number of very important spatial challenges will come together in the coming years. They sometimes almost come together in Mrs Dik-Faber, on energy, on agriculture, on water, on about all the subjects that play in the rural area. That is why the cabinet has taken the initiative to launch the national programme for the rural area in cooperation with the co-governments. That's part of the NOVI. We could also go into that further into what is needed for that. This is even more the case with the rural area, but steps are already being taken there. That is, I think, an important issue, also in the total number of tasks that lie ahead, not only with regard to nitrogen, but also with regard to energy, water and housing. There are a lot of functions that come together in that rural area and that we need to unite in some way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u101	That last one's gonna be quite a job indeed. It's fighting for space. I would like to go back to the answer to my previous question. The Remkes Committee has delivered an opinion. In fact, the committee has said that the objective should be much higher, twice as high, while the committee has not further substantiated it. Nor do we know exactly what measures would be appropriate. If we have to do something like this, I can imagine that we will use the next period to identify what this does in the social and economic fields and what the profits are for nature. Is this also a thought the Minister has?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u102	The cabinet has, of course, put together its own package of measures. The cabinet also had this passed on, so that it could be held accountable for the choices made by the cabinet. As has already been said, we will not be there until 2030. After that, more will be needed to further reduce that nitrogen. For example, there is also a exploration of standards, in which we see what else can be done. It would be a good idea to think further about what would be the possibility at all to gain more insight into what plans might contribute to this with regard to nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u103	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u104	Yes. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks if I recognise that we are in an unsustainable situation. We know that there is a great task to strengthen nature. That is why we have started to do this. We are also doing this to make economic activities possible again. It is precisely in order to get out of this situation that we have also laid down the structural package here. Then I have a few more questions about the province. I'm gonna take care of that in this block. Mr De Groot asks how I can reach verifiable agreements with the province. As I have just said, the Empire and the Province each have their own responsibility and competence in this approach. This is also a determining factor in the mode of control, if you would call it that. In July, I will make administrative agreements with the co-governments on how we see cooperation in the context of nature and for the area-based approach and how we can make it work effectively. So we will also make administrative agreements on nature about what we are going to do with each other and who is responsible for what. Do you want me to finish the block on the county? There are two more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u106	Several Members, including Mr De Groot, have asked if I am prepared to differentiate in money per province. The Veluwe was regularly mentioned. Sounds like the province of Gelderland has provided a good lobby in this Chamber. In any case, it is differentiated by province. This becomes dependent on the task a province has. In one province this task is somewhat greater than in the other province. That is why I want to make agreements with the provinces, where we really need to see what is needed in which area and what this means for each party. This does not mean that we are going to set targets for each province. That's also a little bit on the Remkes committee. I'm not authorized to impose targets on the provinces. I do have the authority to make administrative agreements with them, which we can hold to each other. If the national measures do not provide sufficient nitrogen reduction to achieve a favourable state of conservation of Natura 2000 sites in the province, then the provinces and possibly other authorities will have to take additional measures. Of course, we continue to monitor with each other and determine whether this path is going in the right direction. We must therefore consider whether additional measures may be needed in these areas. Then there's the last question. Mr Harbers asked: is the regional approach also taking into account the differences between the provinces? Yes, it is of course also up to the provinces themselves to see how the area-based approach should be designed in that area. This may depend on the activities in that area. This may also vary by location in the province. We are, of course, always in conversation with the provinces to make this as clear and transparent as possible for those who live in that area and participate in that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u107	I have Mr De Groot first and then Mr Geurts. I would also like to know whether the Minister is going to deal with the other subjects in this way. We have been working on one subject for one hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u108	This was also the main issue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u109	Okay, then I have a bit of a picture of how it goes. Let me now turn to Mr De Groot and Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u110	For D66 it is really a concern how the province deals with this package. The Minister has explained what administrative relations are. We have to deal with that and the Minister has to deal with it. Only now, in the law binding on the Member State of the Netherlands, are we going towards a result obligation. Doesn't that have to have consequences for the provinces? So I am still looking for a way, because not everyone has an equal role in these administrative arrangements. It is the Minister of LNV who ultimately has to answer to Brussels about the state of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u111	There are two things that are mixed up here. Let me put it this way. The result obligation will monitor the package that we are going to achieve in terms of nitrogen reduction. This is about the blanket, as I call it. I stand at the bar to realize the blanket, and that is why we can also include this obligation to achieve results. It may mean that it sometimes gets its effect in the regions. The purchase or conversion of a farm has, of course, a close connection with how it is designed in the provinces. That's why we hang out here all the time together. In addition, we have a program nature. As far as nature is concerned, we have to make agreements with each other on how we deal with the money we make available and how it is invested. There was just a question as to whether this is differentiated by province. These are all administrative agreements that we make with each other, and we also continue to monitor how that goes. When that does not go well, I am probably not the only one who will have a problem with it towards the provinces, but also fellow governments. The whole problem of nitrogen is not limited to provincial boundaries. Other provinces also suffer or benefit from it when it works. This administrative consultation is therefore incredibly important in order to keep each other focused and to be able to adjust in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u112	I will also pass on the compliments to the province of Gelderland and the delegates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u113	I've heard them come all the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u114	I hope that the Minister will also hold this in her head, this interest of many for the whole of the Netherlands. That is not my question, however. I have argued in my contribution that there are a lot of concerns and concerns among farmers about keeping their farms legally. Fertilising and grazing are part of that. There are also formal non-licensing situations in other sectors. My specific and brief question is as follows. When is there the solution for keeping projects legal or legalization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u115	That is the point of the reports, as we always call them. These are things that did not need a permit at first, but had to be reported to ensure that an activity was allowed to continue. The cabinet has indicated that we want to legalise these reports. This month, those who have notified will receive a letter asking whether that activity still exists and whether there is still a formalisation to be carried out, including the permit. This is meant to have the check to make sure we're still at the bar with each other. If we have that in view, we can also look very closely at what is needed to legalize the report. Depending on how much we get in and how complex that is, we will see in the summer or after summer exactly what the deposition is at hexagon level that we have to mitigate or make up for in order to make sure that that notification is also legalized. This month they receive a letter to provide additional information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u116	That is clear in itself, but they still have no certainty as to how their company's status actually becomes. The unrest will not be removed. Many of these farms are still being asked for in the future. It's hard when you're in a very uncertain situation. So I would really like to urge the Minister to clarify this very quickly. Maybe I can paint it with another example. At the moment, I see a lot of unrest in pig farming, among the people who have signed up for the warm clean-up. The Minister has rightly informed the Chamber of how many companies, who do, who do not, but there is now a great deal of uncertainty about whether or not they are covered. I take this with me in this way, to urge the Minister, but I assume that it is being worked hard: give those people certainty, because uncertainty is so killing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u117	Yes, that letter also states that the cabinet has declared that we want to legalise these reports. That is something in itself which lays down that certainty. A number of process steps are also needed to ensure that we can fully shape that. This has been said by the cabinet and we are at the point of doing so and we are going to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u118	I would like to add one point. That letter might help. I think it would be a good idea to agree with financiers, think of Rabobank, on the status of this letter, in order to prevent funding from being withdrawn. There's another problem I hear back in the field. The Empire has 11 mole in front of those reports. Provinces are gonna take stock of that, and then it's coming from that 11 mole. Conversely, the Empire seems to say to provinces that they are looking at what they are getting out of the area-based approach. And then the provinces say that it will be ready next year at the earliest. All this can be done between governments, but I believe that all governments in the Netherlands should agree to address this problem as quickly as possible. It doesn't fit to look again and again who has a mole of nitrogen left for this group of reports. Can the Minister promise that she will agree with the co-governments to put this at the top of the agenda, so that these thousands of cases are not the victims of this back and forth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u119	3,300 cases. Yes, I will. That's what I'm discussing with the provinces. If the impression is that this will cause delay or uncertainty, then we should not have that. I will stress this again with the provinces next time I talk about this. I also think it is a good idea to discuss this with the financiers, at least with the banks. This should not be an obstacle in itself. I cannot see what other factors are there when an investment is requested, but this should not be an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u120	Sometimes I think we're going down in this country with rules, regulation and the courtroom. It seems as if more and more, sometimes subsidised clubs go to court and then get their way. Now the Minister is going to make a law that obliges us to reduce nitrogen. What I am afraid of now, and I ask the Minister if she has thought about it, is whether this will make the natural and environmental fundamentalists even stronger at every licence application, such as from Schiphol for a few extra aircraft, or from a farmer who wants to build a barn. All these opponents, it is a small group, but very fierce and sometimes also subsidised with taxpayers' money, will soon go with the law in hand to the judge and constantly frustrate everything. Has the Minister considered that we are even more moving in the direction of some sort of legal downfall for ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u121	The situation at the moment is that there can be absolutely nothing, so we're actually coming from zero. With this law, we are trying to provide certainty on the one hand as to what this improvement of nature is going to be like. At the same time, this gives legal clarity for authorisation. At the moment nothing can be done, although a number of things can be done again, by measures taken by the cabinet, but the whole system of licensing was legally right. On the contrary, what we are doing now gives more clarity about this authorisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u122	That sounds wonderful: nothing can be done now, but anything can be done abroad. Apparently, not all these clubs went to court there. How can that be a mystery to me? It seems as if the Netherlands has a patent on opponents, natural fundamentalists, who are right in that way. Why wouldn't you be able to do anything? Because the rules put us in that situation. Has the Minister thought about whether that law doesn't make us vulnerable? That law doesn't in itself give any certainty at all. The law only guarantees that if we don't make it, they'll get right back to the judge. If it is not feasible, everyone can go back to shutting down all kinds of projects with the law in hand. Is that true or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u123	At the moment when there is a law that is not legally sustainable, we are not going to get anywhere in the entire licensing process. That's where the certainty is needed. You also have to show that you can provide that security, for example for all those houses that need to be built, so that all those companies that want to go through know that they have a permit that lasts, because there is a guarantee behind it. That is why the cabinet has taken care of this. We want, for example, to be able to build all these houses. In order to make this possible, we must also ensure that this security is provided. That's what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u125	Yes. I come to the next block, the block of nature. We have, of course, already exchanged views on this, but there are still a number of specific questions. Mr Geurts asks whether I share the view that hydrology is or becomes a greater problem than nitrogen. He was mainly talking about the sandy soils. If so, what are we going to do with the provinces? The hydrological measures are part of the Nature programme. Dehydration is a major problem in certain areas. I think we've seen that again in the last few weeks. In some places it is now also a bigger problem than nitrogen only, but it is difficult to say that in general. That really depends on which place in the Netherlands it is. The area-by-area breakdown follows from the regional analyses carried out by the provinces. In any case, it is clear that hydrological measures are very effective both in tackling dehydration and in combating the effects of nitrogen. So we're trying to make a profit on two sides. I don't think we should lose sight of that. Wherever it's possible, it has to be integral. That is also part of the Nature programme that Rijk and provinces are now drawing up. I have another question from Mr Geurts. Do I need to...? He also asked me how I can make sure that the natural recovery money is going to have a quick effect. The nature restoration measures are already being implemented. For the first 125 million for nature restoration, we have asked the land-use organisations to provide projects for this purpose. They did. The arrangements for carrying out these projects are in preparation. We can get it going pretty fast. With the provinces, I make arrangements to use the 300 million extra funds that we have made available over the years to come. These agreements will include the use of resources where they contribute effectively to the restoration and improvement of nature. That, of course, is also something for the long term. The effect of nature measures is not to reduce sensitivity, but to reduce sufficiently the impact of deposition. That really is a nuance of the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u126	Have you answered all the questions relating to nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u127	No, I have four more questions from other groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u128	Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u129	It also has advantages if you are a spokesperson on several topics that touch each other. I am also a water spokesperson and in this case I ran into this problem about hydrological recovery. I've tried to probe the provinces about what amounts we're talking about. That scared me, though: 0.5 billion. This is necessary in order to bend this in the right direction. Then my question to the Minister is: is she prepared to increase the resources for hydrological recovery with all the sums available? In fact, this whole word and this whole problem are not mentioned in letters of inquiry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u130	It's not mentioned, but that doesn't mean it's not there. I know hydrological measures actually have a place in the Nature package. Well, that's different from one region to another. It really looks at what is needed, what measures you can take and what this means for the environment. All these things you have to weigh up. If you ask me how much money is earmarked for that now, I should look it up. I can let you know in second term. Mr Harbers asks me to carry out the monitoring of Natura 2000 sites quickly. I have already said that the screening will be completed this summer. I will share the results with the Chamber at the end of the summer. Do I, ask Mr Futselaar, not only make nature more robust, but also connect? The exact implementation of the resources we just talked about, the 3 billion, I'm working with the provinces. I just said it at an interruption by Mr Geurts. Part of these agreements may be the purchase of land, which can create essential links between nature reserves, but that also really depends on what is needed in that area to ensure that nature becomes more robust. And that's customization. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks what I am going to do to make the change in nature reserves. This is precisely what the whole package of measures is aimed at. That is also exactly the discussion I have with the provinces to ensure that we can make those natural areas robust and ensure that the quality of those areas improves. That's exactly what we're doing. She also asks how we can make them more robust if we are not finished with nature recovery. It is precisely through restoration measures in and around nature areas that makes it more robust, but also through, for example, the trail of nature-inclusive spatial design. That is also part of the package. Not only do you check whether nature has an effect in the Natura 2000 areas, but you also fit it into all kinds of other factors. Residential building is part of that. I just sent a letter to your room about how you could give more substance to that. That way you don't just look at the areas, but just in its totality at nature in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u131	I have a question about the hydrological measures. I agree with Mr Geurts that drought only makes the problem of nitrogen and the destruction of nature worse. I do wonder on what basis these funds are spent on farmers. For it is the farmers who have ensured low groundwater levels in the water shelves with secure seats. It is farmers who are contributing to global warming. Climate change makes the drought worse. So I think it is fine that we spend money to reduce the drought in nature, but it has to be solved structurally. That means that you cannot continue to compensate farmers for the damage they have done themselves, and then repair it. How does the Minister see that and what are her plans for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u132	We're drawing up a program right now. At first, I mentioned the plans of the land-based organizations. That's 125 million. That is what we have proposals for. This will therefore be done through the field-based organisations. On the other hand, there are structural funds of 3 billion. We agree with the provinces to take measures that are necessary in a particular area. Once we have made further arrangements, I will, of course, inform your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u133	The Minister just answered my question about the change, but that question was about nature-friendly farmers, so emission-free circular agriculture. Remkes actually says: these farmers do not have enough financial instruments to guarantee the change. So there's still some uncertainty as to whether they're gonna be okay with that. I would like to ask the Minister what she is going to do to make that change more secure, because that is extremely important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u134	I share that with Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. That is precisely why the cabinet has announced a conversion fund and we have made money available to help farmers who want to move from an intensive way to, for example, a more extensive way of farming. We have a total of 175 million available for this. I will inform your Chamber of exactly how I intend to shape this conversion fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u135	When will the Chamber be informed about this conversion fund, its explicit conditions and whether that is enough to actually make the change? Because there are a lot of farmers now who want to but can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u136	Sure. I can tell that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is in a hurry. Yeah, I got it, too. I really need to see how fast we can do that, but it won't take months. That's what I'm really trying to do as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u137	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u138	I'll get to the farmhouse. We had just made a little bridge. Mr De Groot asks how I am going to use the package to achieve circular agriculture. We've just had an interruption about that. Agriculture is in full swing. There are farmers who switch to a different business operation. There are also farmers and businesses looking at what they can do with innovations, for example with stable concepts and manure separation, to reduce emissions. There are also farmers who want to stop. It is precisely for all these things that we have taken measures in this package to support all these movements. It is also important that farmers keep perspective. That's not only a task for the government, we've talked about it more often, but also for chain parties. All these links are needed to ensure that a solid income model remains for farmers. Otherwise, they can handle it, but that ends when it doesn't pay off in the end. Our agricultural history has also learned that there really is a capacity to adapt to new circumstances. In the package we have presented, I see that we can take steps on all these issues. This is largely due to the closure of the loops. The Remkes Committee also says a few things about this. Then we're talking manure and feed. Mrs Dik-Faber just mentioned the issue of fertilizer. These are all kinds of things that need to be addressed in all kinds of places, not only at national level but very often also at European level. In all these places, the cabinet is committed, for example, to good land use, because that is the core in which almost everything comes together. The package of measures therefore offers precisely that perspective for farmers. It provides a significant reduction in nitrogen, but also contributes to other important issues such as circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u139	You'll have the floor in a moment, Mr. De Groot. I would like to ask the Minister if she could perhaps answer all the questions relating to agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u140	I just started the farm block. I think I have about eight more questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u141	And all of Mr. De Groot's?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u142	No, we've had De Groot's now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u143	All right, Mr. De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u144	In response to the Minister, I think it would be the challenge of moving gradually, day by day, in all the decisions that the Minister has to take, to make real progress on this circular agriculture. There's a lot of opportunities there. I have one more question in that regard. I get a lot of comments from the biological sector. They were, of course, affected by phosphate legislation and sometimes fall a bit between ship and ship, at least that is the feeling of the biological sector. Some of them, of course, really lead the way. What's their role? How does the Minister see the biological sector in transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u145	We have a very diverse palette of farmers here, with all different ideas on how to do it best. I really think that diversity is the strength of Dutch agriculture. The organic farmers and farmers who are very ahead have now joined forces with each other. They are also an interlocutor of ours. In this way, they can also provide their input and ideas on the steps we all need to take. In this way, we also include these ideas and sounds in policy-making.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u146	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u147	Yes. I have had a number of questions from Members on the transport track and on the many disturbing reports that Members of Parliament have had about this measure. One question was whether it is true that the sector is working on an alternative. It is true that a number of dairy farming organisations have united and are working on an alternative proposal to reduce nitrogen emissions through adjustments in animal feed. That should then replace the regulation of the feed that I intend to regulate. I have already indicated that you have already received those answers in the framework of the preliminaries procedure, namely that the feed measure is not the ideal measure. I'm well aware of that. We are also really looking at how we can ensure that the measure we are taking is sufficient to re-launch the authorisation of housing elsewhere. That was the assignment, and I had to stick to it. In that whole process we are going to look at many options and variants. We've had a lot of conversations about that, too. I can also say that it was not easy to come up with a proposal that met all the questions and requests. On the other hand, therefore, it is not easy to come up with a better proposal. However, I am open to alternatives, because I think it is really important that there is maximum support for a measure. The arrangement itself is not sacred to me. I just need to make sure that the objective is achieved with that measure. For this purpose, a scheme must meet a number of criteria. The measure must be legally tough, i.e. it must be certain that the target nitrogen reduction is actually being achieved. The effect of the measure should also be transparent at hexagon level. If there is to be an alternative, it is also essential that the whole sector should support it, both in words and in practice. I am talking here not only about farmers themselves or about dairy farmers but also about animal feed manufacturers; Mrs Dik-Faber asked for this. The animal feed manufacturers have a very important role to play in this. That is why it is important that they participate and that they too take the responsibility to fulfil their role in this. If that is not the case, I cannot see that there is a credible alternative to legal regulation. Having said that, I welcome an alternative proposal from the sector. This has already been the subject of discussions between representatives of the sector and employees of our ministry. That's still work in progress. We're still working on it. There is still some work to be done and the discussion will continue at the beginning of next week. I will test the outcome against the criteria I have just mentioned: the hardness, the persistence, but also the effect that we have with it. Based on what was now there, I understood that there are still some refinements to be made, and that agreements have been made to pick that up by the parties that have done this to us. I have said that I would like to receive a detailed proposal from the sector before 1 July, on the basis of which I can decide whether it is indeed a good alternative to the legislative regulation of feed intended for May. In the meantime, I shall continue to lay down our own arrangements and we have also had the preliminary procedure here, so that at least the system proposed by the cabinet is in place when it is to be introduced. This is also the subject of the European Commission's notification procedure. But if, as I said, the sector comes up with a plan by 1 July that meets the criteria, I am prepared to replace that plan, if those criteria are met, with what we in the cabinet have proposed. That's the order. I will inform your Chamber whether this is the case and, if so, how we can proceed with it. Mr Bishop said that there is a lot of money for clean-up but that in his opinion there is actually little money for stable and management adjustments, which, according to him, could be much more effective. Why isn't that the other way around? The short answer is: both types of measures are needed. Measures are needed aimed at those farmers who want to move forward, but measures are also needed to help farmers who want to stop. As Mr Bishop himself pointed out, the cabinet has taken a step in this respect in response to the Remkes report, as we also communicated in yesterday's letter. That step implies that there are two tranches of the buy-back scheme. If it turns out that in 2023 innovations result in more nitrogen reduction than buying up or ending, and this is even more cost-effective, then how that second tranche of 250 million will be used will be considered. In this way, we also do justice to what the Remkes Committee's report says, namely that we should always look at exactly what we do with these euros and in which they are effective, including the amount of nitrogen reduction that you achieve with them. We are also clarifying this now, because it is also planned by the PBL and the RIVM and we know that there is a return on this. Then Mr Bishop asks what opportunities I see for voluntary emission reductions. I know that farmers are already trying to reduce emissions. They often do so because it fits well with their business operations and also leads to better results. The farmers who use them are financially supported by the funds available for, among other things, animal feed measures and the use of manure. Farmers are not in themselves charged for the emission reduction they achieve. But if, for example, they invest in other stables or something like that, they have, of course, already achieved that reduction by themselves. Farmers themselves naturally have plans to reduce emissions, which have also been included in the plan, but ultimately it can also benefit a farmer individually if, for example, they want to make adjustments and require a permit. Those were Mr Bishop's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u148	First of all, about the salad. If I am in contact with the field and I hear stories about the consequences of farmers investing on their own initiative in reducing nitrogen, then I find that there is a wrong incentive for this because it is somehow not taken into account in their operations, their environmental permit, nature permit or whatever it is called. I hear the Minister telling a more optimistic story, but I would like to ask her to take a closer look at it and to ensure that the incentive not to do it is absolutely not there either. I'm getting different stories than I'm hearing from the Secretary of State. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u149	I'm just trying to understand the question. Is it about the situation that a farmer needs space within his permit but that is not being honored that he has already reduced the nitrogen? Is that right? Is that the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u150	Yeah, that's one of those situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u151	Okay. Let me put it this way: technically, you should be able to do that, because you just need to be able to determine what is ultimately the space in your permit and what you actually use. If there's room in there, you could still use it. But if that is a problem, then I will see whether it needs to be clarified and what the possibilities are for it. I will have to coordinate this with the provinces, because they are, of course, very often the competent authority that issues the licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u152	Thank you very much. Let me turn to the first point: the use of resources. A choice has been made and everything is arbitrary, but I would say: if the emission reducing measures now promise to yield a higher return than the buy-out, it is still calculated, of course, why not invest in emission reducing measures first? I think it would be a good thing to have another look at it in the next three years in 2023. I think that's very sensible before the second tranche goes out. But I would argue in favour of turning it around, because the effect is likely to be much greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u153	We already have two tracks. We have more, but we are talking here about the buy-back scheme and the subsidy scheme for low-emission stables. That subsidy scheme has already been opened up. At first there is an innovation part, because many of the innovations have not yet been or have not yet been proven. To know what the effect of these innovations is, you will have to demonstrate that first, because otherwise I can never legally make it clear that this innovation has that effect. Mr Bishop has already said it: the supposed task. I need to make sure that's gonna work. The moment you have a termination scheme, you can see the effect of stopping a company on its ammonia deposition and its cost-effectiveness. Just because we need to have more insight into whether innovation arrangements are more effective, we have now said: we are building in a weighing moment that looks at ammonia yield, nitrogen reduction, and cost-effectiveness. These are both things that are taken into account in the question of how to proceed with these resources. But these innovations have to prove themselves first. They are, I think, also a good incentive for the sector. If this is something that one wants to go on with, let's see it. That might help. Mr Harbers and others asked the following question. The Remkes Committee talks about the input/output control of manure. Is that something to take? We have already said in the letter of 24 April that we are exploring to what extent input/output control can contribute to solving the nitrogen problem. First of all, we want to focus on the extensive ground-based companies, because you can make the first steps faster there. We need to make this analysis right, because we also need to ensure that the instrument is sustainable and robust. We've had a system like this before: the MINAS systematiek. It's from before my time, but I see Mr. von Martels recognizes it. It didn't last in Europe at the time. So we have to make sure we have a system that does. So we still have to take a good look at that. The Advisory Committee, the Remkes Committee, goes one step further and also proposes a checkable dust balance for all farms. Many of the rules are EU rules. So I can't just delete it. I mentioned the point of fertilizer for a moment. I believe that Mrs Dik-Faber has also spoken to Commissioner Timmermans about this. As you know, we are very much in favour of using more animal manure as a substitute for fertilizer, but at the moment the rules do not allow it. Then I can remove fertilizer from it, but I cannot allow any other way to use more animal manure to ensure that that soil remains fertile. Of course, you have to avoid that hole. We have tried this so that we can demonstrate to Europe that what we want also works in practice and that we keep up very well with it. These are all steps that are needed to gain more insight into this. But we will also look at this aspect in the context of future manure policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u154	I found it so very interesting what the Advisory Board said. That was actually just the notion: if you do something new, make sure that something really goes off. So if you have new rules, a check-out balance or what was once MINAS, it shouldn't happen to farmers again if: we only get extra stacking, administrative burdens and things we have to report every year. So can I turn it around? The minister says, "I can't just delete every rule." Or let me put it this way: she says "I don't know what I can delete, because some things aren't from the Netherlands." Can I ask her not to rush into something new if that leads to the accumulation of burdens, so that must be quite clearly the trade-off?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u155	Sure, you'd love to. That is also the search for reform of manure policy. Everyone, really everyone, wants to simplify the manure policy, because it is very complex. You must have studied almost higher mathematics sometimes to fully understand what the rules are. You don't want that to increase in complexity. But that means that I must also be able to redeem a number of things in Europe. I have already mentioned an example of animal manure. We have now done a test so that we can demonstrate this in certain areas. In this way, perhaps you could say that out loud, but I have not yet been able to test it with the European Commission, or show whether something is working or not. Very often, that is the lever for further discussion in Europe. Then Mr Harbers asks if I want to make sure that farmers know what the tax and financial consequences are, for example, if they stop their business. That is indeed important. We will also ensure that the relevant information is available. By the way, moving is also an option. That depends very much on the specific circumstances of a farmer. This is reflected in the area-based approach. I can see that there are also real advisers who map the pros and cons, so that a farmer can make an informed choice. But we will also see what further information we can make available. The SP asks if I'm going to make the purchasing policy more focused and less voluntary. The measure for the purchase of livestock farms is voluntary. I'm not gonna get into that either. We are, of course, looking at the efficient use of resources. If the suggestion was that the cabinet would just happen to buy up all kinds of companies that want to quit all over the Netherlands, I would like to make a nuance in that. Of course, we are going to look at the impact of the buy-in on the reduction of the nitrogen deposition on that nitrogen-sensitive nature, and whether livestock farming is eligible for this, because we naturally want to spend every euro well. The magnitude of emissions and the distance to a nitrogen sensitive Natura 2000 site are very important factors in this respect. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about animal feed measures. I think I just explained it. Can we phase out fertilizer faster now? We are now fully engaged in the use of high-quality products from animal manure to replace fertilizers. We are the driving force behind getting things moving in Brussels. I am a little more optimistic than Mrs Dik-Faber on this point. I don't think it's gonna take five years for us to do this. In any case, my commitment is to do so more quickly. The European Joint Research Centre has also recently sent a research report to the European Commission, including an opinion on the criteria that animal manure products should meet in order to replace fertilizer. These criteria are also well in line with the products made in Dutch pilot projects. On that basis, I think that we can also have this discussion in Europe, with the European Commission, very well. I will continue to work for that in order to see if we can actually achieve anything there in the shorter term. I would prefer to be able to take more steps before the end of the year. That's what we're really doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u156	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u157	Almost, Mr. Chairman. What happens when buying up companies? Then what is being done with the available space? Will it be used for nature? The nitrogen reduction of the termination rule, i.e. really the nitrogen element, naturally benefits nature. In the letter of 7 February, I stated that the nitrogen deposition space released from the targeted buy-in will be used in cooperation with the provinces. Part of this will also be used for nature to reduce deposition on Natura 2000 sites. Some will also be used to legalize notifications. What happens to the ground around there? That really is a choice in the area-oriented process. Of course, that also has to do with what questions lie ahead. That could be for nature. That could be for the intensification of agriculture. In some respects, it will also be used, for example, for other purposes, such as housing. That is not to be ruled out either, but this is really happening in that area. It's not like we as Empire are gonna be all over what's happening in every place. With regard to the reduction of nitrogen in the termination scheme, there is also room for wealthy projects and national interests, as we pointed out in the letter of 24 April. Mr President, those were the questions in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u158	Mrs Ouwehand, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u159	The Minister has not answered my question about social acceptance if she continues to steer farmers along that path of technological innovation, air filters, missionary stables and the cow toilet. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u160	I'm sorry, I didn't hear that question as a question, but more like a rhetorical question. I also had the impression that there was some rhetoric in it, but that might be my explanation. The term "innovation" is always rather black and white. Many of the things we have today are the result of innovation. This does not mean that innovation is not accepted in itself; on the contrary. I think that depends very much on what kind of innovation it is and, for example, how it works in practice. Mrs. Ouwehand mentioned the cow bathroom. That's one hell of a term. If that means that we have a good look at how, for example, you can separate the solid and liquid fraction from each other in a stable, so that there is no ammonia, then that is not in advance something that I believe will be nil in social acceptance. On the contrary, it is very much about how you apply this innovation and how it happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u161	The last question, I think, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u162	No, the previous one didn't count, because the Minister hadn't answered my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u163	Well, let's go. Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u164	So I've got two more. It is typical that the Minister does not take this as a question, because she always holds the Chamber for it: it is very sad, though, that politics makes all kinds of demands on farmers; they do their best and then there is still no social acceptance. So I was just wondering how she's gonna see this. Because these are things that could be socially controversial. I don't know if she saw that footage of what that cow toilet is doing. That's no less than disgusting. That was on television: a farmer hits the pubic area of a cow to get her to urinate. Then the urine will be collected. Yeah, then the urine doesn't come together with the manure. Technically, that is a nice divorce, but I very much wonder what this does to the animal and whether society thinks it is a way of dealing with animals. So I want to know again from the Minister how she sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u165	I find "innovation" or "innovations" far too general. How we live, work and live here is also the result of innovations. It may be that some innovations are less accepted in society; I do not deny that. I can also see that there are strong opinions on certain issues. These are all things that we are looking at in a whole process around the innovation trail: what does it get? We have drawn up all kinds of criteria for ranking. We are looking, for example, at fire safety, an important element that often also has to do with support. Meadows are also an important part of this innovation trail. There are all the criteria that we are going to look at, precisely to ensure that social acceptance is there, but also to achieve the goal that we are all pursuing together. I do not now go into 'the one innovation or not', but I recognise that a social basis is an element that is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u166	Last question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u167	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It will be a conclusion and an appeal to the Minister. I conclude here that the Minister makes the objections to innovations a little small. She does acknowledge that they can be there, "but yes, there are also good innovations." That can, if that is her line, but then she should not keep telling the Chamber here every time that we have to feel very sorry for the farmers 'because they are doing their best and stick to everything that politically decides' so those air-washers 'and then there is still criticism of livestock farming'. It is either one, genuinely opting for innovations that are in no way at the expense of the animals or the other. Then you're not gonna hold the room here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u168	You still have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u169	... that the farmers do what politics chooses neatly and that society still criticises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u170	I conclude that Mrs Ouwehand has moved a bit: there can also be good innovations that do have support. So that might be the profit of this debate. Mr. Chairman. Then I get to the point of construction. A lot of questions have been asked about that. That is what we announced yesterday in the letter. The cabinet fully recognises the importance of the construction sector, also in view of the great challenge in the field of housing. We have therefore taken note with interest of the possibility the Advisory Committee sees of setting a threshold for temporary deposition in the construction sector. The cabinet sees it as its responsibility to examine all the possibilities that exist, including those that we previously seemed to have to recognise as "unfeasible." We will therefore examine and develop a threshold for temporary depositions in construction. That threshold is linked to a firm reduction of nitrogen emissions from construction. That means an investment statement for the sector. The Cabinet will examine the possibility of releasing funds and will also examine the possibility of an incentive scheme. In addition, the cabinet is also investigating the introduction of agreements on procurement rules, in order to ensure the reduction for that sector, so that this also gives an advantage in the procurement process once you have implemented that innovation, if you use those cleaner techniques. I think it is important that the Council of State should also take a decision on this, so that we have more certainty about what can be done on that point. We think this is an important route to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u171	In the cabinet's proposal, therefore, the building world must actually create its own nitrogen space by electrifying their equipment. Isn't that just some kind of internal salad?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u172	We have simply accepted the proposal made by the Consultative College under the direction of Mr Remkes. We would like to have that checked on its legal sustainability, because we think it is important to see if we can organise it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u173	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u174	Um, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u175	Well, ask the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u176	We have the system of internal salads. That means that if you want to do something as a farmer, you want to expand, you can reduce nitrogen emissions, and then you can expand. Now it is true that the construction sector would like to have an exemption in order to be able to build. Then the cabinet says: that is possible, as long as the construction sector itself ensures that they create that space in electrification of their equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u177	For the sake of clarity, the Remkes Committee also points the finger at this: the construction sector does not have any permit space. That's the problem. So they can't internalise. Other companies can, because they have licensing space. That's not true of construction. That is why you are looking very specifically at a threshold value in construction, but this threshold has to be substantiated. It is the belief of the Remkes Committee that this can be done. So that's what we'd like to test, because we think that's an interesting idea. For example, you can see how the electrification of building materials can achieve the threshold. The cabinet wants to examine how we can shape that and how we can support it financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u178	A final question. I spoke to the construction industry this week. In 12 weeks the order book will be empty and the first bankruptcies will take place. I hope the fleet will be electrified. I honestly don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u179	It is not the case that a threshold is the only way to facilitate housing projects; on the contrary. That was also the reason for the emergency law before the Chamber at the end of last year, which was also accepted in both chambers of the States-General. For example, the reduction in the speed limit and the transport track provide room for housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u180	I am very much in favour of a temporary threshold for construction, but it must be legally sustainable, as Remkes also says. Remkes literally states: make sufficient space available for temporary emissions of construction projects. That's pretty much the crux. In my opinion, the Council of State also states in its statement that it is not enough to say at a threshold that the sector itself can turn over the space it needs. There'll have to be more. So it is fine if we allow this sector to be sustainable, but that alone is not enough to set its own threshold. So where does the rest of the nitrogen space for the construction sector come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u181	The Remkes Committee's proposal also includes its own proceeds from construction in the threshold. In addition, the Remkes Committee says that you must ensure that it is properly secured. Legal must be hard for you to get that money, too. That is also why the cabinet has chosen to include in this legislative proposal a stronger anchoring of the tasks in their entirety, but also of this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u182	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u183	How many interruptions do I have left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u184	One.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u185	Then I'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u186	Okay, you'll save it. You dropped something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u187	In this context, Mr Geurts asks whether we can largely avoid external netting if there is such a threshold. I think he means external salading in livestock farming. External salading in livestock farming naturally has several goals. That's not just about housing. When you can meet the construction through a threshold, of course, there will be less pressure on external salading elsewhere, for example in livestock farming. Mr Geurts asks if I can give a look at how I intend to shape the threshold for construction. We shall do so along the lines outlined in the consultative board. I think that Mr Harbers has just given a nice summary of this in his speech when he was interrupted. This is therefore a threshold, but also a legal obligation to reduce emissions for construction, to adapt procurement rules, and to provide incentives. Mr Bishop asks how much nitrogen space is needed at all for construction site emissions. It is not possible to say exactly how much space is needed for the construction sector. For example, this really depends on the exact location of the building. From indicative calculations, for example, housing needs an average of 1 mole per hectare per year over the next ten years, throughout the Netherlands. However, in some regions, such as the coastal region, much more is needed to realise this housing. So such an average doesn't say very much at specific locations where space is very limited or actually not present. So we must continue to look at how we are going to shape the overall package with that blanket in investments in nature. Specifically for construction, we are now trying to do so with a threshold. Finally, a question from Mr Futselaar. Can I explain why we still have to figure out everything for a threshold? He said, "You already knew, didn't you?" Didn't he already ask for it? That's right. You'd asked for that before. We have also generally asked the Rade van State for information on the use of a threshold. You have been able to take note of this information. The Council of State saw the necessary limitations in the use of a threshold. In this proposal there is a guarantee of the proceeds, and it is a combination of a safeguard and incentive measure and procurement rules to allow the whole to run. We find this an interesting idea, which we want to include specifically in the law, and with that we also want to have checked by the Council of State. Those were the questions in the building block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u188	I understand that it wasn't just me who started on threshold values in the autumn. The Minister himself did the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u189	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u190	She said: I am going to see if, for example, we can get a threshold for housing and talk to the Council of State about that. Let me be honest, I am a little shocked that the Remkes Committee is apparently coming up with such a revolutionary idea. I'm fine with it if we build it up, and if I can, I'm very happy. But then I wonder if we have not wasted quite a few months again with all the misery in the construction industry, if that possibility was apparently or probably anyway, but we have not seen this thing and I do not want to involve myself in it collectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u191	That in turn is the advantage of an advisory committee, which can give you insights into what you think about yourself. I think that includes the Chamber. It's not like we didn't want the threshold. On the contrary, that is why I asked for information from the Council of State. The Remkes Committee gives such a more detailed explanation of how you could shape those thresholds, that this is a reason for us to include them in the legislative proposal. Mr. Chairman. I've come to a few final questions, but I think I've already dealt with them almost all. There were also some questions about the report by the Hordijk Committee, which I would also like to thank warmly. The time was too short between the presentation of the report and now, this debate, to give an appreciation. We will do so further, so you can also get the answers to the questions that have been asked. For example, Mr Bishop asked: are we going to include the details of the calculation, but also the double standards, as he calls it, in the response to the committee? I will come back to that in that reaction, so we will inform the Chamber about how we look at it. Mr Bishop also asked why 10 to 20 mol of nitrogen reduction were not used because of the corona measures. In the letter of 24 April, I announced that the cabinet was also considering whether this temporary reduction in nitrogen deposition due to the corona crisis could be used for economic and social developments. Of course, this can only be done in the case of activities of a temporary nature. Because you can't use a temporary reduction for a structural activity. And we really need to make sure that nature conservation is also protected. It may allow space for construction site emissions, if they are temporary. If it isn't, it can't be. That's really the limit. Then Mr Harbers asks: what are you going to do with the small depositions, as in industry? Are they also included in the development reserve? In the development reserve, we put in some sort of prioritization. First comes the already mentioned point of the notifications. They're really at the top so we can legalize them. If we can do it in other ways, we'll do it in other ways, but if we have to, we'll get it out of the development reserve. Then we will look at the issues of national importance and at the rich priorities. So depending on whether the industry is of national importance, or national priority, there could be room in it, but that weighting really needs to be made with the competent authorities. There are, of course, other possibilities for industry to make use of. Mr. Harbers also outlined that palette. He also asks how I feel about the wish of the seaports to quickly obtain umbrella permits so that companies can internalise with other companies in the same cluster. I welcome the fact that the companies around the port area are working together and seeking solutions for obtaining these permits. Internal netting is possible if there is one and the same project or location. So it's really on the project and location level. The Empire, that is EZK and we, is talking to seaports about this and we are thinking about solutions in this area. He also asked: what legal instruments do the provinces get to take legally sustainable decisions on external netting? For the sake of clarity, I would like to say that external netting is already possible in general. External salading in livestock farming is not yet open. The provinces are the competent authority and will apply the external netting policy rules and have to adopt decisions on applications with external netting. I am talking to the provinces to see how far they are now and to see what it takes to make this possible. I have the impression that they will soon be able to take more steps to make this possible. But they are the ones who are going to lay down the policy rules. Mr. Chairman. We'd already talked about the PAS detectors, so these were the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u192	Thank you for the answers. As far as the latter is concerned, it is good that the Minister should consult with the provinces, because they indicate to me that in the coming year they will be missing an instrument to say: you cannot do this in order to avoid wild west scenes by the PAS report in rural areas. For the one who is not allowed to do something, says: but yes, where is it in the law? That's a complicated conversation, but I'm glad we're having this conversation. I'm going back to the first point. It's about industry. It's often big investments. They are often sustainable investments. Sometimes many billions are at stake. If there is a notification in all 130 AERIUS areas, then there is no start with external netting. That is why they used to be priority projects in the PAS. I really hope that the Minister, together with her colleague from EZK, will see how that spirit can come back by bringing this type of investment under the development reserve. 'Cause they always need that last piece.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u193	This is precisely the discussion about projects of national interest or national priority. There must be a weighting. You can imagine that there are, of course, a lot of parties that say 'we really are of national importance' or 'we are a priority'. That is also something the cabinet is considering to see where this is at. I cannot say in advance that it will then apply to this or that project, but the conversation will take place in the Cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u194	Then I hope that the Minister will be able to undertake to clarify that to the Chamber as soon as possible. The same applies to the second point of those seaports. For me, the confusion is in the following. I get the location, because that's what you do under a dome permit. If these dome permits are still to be obtained, then the seaports must also get on with it. A project can be very narrowly defined, but within our seaports everything is simply clustered. One company uses the residual heat from the other company. So you also have to look at what exactly the project is on a larger scale. I hope that thought will be taken into account and the Minister will inform the Chamber of how this discussion with the seaports and clusters is going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u195	This is exactly the conversation we're having with the seaports. I know they have ideas about that. We need to look at how we shape this in the margins of internal netting. If we can report more on this, I will inform the Chamber. Maybe my colleague is doing this, but at least the cabinet will do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u196	As we reach the end of the first term, I am increasingly questioning whether the process that the minister manages is going well. What does the Minister himself think of that? Look at this debate. We talk about cow toilets and feed. This is very instrumental at measure level. We see a number of recommendations from the Remkes Committee being taken out, while my hope was that the Remkes Committee would lead to a change at system level. I was hoping that we could really make a system jump, whereby all parties can move simultaneously. How does the Minister judge this himself? Everyone is dissatisfied: farmers are dissatisfied, nature organisations are dissatisfied. How does the Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u197	Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u198	No, I'm not happy about that, because I don't want to talk about cow toilets here. I don't want to talk about all kinds of instruments here. I want to do politics on the main lines. It would be good if we could use the organisational capacity in society to really make a major movement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u199	I have started my contribution by saying that this should also be a social debate. We have to answer to each other about the choices we make. We all have to do that, not just me, but I think the Chamber too. We all have to say that we give priority to this, that we think is important or that this should be the weighting. I'm going to answer questions coming from the Chamber. I am therefore sorry that I am trying to answer questions that are being asked. I share with Mr Moorlag that we have to answer here with each other where... If the Remkes Committee's conclusion is that not everything can be done, and not everywhere the last time, what does that mean for the choices you make in its entirety? The cabinet did so on the basis of the package we presented on 24 April. We have said: this is for us the weighting by which we want to improve nature on the one hand, but also to keep an eye on economic and social activities. Yes, of course, that is a compromise. That's no secret when you're in a coalition. It's not like one party is dominant and can do that. In agriculture, for example, you look for ways of shaping a transition, but also ways of joining parties that want to stop. You also want farmers who want to continue to have perspective. There's a set of factors that comes with it. Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand thinks that we should have far fewer farmers. Perhaps Mr Bishop thinks that we need much more innovation. Those are the choices you need to discuss here. I think we did that today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u200	However, my idea is that it is very difficult to change the system from an existing system. You can see that with all the major reforms in our society, be it the Health Insurance Act or the pension system. It goes with auxiliary constructions and you use externals to do that. I often make the comparison with the Climate Agreement. In the end, it has also started there because independent authoritatives have been designated to create a coherent system flow. My question to the Minister is whether she would like to continue this process on the basis of that model.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u201	I'm trying to look a little bit for what Mr Moorlag means, so fill me in if I'm wrong. Among other things, with a motion from your hand, the Chamber has asked for a committee to look into what areas you should deal with. We have received that last report, which contains a number of very fundamental themes. I mentioned one, namely the relationship between the Empire and the provinces, and what tasks you carry out. That is not just to turn into a debate. This requires a much deeper discussion about our spatial planning policy. Where do you put that? Is that central or decentralised? Then where do you put what choices? It is perhaps no secret that I cannot suddenly transform the whole spatial planning policy of a number of years in this debate. Perhaps it is a debate that you can also have in the context of upcoming elections and election programmes. I'll give that to you. Maybe you can think about what the choices are when you see these things play out. Mrs Dik-Faber called it all the spatial design, the layout of the rural area. These are essential issues, and I believe that we should continue to think about what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you. No, you're through, Mr. Moorlag. I thank the Minister and I look at the MPs. I think there is a need for a second deadline. That's right. I now give the floor to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u203	Mr. Chairman. The Minister asked what kind of Netherlands we want. For D66, a Netherlands in which we live with nature is very important. It is therefore also a good thing that plans are now starting with a nature-inclusive society. If this crisis has taught us one thing, it is that it can only be with nature. That is a nature that is poor in nitrogen and not an obese nature with an abundance of nitrogen, as some here advocated. Mr President, I have a motion for a resolution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature must be put into a good conservation condition;]] [[Whereas for this purpose, nitrogen reduction and nature restoration should be used;]] [[having regard to the fact that the Cabinet has made additional resources available for this purpose, with a legal commitment to result;]] [[Whereas for an effective impact of resources reduction in the environment of Natura 2000 sites is appropriate;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear agreements on the efficient use and monitoring of resources in the preparation of the Nature programme and the agreements on nitrogen reduction with provinces, taking into account differences in the tasks of each province,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot, Mr Harbers, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-91]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u204	Mr President, thank you. I do not have any motions to amend the Minister, because it is not really the task of the Chamber to explain how the rules of nature are put together and what it must abide by. I thought it was rather disconcerting that the Minister kept talking about improving nature, when the basis, stopping the deterioration, has not even been settled yet, and the Minister must really do so. There will be another law and it will have to be substantially amended in relation to the plan presented by the cabinet so far. Then two other motions, because I see my time is limited, so I'm just reading them out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government is again paying a great deal of money for subsidies for technological laps to reduce animal husbandry emissions, such as air scrubbers, low-emission floors and the cow toilet, with farmers themselves having to invest heavily;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the General Court has concluded that the impact of these techniques is often overestimated and that farmers are constantly confronted with new measures and that these techniques are at the expense of animal welfare;]] [[calls on the Government to stop the policy of technological laps,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that manure cellars in which manure and urine come together under the stable provide toxic stable vapours, explosions, barn fires and risk of collapse;]] [[Considering that in 2019 the fire department had to pull out no less than 240 times to rescue animals from manure wells, almost five times a week;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a plan for the phasing out of deep dungeons under the stable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-92]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u205	A tip: just leaving the animals in the meadow makes dungeons superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u206	It just happened real fast. The motion is about technological patchwork. We have to stop doing that. I think everyone agrees on that. We should not spend subsidy money on technological lashings. I don't think farmers are waiting for that either. But is this motion aimed at all the innovations? That's actually my question. You have innovations and innovations. Perhaps a cow bathroom is not the most appropriate example, but there are other examples that I think we all say are appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u207	If an innovation meets all the goals that the cabinet has set itself, then it must reach,... I remind the Chamber for a moment of the promise that by 2022 the livestock farming would be set up to meet the natural needs of the animal, so that is one of the conditions, like climate, nature, and so on. If the innovation fits in, it doesn't count as a patchwork, because then you've solved all the problems in conjunction. But I haven't seen it yet, except for a lot less animals and the animals you keep, into the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u208	Mr De Groot also has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u209	About phasing out dungeons. D66 has sometimes argued for a ban on fertilizers. Remkes does that, too. Only if we don't have those innovations, which, according to your first motion, you don't want either, then we have no alternative. Yes, of course you have to get rid of those dungeons, because that's the core of all the gases that come from them, but then you have to have alternatives. That's gotta go right on. How does Mrs. Ouwehand see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u210	That you should look more critically at the alternatives and not think: oh, here we have been able to make a very small bit of profit in terms of nitrogen emissions, but what that means for the animals and the other goals, we have not thought about that. Such an innovation is a patchwork. Then you let the farmers solve a problem. There are subsidies, but farmers themselves must also invest 60%. And the other five, which also need to be solved, leave you untouched, and then you'll start again next year. This should not be seen as an innovation that the cabinet continues to pursue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u211	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u212	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u213	I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's reply. I'll get on with the motions soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Court has expressly stated that priority is to be given to sufficient nitrogen reduction measures for the annual construction of at least 75,000 houses;]] [[calls on the Government to provide the Chamber with an insight into the arrangements and safeguards for the full and timely availability of the permit space for the annual construction of 75,000 homes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Remkes Commission states that 50% reduction in nitrogen emissions is required by 2030, as otherwise there will be insufficient scope for authorising new activities or for extending existing activities;]] [[calls on the Government to legally anchor the emission reduction recommended by the Remkes Commission,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Advisory Committee on Nitrogen, set up at the request of the Chamber, has delivered a sound, coherent and balanced opinion;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt this sound, coherent and balanced opinion and to draw up the recommendations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-94]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-95]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-96]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u215	Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I would never have thought that I would recommend the opinion of an advisory committee full of confessions and liberals, with a Social Democrat in sporadic fashion, and that I would express this in a motion. It's just a missed opportunity if this motion isn't passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u216	Will you take the motions with you for later? Otherwise, you read them for nothing. Thank you. Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u217	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in its opinion on the nitrogen approach, the Remkes Advisory College recommends, inter alia, the introduction of a system of so-called checkable dust balance;]] [[Whereas such a system has a broader effect than only controlling nitrogen emissions;]] [[Whereas the Minister is currently working on rethinking manure policy, with simplification as an important objective;]] [[calls on the Government to develop and involve a system of a check-out dust balance, including cleaning up and replacing existing rules, in the rethinking of manure policy, and to inform the Court thereof in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts, Mr Harbers, Mr De Groot, Mr Moorlag, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Bishop.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u218	I thank the Minister for her reply in her term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u220	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, as is customary, but it is also straight from my heart. I've got three motions. I'm going to confine myself to that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government policy and the opinion of the Remkes Commission strongly steered the national established, absolute critical deposition values;]] [[Whereas the determination of the national critical deposition values is surrounded by great uncertainties and is highly dependent on the local situation;]] [[calls on the Government to reconsider the direction of the nationally established critical deposition values and to take greater account of the local situation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u221	The Minister has already moved something in that sense. I would like to see this as some kind of support for that policy. Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the proposed amendment to the Feed Scheme in relation to the nitrogen approach may even jeopardise the health of vulnerable animals;]] [[Whereas the sector has now submitted an alternative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the proposed feed regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u222	A brief question, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u223	If this motion were to be adopted, would it mean that the dairy sector would no longer have to discuss a plan with the Minister, and that no nitrogen would be produced, with all the consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u224	Thank you for this question. Good to clarify that. The second recital is explicit: 'whereas the sector has now submitted an alternative proposal'. This must be followed up. So they have to get on with that together. I think this also applies to dairy farms. They will therefore have to agree together on a better plan, a more realistic one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u225	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u226	For my group, this animal feed measure is a lump in the throat. That's what I argued in my contribution. However, the Minister has just explained very clearly and in detail the conditions under which this should be done. This motion seems to be an undermining of that. I'd like to be clear about that. The SGP Group says in advance: if dairy farming does not succeed, then the scheme does not have to enter into force. Because that's what this motion says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u227	No, this motion means to say that the arrangement as proposed is an unworkable arrangement that has to be discarded. You can't get away with it; the sector can't get away with it. Meanwhile, the sector has made its own proposal. There's got to be a follow-up to that. If there's no follow-up or one doesn't get out of it, it can't be that nothing happens. No, we'll take another look. But I have every confidence that it will come out in good consultation. Thank you for these enlightening questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u228	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u229	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to extend by a few months, in consultation with the sector, the period of six months for the disposal of pig farms under the Grant Scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u230	That motion stems from a point I did not raise. There are complaints that the procedure should give a little more scope for real implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u231	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u232	Mr. Chairman. I was already pleased with the extra EUR 250 million that will enable the sector to prove over the next three years that innovation works better than buying up. I am also really relieved after the Minister's reply I even saw relief from the Minister himself that the Minister is giving the sector the chance to do something better before 1 July with that animal feed measure. I heard her right. I really hope that in the next two weeks there will be good harmony, but that task is also with the sector. It'll get better for everyone. I really hope it succeeds and we don't get to the force feed measure. The Minister has said about space, that you must also see it in conjunction. That space, the pressure in the countryside, is huge, from all sides. But we also want a country that remains vital, that remains alive. There you must, also for the coming years, look for the balance. Hence a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet has announced a spatial exploration towards a more nature-inclusive establishment;]] [[noting that the Advisory Board recommends greater use of the spatial instruments;]] [[Whereas in rural areas many functions compete for space and require appropriate landscape design;]] [[Whereas the cabinet set up several study groups prior to cabinet formations;]] [[calls on the government to set up a study group on spatial planning, in addition to and similar to, for example, the independent Study Group on Budgets;]] [[calls on the government to provide this study group with concrete, coherent and calculated policy options, at least focusing on the vitalisation of rural areas, the spatial planning of rural areas, the results of the exploration of nature including construction, additional policy options for the restoration and improvement of Natura 2000 sites, sustainable agricultural income models, the role of farmers in the rural landscapes and living conditions, the quality of agricultural land, the opportunities and public and private facilitation of land consolidation, land policy, land planning, the 5M solutions mentioned in the Remkes report and the experience with concentration areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Harbers, Mr Moorlag, Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u233	I see you think it's a very long motion. You can withdraw your spelling formula, because the motion was co-signed by Mr Moorlag, Mr Geurts, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr De Groot. So that saves time again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u234	It's not five MPs yet. I'm not used to that from you, such long motions!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u235	It happened once before. I did that to Mr Nijboer five years ago. It then led to the Study Group on Sustainable Growth. I thought, appropriate to this time: now the pressure is on space, then at this time we have to look at the spatial design.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u236	I think it is very good that Mrs Ouwehand wants to ask a question about this. Did you hear the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u237	I've heard the beginning, but at the rattling at the end, I quit, I say honestly. My question is about the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u238	What does it say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u239	It was a steering committee on spatial planning. Does not the VVD ask for a return from the Ministry of VROM? I would very much support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u240	No, I'm not asking. I'm asking for ideas and calculated...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u241	Too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u242	That's the point. I ask for calculated policy options in coherence. That is exactly the debate we had earlier today. That is the type of pass-through that was missing, for example, from what the Advisory Board proposes, especially in the connection between the things I outline. That is precisely the pressure that is certainly in the countryside, where you have to find the balance with a view to a vital and lively countryside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u243	All right, thank you, Mr. Harbers. Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In an interrupting debate in the first term, I blamed Mr Harber for his lack of knowledge. I do not know enough about Mr Harbers' knowledge of the file to make an assessment, so I would like to take that back. My motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the revision of the Nature Pact announced by the Minister and the announcement of the joint programme Nature of the Empire and provinces;]] [[having regard to the conclusions of the Remkes final report;]] [[calls on the Government, when reviewing the Nature Pact and developing the site-specific nature restoration measures in the Joint Programme, to pay explicit attention to the strengthening of the resilience and robustness of sites by creating (sometimes crossing) links between Natura 2000 sites,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u245	It's not a subject that lends itself to amazing flashy motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Remkes Committee notes that the voluntary nature of many measures in agriculture does not guarantee the objectives;]] [[noting the earlier opinions of the Remkes Commission on land-based purchases of peak loaders in the vicinity of nature reserves rather than current generic policies;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt a targeted nitrogen resource procurement policy, not limited to voluntary, aimed at:]] [[removal of the largest peak loaders near nature reserves;]] [[achieving other rich objectives in areas such as water quality, CO2 reduction and odour problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u246	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the Remkes Commission's recommendation that NH emissions should have fallen by an average of 50% by 2030;]] [[noting that the government's ambition is far from being met;]] [[calls on the government in the announced legislative proposal to base nitrogen reduction on a hard target of at least 50% reduction in NH emissions by 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u247	Mr. Chairman. I have heard a lot of things we have heard in recent years about the agricultural debate: a sector that will regulate it itself, the belief in technical solutions to the problems of livestock farming, and exemptions for various groups. But let me look forward to the coming time. We're getting a bill, reviewed by the Council of State. I think it is very positive that the Minister says that she will not, as with the PAS, put aside the criticism of the Council of State, but that she will take a serious look at it and put down a legislative proposal that is legally sustainable. At the same time, there will be an arrangement for a threshold to the Chamber. I hope that will work, because then the builders can get back to work and we don't have to fear bankruptcy. The result of all this will be that nature is in good condition, that the farmers are happy and so are the builders. I'm afraid that won't be true. I am afraid that we will be debating again in a while. That's why I made a law of my own just to be sure. No motions from me, because I have a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u248	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Mr Madlener has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am a person who naturally hates a large government and too much regulation. Then these kind of debates must be hell. Whatever rules are here for the poor farmers... I remember getting this committee and going into it. I thought, as a farmer, you can't decide anything anymore! I think communist Russia could be still jealous of this. And it's getting worse now. There will be more rules, subsidy schemes, new loans for farmers, even more dependence on banks and expensive, complex systems. This does not lead to animal welfare. It's an extreme regulation. I'd almost call it decadence. This isn't gonna do us any good. This is going to be... It's going to be a little too far to say it's going to be our downfall, but this is obviously going to affect our prosperity enormously. Builders who later have to prepare the concrete mill with a Tesla; it is crazy for words and it doesn't get anything. Fortunately, the PVV is still in this room and we can bring back some common sense, I hope. We would also have the huge fixation on low nitrogen nature... Mr De Groot calls nitrogen-rich nature already "obese nature." I've never heard of that, but okay. Nitrogen-rich nature is also beautiful. That's why I have the next motion, because then we don't have to do all that regulation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[invites the government to formulate new nature policy without fixation on low nitrogen nature and to focus on nature that suits the Netherlands better,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u250	Mrs Ouwehand has a very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u251	I was wondering if Mr Madlener knows that most of the biodiversity is right on the dividing line between rich forest and poor, and that you do need poor nature for your biodiversity, because otherwise that intermediate area, where a lot of diversity can live, will be lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u252	Yes, I know that very well, but it doesn't have to be in the Netherlands or in every place. There are a lot of low nitrogen areas in the world where there is a lot of low nitrogen nature. But the Netherlands is a very busy country, almost the busiest country in the world. We have a high prosperity. If you're going to take this kind of draconian measures, if you're going to frustrate so many entrepreneurs, and if you're going to raise so many billions of taxpayers' money and distribute it to subsidy schemes, that's way too much for us. We love nature, but let's be honest: nature is quite good. So let's not exaggerate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u253	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister very much for the answers to all the questions raised by the Chamber. Because of the time I start reading the motion right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas both the sector and the scientific community recognise that a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions can be achieved by reducing the amount of protein supplied to the livestock by the animal feed;]] [[Whereas a significant further reduction in protein supply through animal feed is only possible if a focus is on the total ration of livestock and not just on concentrated feed for livestock;]] [[Whereas the sector intends to make an effort to reduce protein supply by focusing on the total ration;]] [[noting that the Minister of LNV indicated his intention to work on dilution of the nitrogen blanket via the feed track;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the sector, to reach agreed agreements for 2021 and onwards. to reduce nitrogen emissions by reducing protein supply via feed, focusing on target requirements and total rations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u255	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet intends to anchor far-reaching nitrogen targets for 2030 and 2050 as a result obligation in the Act;]] [[noting that it will bind subsequent Cabinets to legally enforceable obligations to continue the nitrogen policy of this Cabinet;]] [[Whereas the current problem of nitrogen did not yet exist in the last Parliamentary elections and therefore the electorate has never expressed an opinion on this matter;]] [[calls on the government not to include nitrogen targets in the law before the electorate has been able to make a decision on this at the next elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government sees a major threat in nitrogen and takes very far-reaching measures to reduce nitrogen emissions;]] [[noting that the Dutch population is projected to grow by over 1 million people over the next 10 years;]] [[Considering that, according to the Cabinet, 845,000 homes should be built over the next ten years;]] [[Whereas population growth from additional housing, as well as from more travel movements, more consumption, etc., increases nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the government to identify what population growth means for nitrogen emissions and to include this aspect in nitrogen policy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-107]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u256	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u257	Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. No? I'll take a look at the minister. We're done with the second term. Ten-minute suspension? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u258	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u259	Shall I wait a little longer, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u260	You can just start, I think. The members are in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u261	Okay. Then I'm gonna get started. The motion in part No. 91, I can give judgment room. The motion in part No. Ninety-two, I'm not sure. It is precisely the commitment we make to the source-oriented sustainability of the stables. So it's really about proven techniques. The motion in part No. 93 I also advise against. I refer to the explanations I have just given. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 94 asks for a justification. I can give him a ruling room. The motion in part No. 95 calls for a higher reduction to be legally anchored. The cabinet didn't choose to do that, so I'm gonna give it away. The motion in part No. 96 calls for all recommendations to be worked out. I have already indicated in the debate that there are a number of recommendations which we are looking at differently. We were talking about the reduction in the motion for a resolution before that. So I'm not suggesting this motion. Then the motion to part No. 97. We are already reviewing the manure policy. Then we will also see how the checkable balance of substances can be taken into account, if the Court so decides. So I can give this motion a ruling Chamber. Then the control on nationally determined critical deposition values. We don't. We're really looking at critical deposition values per area. It takes account of the local situation, because in one area we already do and in the other area we do not. The motion in part No. Ninety-eight is what I have to advise against. Then motion to part No. 99. I just had a little debate with Mr Geurts in which I said why I should advise against this motion, although we really want to take a serious look at the proposal from the sector. That does not stand in the way of this, but I have just made it clear in the interruption how we are dealing with this. The motion in part No. 100 just came out... We didn't really get the trigger. The motion was filed and I didn't quite understand where to place it. Moreover, the deadline is eight months instead of six months. What is in the motion is, therefore, already wrong on that point. But I have a feeling that there is a specific case behind this that Mr Bishop is asking. I have to discourage this motion, but then let me make him an offer. If this is based on a specific case, will he make it known so that we can look at it? 'Cause I guess that's what's behind it, but that's my interpretation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u262	A brief question, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u263	Perhaps I can refer to an article in the New Harvest, dated 11 June this year, which describes the problem. It explains how many of the 14 months in total before it, then the buildings must have been demolished in the preliminary route by all kinds of administrative matters and controls. That leaves at best six months to ambush it, and then we have to act quickly. This has to do with the scrapping capacity available. That motion is therefore based, among other things, on that article. We're not gonna solve that with "we're gonna take another look" or anything. There just needs to be a little more room in the procedure. That's what the motion also asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u264	I'm not gonna change that arrangement here right now. I'm not gonna do that. If there are really things that obviously simply have an effect on a period of time or if there are things that are really getting stuck for reasons that might be in the government's hands, then there is really a possibility of having a conversation to see how we're going to do that. But I'm not going to change the measure in a generic way. I have to look again at the state aid procedure and everything. Then it's really gonna be an administrative burden for me to have you the other way. I make the offer to look at RVO when there are really specific problems, but I am not going to change it generically.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u265	I was working on written questions on this subject. May I, through you, make the procedural proposal to the Minister to respond to the article in New Harvest and ask Mr Bishop to hold the motion? I mean, a written response to the Chamber on that article in New Harvest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u266	I see Mr Bishop thinking, but you have until Tuesday to take a decision on that, because then we will vote on the motions. Unless you accept Mr Geurts' proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u267	I was waiting for the Minister's commitment to respond to that article. Then I would have walked forward, and I would have said: I would have kept the motion on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u268	I understand that Mr Geurts also has written questions in preparation. So I'm starting to lose it a little bit: what should I respond to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u269	No, Mr. Geurts, you're not going to complicate things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u270	No, certainly not, but we shouldn't have the Minister losing it on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u271	No, she hasn't lost her mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u272	Nor on other files, by the way. I do not want the Minister to lose sight of this; let us conclude that, otherwise it will be on Twitter again. I was working on written questions. I haven't filed them yet. If the Minister responds in writing to that article in a note to the House of Representatives, that also helps. Then Mr. Bishop can do what he's going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u273	Well, let me be generous. I will respond to the article in New Harvest. Then Mr Bishop could consider holding his motion. If he doesn't, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. I think I'm very formal now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u274	That's clear, too. Mr. Bishop, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u275	To bring it to a formal conclusion, I will now hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u276	At the request of Mr Bishop, I propose his motion (35334), No. 100). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u277	Fine. I did indeed sit with Mr Harbers in the Chamber at the time when he tabled the similar motion concerning the Study Group on Sustainable Growth. So I recognized it. If Mr Harbers can hardly breathe because he has to read the motion so quickly, you know about the time: a request for a study group will be made. That worked out well last time. I can make the motion in part no. 101, therefore, judgment of the Court of Justice. Then the motion to part No. 102, by Mr Futselaar. He calls for explicit attention to be paid to strengthening the resilience and robustness of areas by creating connections. As I said, connection of nature reserves can be part of the measures that can be taken under the Nature programme. Of course, that has to be looked at on a territorial basis, but if I may explain the motion in this way, I would like to give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u278	That is partly where the problem lies, because I have not added "sometimes transcending territory" for nothing. It may, of course, be that this is far outside one area. There I see a bit of the potential problem that, if you want those connections to come and look only within an area process, everyone looks into their own kingdom and doesn't see how that robustness can be made wider than just in one area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u279	I'm just trying to hear what Mr Futselaar means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u280	I'll make it more concrete. Imagine that somewhere in East Brabant there is a very nice area process going on and that somewhere else, in North Limburg, another nice area process is going on. They might be great at helping each other by connecting, but they're both working on their own territory process and don't really have a direct eye for that potential benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u281	The provinces are working together to see what is possible with those areas. If that's the wallet of the motion, I can give her judgment room. May I explain to her that they are actually called upon to look at this in conjunction with each other? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u282	Then it's judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u283	Yes. The motion in part No. 103 asks not to focus on volunteering. I have already said how we operate in this area, so I must advise against it. The motion in part No. 104 is a bit like Mr Moorlag's motion. Only it's a little more specific here to ammonia, NH. I have already advised against Mr Moorlag's motion. I also advise against this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 105. I'm also dealing with a court ruling. It's not like we just have a fixation or anything. We have a policy of nature which is firm, but which also allows for economic development. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion by Mrs Dik-Faber c.s. in piece No. 106 asks that in 2021 the sector also look at the total ration and not just at the feed. This motion I can give judgment Chamber. Mr Baudet's motions for resolutions 107 and 108, I advise against. I have one more question from Mr Geurts on hydrological measures. The hydrological measures are taken within the framework of the implementation of Natura 2000 measures and the Water Framework Directive. As water managers, the provinces and the water boards together take measures to improve the hydrological situation of soil and surface water. The hydrological measures in the main water system implement Rijkswaterstaat. On the basis of the Drought Policy Table, provinces and water boards take stock of groundwater abstractions close to vulnerable, drought-sensitive nature areas. That inventory will be ready by the end of the year. Within the Nature programme, improving hydrology in and around nature reserves is one of the components for which resources are available, but the exact allocation of resources to spending targets is still subject to discussion with the provinces. It looks at what an area needs. So I can't say it right now, because we haven't figured it out yet. Mr. Chairman. I have also read that the CDA may have a new candidate for the list leadership, who even has ideas about the agricultural sector. How beautiful is it if you start with that already? That alone seems worth a good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u284	Thank you. I thank the Minister and the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-9.u285	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
