ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u1	I would like to welcome Members, particularly the members of the temporary committee, who unfortunately cannot all take part in box K because of the current corona rules. I would like to thank you for your hard and hard parliamentary work, and to thank the staff of your committee, who can often be present but unfortunately not now. With this debate, the temporary committee shall be accountable to the Chamber for the work carried out, the conclusions drawn by it and the recommendations made. The intention is to have this debate at once this evening. I say, in one go. I would now like to give the floor first to Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me speak for myself, whatever the others can do: we are sitting here as Members of Parliament in the plenary, but the people who really are doing this are right in box K today. They have studied the subject of digitalisation very thoroughly. I'd like to say the nerds are in V-K today. No nerds, no glory, so let's see how far we get. Mr. Chairman. I would like to start with a word of thanks and appreciation for the Digital Future Committee. With her clear and alarming report, in the sense that we in Parliament really have some further steps to take, she once again points out that the digitalisation and technologicalisation of society has a huge impact. It also states that the Court has a role to play in formulating answers to the questions of this time. We often notice in the Chamber that there can only be fragmented talk about major policy areas such as digitisation. Inevitably, we will then fall short of our task of realizing what we want to make society look like. That's what the committee's report shows. It is therefore commendable that concrete and feasible recommendations are made. Mr. Chairman. The technological revolution of recent decades reminds me of a quote from the diary of Kierkegaard, about how life can only "be understood backwards, but must be lived forward." This also applies to our digital revolution. We experience it forward, but as we stand still and look where we are now, we look back on a unique period in man's existence. With the advent of internet, search engines, the smartphone and social media there was a lot of joy, and with good reason, because digitisation and technology have brought a lot of good. But the revolution is racing and we see that the discomfort is beginning to grow. Fake news, influence on elections, platform services that disrupt the market, and the far-reaching capitalization of your privacy are just some examples of the negative effects of digitalization on our society. It is not for nothing that Tom-Jan Meeus wrote in his Saturday column that the power and functioning of social media companies are the greatest threat to democracy and society after corona. I would like to say that they can also be a threat to us being human, to how we live together. For a few years now, you've been feeling the discomfort about these things, and it seems like we're only now really realizing the consequences of these technologies. Each technological solution raises new questions and, for too long, a naive liberal idea has led us to believe that it would take care of itself. As CDA, we have a different vision of digitisation than has long been commonplace. It is important for us that it is still possible to be human in a digital society. We do not see technologicalisation as a neutral fact: it is always invested in by a subjective fact, often a commercial interest at this time. It is up to us to consider how to relate to technology as an individual, but also as a society. In this we will have to get rid of the idea of technological progress, whether a technology-induced problem can be solved with new technology. This idea has prevailed over the past decades, but it has not only brought good results. Technology must never be an end in itself. The report we are discussing today therefore calls on us as a Chamber to make it possible to carry out our core task better. The recommendations in the report are supported by my group, but I still have some questions for the nerds. First of all, the committee's main recommendation is to set up a permanent committee on digital matters after the next elections. Does the committee also say that a new government would do well to appoint a separate ruler who would deal with digitalisation? In a broader sense, I ask the committee how it sees the role of the government when it comes to digitisation. I would like to ask the committee how we are going to avoid in this house with such a committee that Members of Parliament who are not part of that permanent committee on digital matters acting as if the theme had been outsourced to that new committee. In other words, how do we promote that all the members of this house are sufficiently at home in the digital side of their portfolio? Mr. Chairman. I am also curious about how the committee sees the role of the European Union. In its report, it states that the EU is playing an increasingly active and regulatory role in the field of digitalisation. Because of the size of the EU, it is natural to consider how certain technologies that do not know borders can be regulated through European politics. However, I understand from the report that the authors do not consider the Court's grip on the European process of digitisation to be sufficient. Can the committee elaborate on this? Is it enough to try to get a better grip on policy-making in Brussels, or should we also form policies in this area in parallel with that in the national parliament, even if that means that we sometimes have to form policies rather than Brussels? Mr. Chairman. So much for my first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u3	I hear the CDA saying that we need to look as comprehensively as possible, in conjunction with digital policy. Does the CDA therefore agree with D66 that it would be a very good idea to simply invest that important task with one person, one responsible contact point, a minister of digitalisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u4	I think that in the many discussions we have had in this Chamber, I myself have done so in the Home Office, where there is a coordinating minister and secretary of state has been established that you can coordinate until you weigh one of us, but it is more important that everyone cooperates. When I speak for myself, I certainly see it from the point of view of BZK and the digitisation of the government as a major advantage that one ruler is also explicitly responsible for this. If it is true for the next cabinet period, we will also have to look at what our election programme says, but a standing chamber committee would be an important step when it comes to technologisation. My point would therefore be that it would be perfectly logical for this to be concentrated with a govern ment to which that committee can easily relate. But I do want to avoid from the CDA that we feel that this person is going to go over it and that I do not have to think about it anymore on my own territory. I would not like that to be the attitude of other cabinet members if there were to be a regime person for digitisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u5	That is a very clear answer which leaves some questions open. If it comes to one person, then is it not wise to choose it immediately, even today, by expressing it explicitly? If that gets to one person and not four, as is the case now... It is difficult to have a committee in which four people have to speak each time. So I hear the CDA say, "We agree." I also hear you say: yes, but then the other four or the other responsible ministers may not do anything. Does he see this now, for example, in the case of climate, a subject that we have invested with one person who must pull everything forward?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u6	It is difficult to make a ruling on how the composition of a next cabinet should be. Of course, a parliament may wish to do so, but that will depend very much on the parties or the majority in the Chamber and the agreements they make on the desired composition of the cabinet and the distribution of posts. We see very often in formations that shifts can take place between ministries, so it is difficult for me to answer this one-on-one. Besides the ministers, there is always a Prime Minister, who is responsible for coordinating policy. I would just like to think that if rulers sitting on each other's premises find each other insufficient, there is always a prime minister who can catch them by the ears. The cabinet speaks with one voice and it cannot be the case that other directors do not participate in an integral cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u8	Mr. Chairman. The inconvenience that I occasionally felt as spokesman for Economic Affairs when it came to digitisation has been the source of the initiative taken by those who are now in trade union K to set up a committee to take a broader look at it. That inconvenience will not only have occurred in the EZ committee, where we have a coordinating secretary of state, because there are other coordinating directors. And that alone is very illustrative for the fragmentation of the subject of digitisation. First of all, I would like to congratulate those who have taken the initiative to dive into this on behalf of all of us in Parliament. I would like to thank the members of the Temporary Committee on the Digital Future for the work they have done after setting up the committee. I know that they have spoken to many people: from science, civil society organisations, other governments, regulators and much more. This is in order to get a good idea of the challenges ahead of us and then to answer the question of how Parliament can best be set up to meet this challenge. That was one of the central questions of this committee: how can Parliament better control digitalisation? How do we ensure that there is more knowledge, sufficient knowledge, and sufficient awareness about when the government can intervene and how can this be done? How do we ensure a technological development in which our values stand? Crucial values such as equal treatment, autonomy, human dignity and privacy. How do we ensure that technology can contribute to a sustainable world and combat inequality? My group shares one of the committee's conclusions that at the moment, politics is not able to give direction to digitalisation, as well as the conclusion that this is partly due to the fragmentation of the subject. An example of this is the corona app. This was finally dealt with in the VWS committee, but the most crucial questions were about privacy, about using bluetooth and about whether Google and Apple still have a surveillance infrastructure. These are not questions that can best be answered primarily by the members of the VWS committee. It is essential that people with a knowledge of digitalisation look at such a subject. At the same time, technology must be integrated into a broader policy. The Committee for VWS cannot therefore be sidelined either. And how does the committee see the future division of tasks between the VWS committee and the new Digital Affairs committee? This question also applies to the division of tasks between the other committees dealing with digitalisation and the newly established Commission for Digital Affairs. I do not read the committee's opinion on whether there should be a minister of digital affairs. That's just what we heard in the interrupting debate with D66 and the CDA. Why is the committee still talking about this? Can there be any mention of this after all? Finally, I would like to ask why such explicit attention is being paid to European Union legislation. That is one of the five recommendations. Is that because the committee feels it is desirable for Europe to take the lead here, or is there another reason for this? I look forward to the answer and hope that these organisational proposals will help us to give more guidance on how digital developments will change the Netherlands. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, this will be with less power for large tech companies and more attention to sustainability, autonomy and equal opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u9	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Van Gent of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you, Madam President. I too would like to begin my contribution by thanking and complimenting the TCDT "That's the abbreviation we're talking about for the report. As far as the VVD is concerned, it is a nice advice with sensible suggestions. Madam President. More than two years ago, I started as a Member of Parliament. I had my baptism of fire in a small committee room, where I was set up together with colleague Van Dam. We were briefed by two clerks on digitisation and how politics dealt with it. I can, of course, bear that in mind, perhaps Mr Van Dam too. At the time, I did get the feeling, but that's what you get when you do something for the first time, that I didn't only get to know the wonderful world of parliament, but also the wonderful world of digitalization and that there was still a lot to gain in terms of digitisation and politics. As a starting Member of Parliament, you secretly think so, but Mr Van Dam immediately said so openly. That feeling was also confirmed when I spoke with the spokesperson digitization of the VVD, Jan Middendorp. There was indeed another world to win. In this respect, the VVD also immediately embraced the idea of the TCDT. We are also pleased with the present result. Technological progress in digitalisation and IT is changing the world. Maybe you should even say that it conquers the world at a huge pace. I always have huge discussions with Jan Middendorp about whether there is a third or a fourth industrial revolution, but the fact that we are using these terms is what we are agreeing on, because we do agree on the enormous impact of current technological development on our entire lives. Our government is not so much a reproach as a statement of the nature of the apparatus, but also of the nature of the political system, usually somewhat slow on such rapid social changes. On the other hand, society is looking forward to politics. It expects all kinds of answers in the areas of digital services, digital security, privacy, innovations, education and all those other digitisation issues. In short, there is still a lot of work to be done for us. As far as the VVD is concerned, this report provides a good basis for the next period so that a new Chamber will be able to direct much more on digitisation. I have two more questions for the committee. They are a bit in line with what the other spokesmen have already said. There is some concern in my group that there may be competition between the new committee and the existing committees. That will really have to be prevented. What ideas does the committee have on the role, on the assignment, perhaps you should also say: the mandate of this new permanent committee on digital matters, so that the fight against competence can be avoided and such committees complementary to each other? My second question is a little broader. With this note you can clearly see that in the future, the Chamber will address the digitisation issue much more comprehensively. That is, of course, also necessary. But what advice would this committee now have for, for example, a new cabinet, which has similar challenges? However, it will have to be avoided that this will also have a fragmented approach to the digitisation issue. Mr. Chairman. I have been looking forward to this report with great interest and I am also very curious about the committee's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u11	Mr Sienot has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u12	I also asked your colleague from the CDA. You are talking about a fourth industrial revolution, a major revolution in our society, to which the cabinet should also point on the basis of the frameworks set by the committee. So my question to the VVD is: doesn't the VVD also see the hard need for just a minister of digital affairs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u13	To be precise, Mr Middendorp is talking about the fourth revolution, and I was talking about the third. That's my point of view, but okay. It is, of course, a very relevant question. That is why I am asking very explicitly what the committee's view is. We do not yet have a very strong position on this. It would also be strange: if I had a strong position on it, why would I ask that question? It is a relevant question, a question that a new Chamber, a new cabinet, should certainly be concerned with. I am therefore very curious as to what the committee, which has been so intensively involved in the question of digitisation, thinks of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u14	Locking up. I can tell that the VVD is: yes, a minister of digital affairs wouldn't be such a crazy idea. I understand that, too. Because I can imagine that we shouldn't miss anything. That's what my question is about. For example, think of the situation that Dutch universities want to cooperate with Chinese digital companies. That really has a lot of aspects, from innovation to national security. We need to approach and look at that in a coordinated way, you might say, under the guidance of one clear minister of industry who can pull that off. Now do I understand that the VVD is over there too, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u15	What Mr Sienot tastes depends on his taste buds. I have merely indicated that it is an interesting issue, but that we do not yet have a strong opinion on it. That is precisely why it is good to have the debate, and that is why we are explicitly asking for it. At least we are not asking explicitly whether there should be a minister of digitalisation, but what the opinion of this committee is. I repeat, she has been very intensively involved in digitisation. I'd like to hear what she thinks. But we do not enter into debates so quickly, where we do ask questions in advance, but already know the answer to them. We are therefore very open to the debate and to the suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u16	Thank you. Mr Sienot of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u17	Mr. Chairman. When I graduated as a communication science student in Utrecht in the nineties, I wanted to do something with the internet. My handler looked at me with big eyes and said, "Internet? That's more of a tech thing." I was able to contact TU in Enschede. I actually only saw opportunities myself. From now on, all information would only be one click away from us. We could listen to music forever. We'd play games with people on the other side of the world. Later on, as a producer of MSN, at Microsoft, I closely witnessed how mysn's verb became. Soon my kids got more than they called, and they started dating me and then dating me. We now see that our lives have changed completely through digitisation. In a short time, tech companies are knocking over entire markets, but who is protecting consumers from these tech companies? We give out decisions to machines, but what data and algorithms determine those decisions? Smart technology in homes and cities brings all kinds of new opportunities, but also many new concerns. What happens to the data that is collected from me? Where are those data going? We have already become so dependent on digital systems that a malfunction of a relatively small system can shut down an international seaport. We already know the consequences of fake news for our democracy. Now we're gonna have to deal with deepfake. I'm saying this myself, by the way. I am just saying that, because it may be that this debate is being looked back at by generations after us and that people are wondering: was it Sienot himself or was it his deep-fake? D66 sees digitalisation opportunities to tackle, for example, climate change or keep care affordable. At the same time, we want to curb the shadows. That is why D66 strongly supports the great recommendations of the Temporary Committee on Digital Future. We thank the members for the valuable and valuable report. With a Digital Affairs Committee, we strengthen the House's information position. We can deal with themes in coherence, focusing on opportunities, risks and values. This way, we can make laws and rules work for tomorrow's world. Mr President, I have a number of questions. Which ruler will the permanent Chambers Committee on Digital Affairs relate to? Does the committee also see the need for a Minister for Digitalization? At the same time, a new committee raises the question of demarcation. When does a subject belong to the Committee on Digital Affairs and when does it not? And when did the year of a Digital Affairs Commission actually pass? In other words, when does the committee function? Moreover, an additional committee also brings with it additional work. Is there a need for more group support for this? One more point, Madam President. We see a lot of relevant supervisors: the Authority Financial Markets, the Authority Consumer & Market, the Authority Personal Data and the Agency Telecom. D66 believes close supervision is important. This way we avoid overlap or overlooking things. What is the Committee's view of this final supervision? Mr President, I will conclude. In short, digitalization penetrates all facets of life. I still see many opportunities, just like when I graduated, but I am also very much aware of the risks. As D66, we want to take advantage of all digital opportunities, but certainly also curb the shadow sides. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on this important report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u18	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Bosma of the PVV. But first, the chair needs to be cleaned for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u19	Mr. President, could we take it a little quieter in Box K? 'Cause I can't concentrate like that. All day long we have had the opening programme, but now is the main act of this parliamentary day, which we have all been waiting for. Honestly, it's often said that when you order a committee to design a horse, the result is a camel. But this committee had to design a horse and actually came with a horse. I'm gonna explain that. A year ago, a lobby was created: a permanent committee on digitalisation had to be set up here in the House of Representatives. As a member of the Bureau, I was allowed to see many people come by. There were all plans. The committee was very important. Finally, the proposal came to the Bureau and the Bureau said no. We know the trickbox. What happens if you don't make it to the Bureau? Then you're gonna play it through the room. We see that a lot. For example, there was once a plan for a contact group America. The Bureau didn't feel like it. That is played through the Chamber and then we get a contact group America. That just went by motion in the Chamber. You can and there's nothing wrong with that. On 4 June 2019, the Chamber subsequently adopted the Verhoeven motion. Then we got that commission. We were given a lobby around the presidency. The motion belonged to Mr Verhoeven, but the President's hammer went to Mrs Buitenweg. The tone was set, I'll say. Anyway, that temporary commission. It was, of course, clear what that was supposed to be: a permanent committee had to be set up. The question was very neutral, that's where we really didn't look for anything after all: how can the House of Representatives strengthen the knowledge position in the area of digitalisation? Really, there was anything possible. Any outcome had to be taken into account. Although most members had lobbied for a standing committee, you never knew what would come out of the high hat. And then they went to work. Of course, there was plenty of speculation about the outcome. Journalists tried to scam a tip of the veil, there was a lot of suggestion, there would be tensions in the coalition. For a year it was unbearable at the Binnenhof, chairman, let me be honest. What on earth would be the conclusion of the temporary committee whose aim is to arrive at a permanent committee? In cafés there was nothing else talked about and at every bus stop it was the conversation of the day. Sometimes someone said "corona," but then they quickly switched to the subject we really wanted to talk about, namely the conclusion of the temporary committee. The Netherlands was confronted with a cliffhanger like we knew from Good Times, Bad Times at best. Everything was taken out of the closet by the committee. We can see that in the report we've been studying. The Rathenau Institute was going to count for us how often we use the word "digitalization" here in the House of Representatives. In 1998, we did that a little over 150 times, but in the year 2000 it was already 400 times. Yeah, we didn't know that. Then it went down steep again, then it was a bit stable, up again, down again, and a peak in 2015. That was, I think, when Mr Verhoeven started to profile himself on this subject. Steep up and then down again. It's things that enrich a human life anyway. I can't believe you get to know all this stuff. And in the report, page after page the tension was built up: to what conclusion would the temporary committee that aims to set up a permanent committee come exactly? The sweat was on my hands and the blood was on my neck. And what dorks! Because the members of the committee did not immediately make the conclusion, no, that was smeared and smeared, almost sadistic, pages long. All kinds of possibilities were presented, for example a new temporary committee or no committee or doing nothing. The possibility of a standing committee was also mentioned. The tension wasn't normal. And then on page 43 the big final conclusion. Yeah. Where were you when you heard about Kennedy's murder? Where were you when the Berlin Wall collapsed? Well, Mr President, the temporary committee has come to the conclusion that we need a standing committee, that it is best for the country when we get such a standing committee. I still get emotional when I think about it. Who'd have expected that? Mr. Chairman. But then you think: there must be a permanent committee within the Lower House that will deal with digitisation. A permanent committee for digitization. Fine, I guess. But then the rest of the report, which is really what this is really about, is: how are we going to arrange it? The House of Representatives already has a committee. The structure of the Lower House is quite simple, namely: around each ministry we have a committee. So we have a Foreign Affairs Committee, a Defence Committee, a Social Affairs Committee, you name it. That is all very simple and very clear. Sometimes we deviate from that, for example the permanent committee of Antilles or European Affairs. But it all remains very simple, a committee always falls under one ministry. But what do we read in the shocking final conclusion? "Checking and handling legislation of the regiment responsible for digitisation." This will therefore be the main task of the new Standing Committee. Well, I thought, I'm the Home Secretary myself, that we actually already have a regiment coordinating, at least in the area of digitization of the government itself. That's Raymond Knops. That's a secretary of state. It's just on the website. So I think, with my simple peasant resistance, the committee is in favour of a committee that we already have? The committee has done everything, working visits to Brussels and to the Rathenau Institute, she has been counting, there has been discussions with professors, with consultants, the General Court of Auditors has been involved. It didn't turn out to be a camel, but it turned out to be a committee we already have. The Committee on the Interior is already working on digitisation. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of other things. "Exploring, thinking through and setting up current and future committee transcendental developments in the field of digitalisation." Okay, fine. But how exactly does it work? What's that gonna look like in practice? Because this is a committee that deals with several ministries, about several policy areas. The committee spends 30 pages kicking open doors about that computers, IT and internet are very important. I knew that, but then I'd love to hear how that works with a committee like that. Every organization, every company, is essentially an IT organization. ING or something, that's just a website. They also have offices. This also applies to politics, to ministries, to some extent. They're IT organizations. So this committee is going to say: that is what the Standing Committee is about. How does that work? I'm just saying, DOD is a lot of IT. Just think about what the secret services are doing. Does that leave the Defense Commission? And how does the Defense Commission feel about that? Has this committee discussed with the Defence Committee the fact that they are losing a significant part of their say? This is gonna be country cock, and who's gonna decide that in the end? Should the chairman say: no, this is for the permanent committee digitization and this stays with the Defense Department? How does that work? We talked about fakenews before. It's the Home Office. Does that leave the Home Office and it goes to this magical commission? The UWV drama, it's all IT. Does that leave Social Services? Personal registration is with the Home Office. Does that go away and then it goes to this committee? How exactly does that work? I find it very strange, because I also understand that this is a very serious attack on the cabinet and certainly also on the ruler, Mr Knops, who is the coordinating Secretary of State. What do the CDA members think? Mr. Van Dam isn't in "K" and no one knows why. Well, that's because there's no room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u20	Yeah, because there's no room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u21	I'm kidding. Does the CDA consider that the Secretary of State for CDA House is not doing his job well? Is that a bit of a conclusion? Isn't it up to the opposition to attack the coalition? Why this burglary of ours as hard-working, yet ever loyal members of the opposition? If the coalition's gonna attack the coalition, apparently it's time for an election that's my conclusion. I'd like to hear an answer from the committee, in unisono. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u22	Mr Van Gent has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand that Mr Bosma has been very emotionally involved in the drafting of the report and even shed a tear, but was it happiness or sadness? In other words, does he think it is a good advice to come to a standing committee or does he have a lot of questions and does he want to wait for what the committee answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u24	The emotion was in it that, of course, we didn't know what the conclusion was. We have had all kinds of people lobbying for a standing committee and they go on a temporary committee. Yeah, then you don't know what the outcome is. No. Well, of course you do. That was obvious. So we got what everyone was expecting. That's where the emotion was. In the end, I think it is an incomplete report. So you come to the conclusion that you need to get there a permanent committee of digitization, but then several speakers, including yourself, have touched that point as well............................................................................................................................................................................................................. It's unbearable. So you have to say, "Wait a minute, we're gonna take digitalization away from other committees." Well, fine. But how does that work, and who's going to determine that? The Defence Committee will say, "Wait a minute, that's ours." The Social Affairs Committee will say: that is ours. How does that work? Then I think: well, there had been the added value of the report. That's missing, and I think that's weird. The effect is completely lacking. So we have 30 pages on how important computers, internet and IT are, yes, I understand that, but the effect of how such a committee should function is lacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u25	So a solution could be a second temporary digitisation committee that's going to work that out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u26	Yeah, a lot more committees. For all eternity, temporary committees. I think that's a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u27	I think Mr Bosma is a little short of the report. There has been, perhaps not entirely exhaustively, that perhaps also cannot be said by a temporary committee about the fact that there will indeed be a delineation of an area and it will be decided which subject is or is not suitable for it. With Mr Bosma, I can see the confusion about who is talking about what. But how does Mr Bosma look at the European Affairs Committee? That has been there for a very long time, and that does not mean that there is never again any mention of Europe in foreign affairs. I'm on the Education Committee. We even talk about it sometimes. This is often about Europe interfering in too many things, but that is something else. Nor has the European Affairs Committee, like a vacuum cleaner, sucked away the subject of Europe everywhere. Would you mind going into that for a second?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u28	Mr Van der Molen tries to defend the report a little bit by saying that it says "there will be" in the report. So "there will be all this" and "there will be all that." No, that should have been worked out in the report and it didn't. Let's talk about European Affairs. In the case of European Affairs, you can make a fairly sharp cut in what is under the EU and what is not. A lot of things just say: sender EU. That's just from Brussels. I do not know one example of war, a turf war, about what falls under that committee and what does not. That's pretty simple. Everyone actually agrees on that. I have never seen people say "o, it should not be in the European Affairs Committee" or "it is" unless I have noticed that. It's possible. I don't know everything either. But when it comes to IT, Mr Van der Molen will agree with me that a lot of government activities, a lot of ministry activities, which we in the House of Representatives supervise, are IT-related. I gave the example of the Defense Department. It's a lot of IT going on there. As the Home Affairs Committee, we're looking at the Secret Services. That's all IT. We had a tour there; there are no men in raincoats anymore with holes cut in newspapers. Those are all men and women watching computer screens. Well, then we'll have a committee that says it should all go away from Home Affairs, because that's what we're going to do as a new Standing Committee. How's that gonna work? You keep getting wars about what belongs to that commission and what doesn't. And there is no referee, because I do not read in the report, but Mr Van der Molen is happy to supplement it. Who, if you get such a little war, will say: no, it is under that committee and not under that committee? That's not worked out at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u29	I don't have that fear so much. There will of course be a discussion in the sense of: what does it interfere with? But that also happens in the Chamber on the assembly line. We also have subjects that are passed on to BZK countries and then to another committee because we think reasonably: that is not our point at all. I would like to give Mr Bosma an experience that I have as a Member of Parliament. Now we want to have a discussion about the digital conditions in which elections take place. Then I propose to Mr Asscher to see whether we should include further provisions in the Penal Code in order to ensure that the integrity of the electoral process can be secured because, for example, it can be hacked. Well, now that's gonna be months of fussing, ping-ponging: that's what that ministry does and it's not. There is never anyone who sweeps these subjects together and really looks at them in an integral way. Do you not agree with me and the CDA Group that it is right for the effectiveness of our work as a Member of Parliament that there is a committee that can take those few things together, whereas the individual committees are not able to do so now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u30	Mr Van der Molen of the CDA Group apparently says that the cabinet does not manage things properly, that it is chaos in the cabinet. It shouldn't get much crazier: the CDA is now going to attack its own cabinet! It's very simple. Mr Van der Molen cites the Committee on the Interior as an example. It is quite simple: if anything comes from the Ministry of the Interior, then the Committee on the Interior deals with it. It can't be any simpler. There's gonna be a law. We'll see who the first signatory is. If that's the Home Secretary, it goes to the Home Affairs Committee. It's as simple as that. But if we are constantly having to talk about everything that we as Members of Parliament get on our plate "no, this is IT-related," the end is lost. We're really creating total chaos here in Lower House. And I still haven't heard the defense of Secretary of State Knops. It's being attacked by its own CDA group. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u31	We're gonna listen to the committee's response. The committee has indicated that it can proceed immediately with the reply, so the floor is for Mrs Buitenweg, the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u32	Madam President, thank you very much. It is a special honour to be here with my colleagues from the Temporary Committee on Digital Future. I would like to name them: Kees Verhoeven, Jan Middendorp, Danai van Weerdenburg, Gerrit Jan van Otterloo, Farid Azarkan, who unfortunately is absent, and Chris van Dam, who sits there. He was a very enthusiastic member of our committee but unfortunately because of the corona rules he cannot join us here in box K. We have really worked together as a team for months intensively and constructively to write the report that is before us today "Update requires. Towards more parliamentary control of digitalisation." In doing so, we have been assisted, as you said, by a highly skilled staff with whom it was a pleasure to work together. Unfortunately they are not here but are watching somewhere else: Rens Jansma, Niels Donker, Amarens Veeneman, Gerard van Roon, Marja Rotermundt, Martijn Barth and also for a while Martijn Balster. I am very grateful to them for all their contributions. We have been immersed in the digital transition that is going on together for a few months, through Mrs Bromet said so already, discussions and hearings with experts, organisations and other governments. We were chased by a high-level sounding board group. That learning process confirmed that we are indeed in a new industrial revolution. I would have sworn it was the fourth, but I like to be convinced by others. In any case, it is an era in which powers shift and society changes radically. You can see that a lot of parties are aware of that, too. As the CDA has just said, a lot of parties' scientific agencies are also in the process of reviewing and understanding how these changes affect the values we stand for. The question with which we were sent is what these great changes mean to us as House of Representatives. How can we, as representatives of the people, put ourselves in the best position to guide this process of digitalisation? There were people who were sorry that this assignment was so limited. Especially outsiders who heard that there was a digital future committee had actually hoped that we would really come up with a whole content digital agenda. But we have really concentrated on the organizational issue and that is at the heart of our report. I would like to thank the Members present for their group's input and also for the questions they have put to us. I can say that we have also struggled with many questions for a long time, but I am proud and convinced of the proposals we have made in the end. I understand that box-K implies that you indicate in which blocks the answer comes. I see that as follows. I myself answer the questions relating to our proposal, the question of why there should be a standing committee on digital matters. Why do we want that and how does it relate to other committees? I must disappoint Mr Bosma. The cooperation with the Vice-President was very good. It will deal with the developments that we are expecting from Europe and with the question of why we are calling for extra attention to be given to them. He will also address the question of whether our committee is in favour of a separate minister for digital affairs. A number of other questions have also been asked. Mr Van der Molen said: do we want to regulate everything in Europe or is Europe not ready for a number of things? I interpret that the Netherlands should do so separately. I find it difficult to answer such questions, because we will often disagree as a committee and that was not the question with which we were sent. I have a great deal of political opinion, but I think that as chairman of this club I will have to confine myself to what we have agreed on and on which we agree. Mr. Chairman. It has already been said by many: digitalisation is changing our society radically and in all areas. That also means that all the standing committees of Parliament are involved and are involved; I say that. Take the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment. In recent years, it has been confronted with the advance of platform companies such as Uber and Deliveroo. These use algorithms to bring supply and demand together. But whose data are they from anyway? And who pays tax on what? Is that settled at tech companies like that? In the Committee on Justice and Security, we regularly discuss the increased cybercrime, the opportunities and pitfalls of, for example, predictive policing, privacy and the Dutch Data Protection Authority. And indeed, the Committee on Home Affairs is looking at ICT and public services, but also at the development of fake news and deep fakes, for example, in which people can be silenced who they have never done, with potentially major consequences for democracy and stability. And so I can continue for a while before all committees: the Committee on Agriculture, the search for smart techniques to get better results with less toxic substances, the Education Committee, the use of apprenticeship tracking systems, Defence, digital warfare, and EZK, the development of 5G and the dominant position of tech companies. All committees are engaged in digitisation, and to an increasing extent. So none of us can say that digitisation is far from his or her bed. However, last year this Chamber stated that we, at least by a large majority, feel that we lack essential knowledge to carry out our task properly, that we are not sufficiently equipped and that we collectively, or at least very many of us, feel that we do not have sufficient vision of the buttons that we can turn on to ensure that man does not serve the technique but man. That's serious for a parliament. What is it that hinders us from gaining that knowledge and skill? That actually brings me to the question that many Members have asked: why an additional standing committee on digital matters? What we have seen as a committee is that all the permanent Chambers do deal with digitisation, but that in all these committees is only a small part of a much wider portfolio. In all committees, digitalization is only added a little. As a result, it is only a small part of their work for all spokesmen and in no committee is the subject of wide-ranging debate. The member Van der Molen mentioned just now that the subject is always discussed fragmentedly by the current organisation of the House of Representatives. He also showed this in the example of the election proposals. That has to do with the fact that we have a habit in the House of Representatives of setting up committees for each member of the government. Because in the cabinet not one ruler is in charge of digital matters, so not only Mr Raymond Knops, there is not one committee in the Lower House that is particularly concerned about this. As Mr Verhoeven will point out, we propose that we really make our own choice in this area, based on the fact that there is a growing inconvenience with the way things are now going, and not to make us dependent on how the issue was invested in the cabinet. Because this fragmentation does not work out well in the case of the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u33	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u34	Shall I finish the piece on this subject first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u35	You almost sound like an accomplished ruler: first finish this block. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u36	For example, we saw the problem of fragmentation in the subject of artificial intelligence. In October last year, the cabinet sent three different letters about artificial intelligence on behalf of three directors to three different permanent chamber committees, where they were treated by mainly different spokesmen. All these different committees dealt with different perspectives. Secretary of State Knops said about that distribution, actually half to the joke: Secretary Keijzer is about the opportunities of this technology and myself about the risks. It is interesting that there is currently no mention of the competition and competition that would exist between these committees. So you can see that all these committees are also on this subject, but the members of them keep their eyes and ears closed because they get a note with the name of a minister and think: oh, it belongs to us; we are going to discuss it in our committee. But that is completely fragmented and does not do justice to the complexity of such a subject. At some point there must also be a place where angles come together, where there is specialized support, and where knowledge of the outside world can also come in? Because now organisations and knowledge institutions often do not know where they can use their ideas, wishes and concerns. But that is not to say that Mr Van der Molen also asked about the fact that other MPs who are not members of that standing committee will now have nothing to do with digitisation. That may also reassure Mr Bosma. I would like to mention an example that Mrs Bromet just mentioned in her contribution, the example of the CoronaMelder. Because the legislation on this was indeed involved in the VWS committee. There, members were suddenly confronted with questions about the operation of bluetooth and whether Apple and Google have indeed built up a surveillance infrastructure that is difficult to break down. These are questions that go beyond what the members of VWS felt equipped to do. Ideally, a committee for digital matters had already thought about such cross-cutting issues and another specialist committee could use this knowledge. If this is not the case, the Digital Affairs Committee can be involved in such a process. And with that there is more knowledge, both among members and in committee support, to bring such a process to a successful conclusion and to ensure that essential values that we consider important are secured. That's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mrs Bromet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u38	I'm trying to imagine it a little bit. Maybe it's my limited imagination, because we have a certain way of working here. We have committees, and there's always a ruler on those committees. We will then ask questions to the govern ment, and they will then be responsible for the policy that has been pursued. How does it work with such a committee without a ruler? I don't know how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u39	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. That's a good question. But it's not our idea to do it without a ruler. We've been thinking a long time. That is different from what was just suggested, as if it is all in the bag what we want to do. Honestly, we've been talking about this for quite some time: what's going to happen? We knew we wanted some sort of bundling of knowledge. But then we went to see how we should anchor that in the organization as we know it in the Lower House. We have looked at Germany, for example, where they do have a separate committee, but then a committee without a strong dominant position. We found that unattractive. Then we thought, "Should we suggest a minister for digital affairs?" That is what Mr Verhoeven is about. We found that complicated, because it didn't fit the assignment. We dealt with the organisation of the House of Representatives. We said then: we are going to do that committee and we will decide in due course that will be after the Lower House elections to which ruler we first hang it. It may well be that we say: just as there is a Committee on Kingdom Relations in Home Affairs, it is not just the Committee on BZK; there is also the Committee on Kingdom Relations, there is also a Committee on Digital Affairs. All matters that, in this case, Mr Knops has with regard to digitisation, will be dealt with there. In addition, there is the possibility, like any committee that has the opportunity but not sufficiently exploited, to invite the Minister of Justice to talk about digital security, or the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs to look again at how it interferes with matters she is doing. So you have a basis with a contact person in that sense you join the tradition of this Chamber..................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u40	Mr. Bosma, I believe your cube is still coming. But you already have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u41	Every block is my block tonight, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u42	The Bosma cube.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u43	Mrs. Buitenweg just cut on corona. That's an interesting case. Then we have the Minister of Health. It's about how people get sick, how they get sick and how they can fight it and so on. Then you also have the corona app. That is very IT, so it has to go to Mrs Buitenweg's committee. People are gonna get tested, too. That's also digital in some places. Does that mean that the Committee on Digital Affairs occasionally moves here, pushes the Health Committee aside and says, "Ho, ho, ho, it's the corona app. Now it's digital. Now we're doing it"? Or: "Now the testing is done digitally. Now we're doing it"? How exactly does that work in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'm afraid you went so high you didn't really listen to the answer I was giving at the time. I have said that it is not intended that this committee should dismiss other committees once the word 'digitalization' is mentioned. At the CoronaMelder, for example, it also has a lot to do with how it is integrated into, for example, the test policy. It is therefore very important that the VWS committee is also involved. Only now there are a lot of questions at that committee about matters on which no one is expert. This whole house has little expertise on how bluetooth works and how the surveillance infrastructure is built by Google and Apple. This has to do with the fact that this knowledge is not being built up, because for all of us it is such a small part of the portfolio that no one, or almost no one, gives enough time to really get a thorough knowledge of it. My idea, our idea of the proposal, is that it is possible to do both on a number of overarching issues. Then on the subject of "bluetooth" knowledge has been acquired by the Committee on Digital Affairs. It can be used in the decisions of the VWS Committee on that subject. That knowledge is lacking now and we want to build it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u45	Oh, so you think the VWS committee lacks knowledge?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u46	Yes, and I think everyone thought so, because at that time all kinds of spokesmen from committees other than VWS flew in to deal with the issue of CoronaMelder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u47	But in that standing committee, so in the standing committee, which is going to be the Standing Committee, there is so much knowledge that all Members of Parliament are going to regularly inform: what do you think? So it's actually gonna be kind of a question mark. But it is not the case that this committee is going to actively deal with the examples I just gave, so the corona app, the digital testing and that sort of thing. So that is not what the committee is going to do. So it's just the Home Affairs Committee as we have it now, plus actually just some kind of question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u48	I do not know whether that committee will go to the Committee on Home Affairs, because that is ultimately a decision for a new Parliament. This also depends on where the focus of the digital portfolio lies within the cabinet. I can imagine that this is a logical place, but maybe others have a different opinion on it. And of course there are always follow-up committees, which can be set up. So that way you can use it. I think we should think a little less about competition and chicken drive on this issue, and think a little more about how we can implement, in a somewhat unorthodox but indeed workable way, what was felt so broad, namely that we are actually not sufficiently equipped to shape the digital transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u49	Mr. Bosma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u50	I think chicken drive is a bit of a sexist term, but okay. But you also propose that this committee, this new standing committee, should talk to directors...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u51	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u52	... and so we're gonna have debates? So there is a possibility that Hugo de Jonge or... His successor is gonna talk to that permanent commission digitization of yours. But what's the time when that committee is gonna set up? Who's asking? Is that Minister De Jonge, who says: I like this committee much more; I would like to have a debate with them? Is it the Lower House itself that is asking for this? Or is it that committee digitization that says: hoho, it's about the corona app and that's digital, so now we're in charge?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u53	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u54	I do not know if you have ever had a debate on health, but those are generally people who are reasonable. Get up. Get up. Get up. Get up. They won't let the cheese eat off the bread. They're not gonna say: you know what, it's about the corona app now, so we're gonna give our turn to the digitisation committee. That's just not gonna happen at all, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u55	It is not as if we are currently in a kind of optimal situation, in which the tasks are clearly divided. The example I gave about artificial intelligence shows that the subject is incredibly scattered. For a moment, I thought we had three coordinating directors, but I was already improved: there are four. That may be rather clumsy from the cabinet, but it's certainly clumsy for us. At cabinet level, they are even better at coordinating, for example, those three letters sent to us are still coordinated at cabinet level. But here it ends up being so scattered by our organisation in all those committees, with people who can all spend only a small part of their time on it, that it is difficult to get a coherent picture of how we are going to do it. At the moment, therefore, I think there is more fragmentation than we are going to organise when this temporary committee is in place. At the CoronaMelder we saw that there were only a few members of the VWS committee, and that then people from all kinds of other committees were flown in to gain that knowledge. Then it seems more convenient that you have people from VWS with you from time to time, namely when it comes to embedding, also in testing policy, as well as the organised input of the people of digital matters. I believe that this leads to more coherence than the very fragmented treatment that we currently have in the House of Representatives and which is widely perceived as uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u56	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u57	I can imagine that, precisely because of such a standing committee of Parliament's digital affairs, more MPs would be interested in the subject of digitisation rather than less. If we don't just think of it as a kind of natural phenomenon where we really don't know what to do about it anymore, if we see learning it as something essential political that choices are made in, and if we also see better how we can make choices and that we may also disagree about it, even though we see that there is still control possible, then that will also lead to more people feeling actively involved. There is also another advantage. I've heard that before. Mr Sienot mentioned, for example, that you want to ensure that there are no gaps, for example when a university connects with China or with the supervisory functions. At the moment it is very fragmented and then it is very difficult to see where the gaps in supervision fall. And that while we did see, also in a report from the Rathenau Institute that was published this week, that was the case, namely that the legal framework is not fully covering. I think you can see the full breadth of the digital future through such a permanent Chambers Committee. That is why we have made this choice and why we have said that we want to separate it from the formation, whatever the outcome. We can do that, because ultimately Parliament itself is concerned with its own organisation. I think I have said enough and made a bridge to my colleague Verhoeven, who will answer the rest of the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u58	I would like to ask Mr Verhoeven to wait until cleaning has been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u59	Mr President, thank you. Thank you, of course, to my chairman of this committee. I think there are two other points that remain: the point about the Minister and the point about European affairs, the European Union, I really have to say. Because of course it is also very important in the area of digitalisation. Let me try to bring together the questions that have actually been raised by all Members on these two points. Mr. Chairman. I will start with the Minister, because that is actually in line with the committee, as we have just discussed. GroenLinks asked what we as a committee actually think about the issue of a minister. Mr Sienot has made that very clear. It is, of course, crystal clear that a temporary committee of inquiry of the House of Representatives is not about the choices made in a formation. As a committee, we have always realised that. We have been asked to make a choice in this matter not received from the House of Representatives, but of course we have thought about it. Our committee believes that it would be very logical to opt for a minister of digital affairs. We believe that this is a logical choice, but we did wish to exercise a certain restraint because we do not want to write down something that we are not going to go on about at all. If you ask us what we would like, we would say: a minister for digital affairs with a coordinating role makes perfect sense. But if you ask us if we're going to go there, we say, no, we're not about that, but we'll find some. I think that is the most clear and honest answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u60	And Mr Bosma has a question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u61	More questions were asked about this, but I also know Mr Bosma's debate hunger a little bit, so I will leave it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u62	Debat hungry. Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u63	Isn't it weird that the committee says all this stuff? After all, the question to the committee was very simple: how can the House of Representatives strengthen the knowledge position in the area of digitalisation? We in the House of Representatives aren't putting together the cabinet, are we? State law is what's happening now, isn't it weird?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u64	That's correct. That is why we gave the answer to the question which was put to us and which Mr Bosma reworded just a moment ago: we need a standing committee. That answers the question. You have people who say, "Stop thinking there?" No. When you talk about a permanent chamber committee, it is very logical that you should also think about which minister or ministers this committee addresses. Now a number of directors deal with parts of the whole, creating a confusing whole, as Mrs Buitenweg just outlined in the area of algorithms and artificial intelligence. So we think it makes sense to make a ruling on the choice of a minister. D66's question in that area was: what ruler? Well, basically a minister for digital affairs, but an important consideration is that we are not talking about it. Mr Bosma is right about that. If there is a standing committee, there are other possibilities for that committee to discuss with the cabinet, according to how the cabinet is organized. There may be different situations. Mr Bosma has made a wonderful song of it by pretending that what we are proposing leads to great chaos. He has pretended that the situation is now a kind of calm sea, where there is never any doubt. He did not know the cases where things were a little more difficult in the current situation. I think it is up to us to point out that there was a discussion about the European Public Prosecutor's Office: is it under the JenV Committee or the European Affairs Committee? There was quite a bit of talk about who was talking about it. The Multiannual Financial Framework of the European Union: is that the Finance Committee or the European Affairs Commission? Agricultural policy: the Committee on Agriculture or the Committee on European Affairs? The GDPR and its implications: the European Affairs Committee or the Committee on Economic Affairs and Privacy? There are always issues, both in terms of digitisation and in many other areas, which seem to fall between shore and ship and where there is a half or half-hearted treatment. So the ideal situation, as Mr Bosman sketches, is not there right now. Will the situation we see before us be ideal? Nor, for there will always be tensions between the solutions and the organization you choose when it comes to 150 Members of Parliament who deal with thousands of subjects in our country. So let us not pretend that there is a panacea, but let us not pretend that the situation is perfect now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u65	Mr Sienot has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u66	That's what I'm talking about with the minister. I think I have already answered all the questions about the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u67	I have a very short question. I'm trying to figure out in one or two sentences exactly how to make that divorce. Mr Verhoeven quite rightly points out that you have one committee and the other. That discussion takes place very often. How, then, could a choice be made in the new situation? That hasn't completely made sense to me from the story so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u68	As Mrs Buitenweg has also made clear, the main debates are held in the Committee on European Affairs and the specific committee debates in other committees. At the end of the day, Members of Parliament will have to discuss this with each other. So there is no clear scissors. But take the clear, large, cutting themes. The discussion on 5G is a good example. There are people who talk about 5G when it comes to health care, because 5G also seems to have health implications. At least there are people who think so. So it is a subject for the VWS Committee. There are also cyber security issues, digital interference by China and Chinese business in our digital infrastructure. Then you've got JenV. Next there is also an interest in 5G for the future and the strength of the Dutch economy and the speed of our internet connections. 5G makes an important contribution to this. Then it's about the Committee on Economic Affairs. I imagine you'd deal with this subject in its entirety with that new committee, when you'd be doing a lot of digital subjects on a specialist committee again. But again, these are examples that make it clear that there is a method, but also that you cannot make a perfect separation in advance. As much as you would like to, the practice, especially digital practice, is too harsh for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u69	That's an interesting case. The argument of this evening's committee is: there is not enough knowledge in the field of IT. Okay. Now Mr Verhoeven says: then the whole 5G subject has to go to this digital committee, including the health aspects. But why does this Committee on Digital Affairs suddenly know about health? Because the esteemed colleagues who are going to talk about public health will say, "Wait a minute, I know if someone gets sick of 5G and those nerds in the Committee on Digital Affairs have no idea about that at all. Then you take something away from a place where people who know about it, namely the public health spokesperson. You then take it to the digital people, who perhaps do not understand the health aspect at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u70	Mr Bosma opts for a kind of Hague, almost Lower House approach, and he forgets that there are 17 million Dutch people, that there are scientific organisations and companies that all say: why does the Lower House not do anything about the subject of "digital matters"? That's because there's no clear landing site, because there's no clear structure. And so we propose that such a committee be set up to ensure that there is a clear recipient of the subject of "digital affairs." We state that we have a clear eye for the fact that there is always tension between different committees. The chairman of our committee spoke very clearly about this. And so it will always be searching for the place where a subject ends up. Mr Bosma then says: it will be a great chaos, won't it? Let me give you an example: there are a lot more to think of, because there are many themes that have different aspects to do with a subject and where one could say: let us deal with it in an integral way rather than in a fragmented way. And then Mr Bosma says: you take a subject away from the committee for VWS and then we have created another problem. Yes, we can go on for hours here, Mr President, but you do not want to, and I do not want to, and Mr Bosma does not want to, because we have to close at 11 o'clock. I say to Mr Bosma: we, as a committee, see your point and have taken it very seriously. We've looked at it from all sides. It is not that we take things away, but it is that we can treat a subject in a more powerful, integrated, so better way to allow the Netherlands to deal with digitisation in a stronger way in the interests of the Netherlands. This is not about a battle between 150 MPs, but about letting 17 million Dutch people engage in digitalisation in a more powerful way. By the way, I would like to answer one more question very quickly. Mr Bosma said that there was already a coordinating ruler in Mr Knops' figure. I can confirm that, but there are two other coordinating directors, namely Minister Grapperhaus of Justice and Security and Secretary of State Keijzer of Economic Affairs. All three of them say they're the coordinating ruler. Here is a good case for one ruler digital matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u71	So Mr Verhoeven of D66 notes that the cabinet is bad at dealing with things. Well, we're gonna get that win for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u72	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u73	Then Mr Verhoeven tries to get out of it in the face of the clock in order to give an answer. Because at last we're somewhere we need to be. There is no need to tell a wide-ranging story about a major problem. I can also see that coordination is difficult. Finally we get somewhere: what is it going to look like in practice? What does it mean? Then Mr Verhoeven comes up with an example of 5G and he adds: the health aspects of 5G should also be discussed in that committee. Well, that is an interesting point of view, but I would point out that the members of the permanent committee on health will then say: ho, wait a minute, we are talking about health and therefore health and 5G. So you're gonna have a little war between yourselves. Mr Verhoeven then says: no, it is digital, so it goes nicely to the Committee on Digital Affairs. It's beautifully made up, but in the end, there's no referee. In the end, no one will say: no, it is Public Health or it is digital matters. Mr Verhoeven, it's a proposal that's not well thought out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u74	I am inclined to give Mr Bosma an incompetence today. All the summaries he's tried to give of my words so far are of no consequence. That disappoints me. It's not good today. The summation is wrong. What I said was clear. I said: it is necessary to treat digitisation in a powerful way in the House of Representatives. Okay, good idea, dear committee, how do you want to do that? Well, by setting up a permanent chamber committee. Doesn't that give you trouble and twitching? Probably. Can we get out of there? Yes. Has there been a better situation than there is now? Absolutely. Is that an answer to Mr Bosma's question? Absolutely. We are now going to Europe, another favourite subject of the Chamber. That's the second cluster I want to say something about. The question raised by GroenLinks is whether Europe has the lead on certain digital issues. I am also looking at a number of other members of the committee, because it is good to emphasise that our committee thinks very differently about the role of Europe. That is not a bad thing, because it is very difficult to make a clear distinction between a European theme and a national theme. What we can say is that the House of Representatives has basically two important ways of influencing European decision-making, European movements. That could be summarized as: throttle and brake. Gasing means taking on the leading role of the Netherlands by taking an initiative independently as a national parliament or with a number of other countries to take a step forward in the digital field and then take it down in Europe. We have done so on a number of points. In 2011, for example, the Netherlands was the first country to establish net neutrality in the law. This was followed up by a number of other European countries. The second way in which the Dutch Parliament, the Dutch democracy, can exercise control over European decision-making is by controlling, by saying "this is going too fast" or "we want to adjust, give direction to this decision." Of course, it is true, and I think that everyone feels that the issues of digitalisation, such as the question of whether there should be technology and industrial policy at European level, are not subjects on which the Netherlands can only decide. The GDPR, the European privacy regulation, has also shown that it can really be of added value to act at European level. At the same time, it is clearly the intention of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and this is not only the case with digitalisation to control what is happening in the European Commission, the European Council and the European Parliament. Two or three years ago, the PvdA and VVD groups took steps and even reported on it. In fact, I believe it was in the previous cabinet period. They have sought a way to get a grip on European decision-making. This was not only necessary in the case of digitalisation, but in the case of many subjects. In fact, I would like to say whether it is to be checked by checking the Dutch government's contribution to Europe, or whether we are doing so in the debates on the councils or by taking initiatives and, as a parliament, offering Europe a way that the Netherlands has already gone a long way because we are often, or can be, the frontrunners, especially in the digital field. So Europe does not necessarily lead the way in the area of digitalisation, but it is a subject that certainly has a very important European component because of its scale. And so, as a parliament, we must pay very close attention to that. Then I guess most of the questions have been answered. I have just looked up the question of whether there is a third or fourth digital revolution. There is talk about web 1.0, web 2.0 and web 3.0 and you also have industry 4.0, where you could say that the three first revolutions were mainly about the relationship between consumer and internet and that the fourth revolution is much more about the integrity of the internet, including the application by business. But there are very different views on this, and I think that we should remain guilty of the answer here. I agree with the chairman of the committee, who said it was the fourth revolution. I think that is indeed the case. And so many revolutions will follow. Finally, I think all the questions have been answered. Maybe one more observation. Mr Bosma outlined the tension that existed in the country in the run-up to the committee's recommendations. I must admit that we have felt this tension as a committee every day during the period before our report. He overreacted somewhat, but not a day has passed that I was asked: Kees, can you say anything about the results of your committee and which way it will go? And that was indeed a very exciting time. What also struck me is that Mr Bosma, like many other people, tends to think that digitisation isn't really such an exciting or important subject, unlike, for example, corona. Corona is of course very threatening and shows his true form. It is urgent and urgent and that gives you the right feeling that you need to act. That's almost psychology. There is, of course, something else going on with digitalization. That is a very gradual, invisible and abstract change and it is sometimes made a bit laughing about it. But if you look back now, exactly as Mr Van der Molen outlined, and if you stand still now and look back at the world of fifteen or ten years ago, we must really see that we have ended up in a completely different world. That world has changed so that the values in which we live with each other and the values that we consider important have shifted towards each other. And that makes it a political subject. I really hope we can hold that thought together. I hope that the Chamber, including the future Chamber, and the future Cabinet, the Bosma I Cabinet, will take account of the comments we have made in our report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u75	Thank you to Mr Verhoeven. There is another question from Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u76	I think it is so fantastic that I can talk about digitalization in this committee that I'm going to go all the way with questions. I'll be very brief. In my contribution, I asked for group support. These are additional tasks that come with added knowledge. That's what the committee keeps saying. But extra also means extra work, means extra support, extra whatever. In any case, if we want to do this right, we will have to do it right. How does the committee view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u77	I think, because I've just prepared myself for the questions about the European and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u78	You want to come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u79	Yeah, maybe that's the best part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u80	Or a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u81	We don't do a letter as a committee for digital business. A WhatsApp message or text message might be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u82	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the second term of office. I call Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u83	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma suggests that I could table a motion to thank the committee. I've already done that verbally. I will, however, table a motion to ensure that the Chamber gives its opinion on what this committee has submitted to the Chamber. In itself, at this later time, it has become an interesting discussion in which the populists developed as the defender of the status quo and the other parties here had to explain why change is needed in this house. I enjoyed that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on the Digital Future has examined how the House of Representatives can strengthen its knowledge position in the area of digitalisation and how it can gain a better grip on desirable and undesirable developments associated with digitalisation;]] [[Whereas the Temporary Committee on Digital Future advises the House of Representatives to set up a permanent Parliamentary Committee on Digital Affairs, to draw up a knowledge agenda digitalisation, to ensure sufficient substantive support for all parliamentary committees on digitisation issues, to ensure a comprehensive legal and supervisory framework for digitisation applications and to pay extra attention to initiatives and regulation from the European Union and to the contribution of the Dutch government to it;]] [[declares that she is taking over these opinions and is committed to the establishment of a permanent House of Representatives Committee for Digital Affairs after the next Lower House elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van der Molen, Mr Bromet, Mr Van Gent, Mr Sienot and Mr Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35229-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u84	Mr. Chairman. I am actually very pleased that we are actually enthusiastic about something we want to change and improve about all the political differences here. That is also a task that we have as a parliament. I have looked with surprise at the input of the PVV, which said that committees here in the Chamber are fighting for attention, while, of course, we are all sitting in Parliament to make the Netherlands more beautiful. There is no competition between certain committees and we are not trying to take matters away from each other. As far as I am concerned, we are looking at issues as much as possible. I am very curious about the establishment of the new permanent committee for digital affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you. I call Mr Van Gent of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the committee for its answer. What is very striking indeed is that the committee, although very mixed up, really talks with one voice, one sound. This also indicates that there are obviously all kinds of coalitions possible. I'll come back to the fourth industrial revolution. I can, of course, table a motion on it, but let me briefly give my view on it. Of course, that has to do with my background as a teacher. The first industrial revolution took place at the end of the eighteenth century: steam and coal. Then you get the second industrial revolution: the electricity, the oil with the combustion engine and the chemistry. Around 1970 there was a third industrial revolution with computer and IT. The question now is: is digitization so different from that revolution with computers and IT that we need to talk about a fourth? I can comfort myself with the thought that historians might agree with me in 100 years' time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you. I call Mr Sienot of D66. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr. Chairman. Third or fourth revolution I am at least the fourth speaker. I'll be very brief, I promise. There are two points which have been at the heart of this debate, as far as I am concerned, on the basis of the very clear and good report with the clear recommendations. When does a subject fit into the good stuff when we start a commission digitization? I think Mr Verhoeven was quite right to say that we will make the right choices in this direction; hopefully I will summarize him well. But I share the analysis that has just been made in the debate that it is very good to start dealing with this issue at the centre of a single committee and thus to build up knowledge on this important issue. I am very pleased that it has been said tonight that a minister of digital affairs can make a huge contribution in that light. It would indeed be a logical choice. That's not what this is about tonight; it's about another cabinet. But at least then we will be giving the clear directive. I think that is what the Chamber is meant for: that you set frameworks and give direction, especially on an important subject such as digitisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you to Mr Sienot. Then I look at the committee for the second-term answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you very much. I really thank my fellow Members for this exchange. Of course, this is special. You're working on a report with each other for a few months anyway. At some point, that's done, and then it's quiet. Then it is a very nice time to talk about it here and see if we can bring it to a conclusion. So I'm glad you wanted to exchange views with us on the late evening. I am going to think again about Mr Van Gent's classification. I think I was born at the very beginning of the third industrial revolution; that is the worrying thing. I remember doing my theses on the typewriter with Tipp-Ex. Later, as a parliamentarians, I was not dealing with MSN but was mainly of the Hyves. I do have the feeling that I am now in a new revolution; let me put it this way at least. I don't know exactly what the gauge is. It has to do with the fact that you don't use machines so much now, but that there is a way that machines also operate you, and we are in a situation where a lot of machines interact with each other. There is also manipulation. I experience it as an era in which the panels are really moving heavily, and power is also being shifted, for example in the field of work. We are undoubtedly going to continue this academic discussion in a different way, but I think we all experience that we are living in an era of great change and that it is important to see how we can control it. We still owed an answer about the extra support. How do we see that? If there is a permanent Chambers Committee on Digital Affairs, there will also be a Registry. That's a registry with a knowledge coordinator. There will, of course, be a knowledge agenda. There will therefore also be much more knowledge. A number of people from that Registry who gain knowledge can also be used if there are specific questions from other committees, you can imagine. But that plays at the level of the Registry. That was not Mr Sienot's question, because he asked very strongly for group support. We didn't say anything about that. There is not necessarily more work to be done. The work is shared in a slightly different way. The subject of digitalisation is now being addressed in itself. It's just very fragmented and a little shaky. You can imagine that, if there's a committee, there's more information coming in from the outside. Then it is not necessarily the case that there is more work to be done. What you do get is a much more informed Griffin. That may also have its appeal to the Registrys of other committees, which can benefit from it. Finally, Madam President. There's a motion ahead. I do not need to pre-advise it in itself, because I think it is quite clear that we are happy about that. We are grateful for that and very much hope that this next Tuesday will have broad support in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u91	Thank you. I would like to thank the temporary committee for its reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-30-tweedekamer-9.u92	We are indeed going to vote next Tuesday on the motion tabled. Thank you to Members and once again thank you to my six colleagues in section K.
