ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u1	At present the issue is the treatment of the Law 35122, Amendment of the Penitentiary Principles Act, the Code of Criminal Law and some other laws relating to the amendment of the Law on Incarceration Phase and Conditional Release (Act Penalty and Protection).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister to the First Chamber and give the floor to Mr Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On 25 June 2019, the Law on Punishment and Protection was adopted in the Lower House. In the law as it now stands, many opinions have already been incorporated that the Minister for Legal Protection has received from colleagues in the Lower House and also from the Upper Chamber. The final product makes a sound impression. The FvD Group would like to congratulate the Minister on the thorough work that has been done so far. Our group also has a favourable attitude towards this law. Nevertheless, I would like to raise three points on the conditional release project. I should like to make a few comments on these three points. This law would remove the legal right to conditional release from prison after two thirds of the custodial sentence. The new law grants conditional release for a period of up to two years, but after a personalised consideration. Like the government and those who supported the bill, the Democracy Forum welcomes the conditional nature of early release. In my exchange of views with the Minister for Legal Protection, I would just like to discuss how the new conditional release regime relates to the other points mentioned by the government as desiderata in the area of justice and security in the coalition agreement, in particular paragraph 1.1 of the coalition agreement. Under the heading Judgment, Penalty and Measures, on page 5 of the coalition agreement, there is more than just the announcement of the Penalty and Protection Act, which is included under paragraph 5. We can assume that the government has sought to formulate a somewhat coherent package of measures by listing these points. If these points are not supportive of each other, that would be a pity. It would be worse if they contradicted each other. In my opinion, the explanatory memorandum to the legislative proposal is relatively vague. There is no mention in the explanatory memorandum of the various types of offences that present a challenge for the Dutch legal order. Shouldn't that have happened in relation to parole, my first question would have been. Are we not faced today with challenges that make any early release, such as conditional release, problematic? I am going to try to give some examples of this. My first example concerns jihadist terrorism and the chances of dealing with it through re-socialisation. This brings me to the first of the three points I would like to raise. At least that's two in my first term. A third point may come tomorrow in the second term. So now the first point: jihadism as a new challenge, and what that means for early release. The best introduction to this is what the government agreement on page 5 says about freedom of expression, which the government identifies as a great asset and which is protected in our Constitution and in our international treaties. It is, of course, right that freedom of expression is a great asset. It is, of course, also true that it has a paper basis in the Constitution and in treaties. But does the Minister also agree with me that we are facing very difficult challenges today in terms of actually protecting that freedom of expression? As an illustration of that statement, I would like to point out that the leader of the opposition in the Lower House has been going through life in a security regime for almost twenty years because of the fact that he is running into terrorists with "yes', with what actually is "yes' opinions. Opinions which he must be able to express freely, but which can only be achieved today by the acceptance of a security regime, which has made the freedom of movement of himself a caricature, and also freedom of expression in a civilized country, where the legal order should be effectively protected by the Minister of Justice and Security and also by the Minister for Legal Protection. My point would therefore be that we have not been able to curb this particular form of jihadism in the Netherlands so far. I would therefore like to draw your attention to another point in the coalition agreement. I refer to the first sentence on page 4, the ninth point mentioned under the subject of security and where it says: "In the EU, the Netherlands is committed to a much stricter approach to jihadism'. That may be the case, but we have this problem not only in the EU, but also in the Netherlands. We have a very serious problem with that for the time being. Not only do I say that, but so does the AIVD. Under the heading "jihadist terrorism and Islam', the AIVD writes in the 2019 Annual Report "The most recent annual report' on page 10 that the AIVD focuses on jihadist terrorism "because of which it still poses the greatest threat'. In last Friday's news about the trial against the Arnhem jihadist group, which is likely to be running the trial, we still wanted to attack the Pride in Amsterdam in 2018, we are also painfully confronted with this threat. Which brings me to conditional release in relation to those jihadists. Think, to determine the thoughts, also to Junaid I. On 18 November 2019, Junaid I. was sentenced by the court of The Hague to ten years in prison for preparing a terrorist attack on Wilders because he wanted to organise a cartoon contest in the Lower House of the States General. Junaid had traveled to our country specifically for that purpose from Pakistan. For what? He came here to punish. He came to punish for a cartoon contest. He came to punish for the principle that the coalition agreement rightly refers to as an important principle, namely freedom of expression. The great good thing, to speak with the declaration of government, is that those jihadists are trying to destroy it. To do that, they are willing to travel to the Netherlands. I believe that this example has implications for many of the subjects we are discussing in this Chamber, for example on the subject of migration and asylum, which is obvious, and on the open borders. But that's not what this is about today. Today it's about punishing and protecting the Law. What does a case like Junaid I. have to do with that parole? This has to do with the fact that the AIVD typifies this challenge of jihadism once again as the most important security risk for our time and that the coalition agreement promises a much stricter approach to it. But we do not find that with a word in the explanatory memorandum to the Law punish and protect. That's weird, isn't it? If you read the last annual report of the AIVD on the dangers of jihadist terrorism, and an attack is being made on freedom of expression, then that statement of explanation of the law we are discussing today seems very modest. On page 1 it is said that "the condemned should be aware of the fact that society does not accept his behavior." But how are we gonna do that with those jihadists? Those jihadists think they know better than we do. How are we going to bring about a change of behavior for people who are deeply convinced that they see it well, and not us? Shouldn't we be assessing the categories of inmates we're dealing with? Why is the explanatory statement not saying anything about the opportunities for behavioural regulation to work for people who expect eternal salvation to be part of it by punishing us for upholding our liberal principles when it comes to that freedom of expression? Would the Minister like to go into that again? How can it be that the detention and reintegration plan for the parolees is so written in a general sense and that it is completely silent about the category that the AIVD considers to be our main security risk at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u4	I have a question for Mr Cliteur. He just recalled the AIVD annual report 2019. I read that with a great deal of interest recently. There is also a warning for a right-wing extremist group called Erkenbrand. It is seen as undermining and as a danger to Dutch democracy. There have recently been many reports that prominent members of the Forum for Democracy have also been involved in Erkenbrand. What is Mr Cliteur's position on that? Because that is, I think, of a similar threat to the problems he is talking about. What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u5	Mr Cliteur is mainly interested in the Law on Penalty and Protecting. What has Mr Cliteur done? He has tried to establish a relationship between the coalition agreement and what is set out in it, and the Law on Punishment and Protection and the explanatory memorandum to this law. How do they relate to each other? Those reports of the AIVD, also in that last annual report of the AIVD, say a lot: about animal rights activists, about cybersecurity, about everything. But what I'm focusing on right now, for tonight, is this evening's theme. And then we are dealing with the jihadist attack on freedom of expression, and I have a few questions for the Minister for Legal Protection. I think it would be great to have at another time all the things that are mentioned in those AIVD-reports by cycling, but I think it would take us a little far from the theme of this evening to go through all that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u6	Well, Mr Cliteur himself brings up the annual report of the AIVD and on jihadism. I did not expect that at first in this debate either. So I thought, for the sake of completeness, that this is one of the few organisations mentioned by name and by name in that report. And they will be associated with your party. That's why I wanted to put that in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u7	Then I have to disappoint Mr Otten a little. It is certainly not the only or one of the few organisations mentioned. A lot of organisations are mentioned. Of course, Mr Otten may have a special interest in his previous party. I imagine that's gonna jump up a little bit. But there's been a lot of talk in those AIVD reports. I think it is best to limit ourselves now to the jihadist attack on the freedom of expression that this should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u8	I have a question for Mr Cliteur on the basis of what he has just said. I happened to read in the Nieuw Israëlite Weekblad an interesting interview by Esther Voet with a certain Jason W. Jason was a member of the Hofstadgroep and received years of imprisonment. In prison, after contacts with parole staff and psychiatric services, he at some point made his jihadism. Now he is free, even teaching at school and warning young people against the pernicious jihadist ideas. So you can do that in a prison, too. Isn't that consistent with what the government is proposing in the bill regarding personal attention to inmates? Would you like to reflect on that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u9	Yeah, I'd love to. Jason Walters is on "What was it?" On November 11, 2004, a hand grenade was thrown to the police in the Hague Laakkwartier. He got a very long sentence for that, and he served it. He's been reading in prison, incredibly interesting. And what did he read in prison? He went, among other things, to read Plato's Euthyphro. It says very interesting things about the autonomy of morality. What was there and what Jason triggered was the question: is the good good good good because it is commanded by God or is the good good good in itself and is it therefore commanded by God? He always thought it was the first. The theme of the autonomy of morals has therefore become extremely fascinating to him. On that basis, he got rid of his jihadist views. Actually, that's what happened by reading Plato. I therefore very much appreciate the fact that you are raising this point now. He's studying now. He's even getting a PhD in Leiden. It is therefore extremely important, also for this deradicalisation, that we think carefully with which we confront people in that detention regime. I am very pleased with the example you are setting. I would say that we should definitely continue on that track. I was disappointed that there was nothing on this subject in the explanatory statement. You have helped me greatly to remember this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u10	I am not giving this example for nothing, because it is a bit contrary to your introduction that jihadists always want very dangerous things and, as it were, can't be reasonable, even if they have good guidance. That is why I am setting this example. You were talking about Plato. Jason W. was primarily triggered by the film Schindler's List. That's what got him thinking after talking to his mentor in prison, and finally doing that jihadistic thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u11	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u12	But I understand he's going to promote in Leiden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u13	I know him, and we talked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u14	Please continue your argument, Mr. Cliteur.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u15	It would be very nice if in prison there would be attention to the mindset, to the way these jihadists think. That would be of enormous significance. The most important thing is that there is first of all the realization that jihadists are not just dangerous lunatics, but that they are inspired by a certain ideology. You have to think about how you talk to those people about that and how you might be able to help them find another way of thinking. I will continue with my speech. I am therefore a little surprised that so little has been said about this in the preliminary draft. That was also the case with the treatment of this law in the House of Representatives. A number of things have been discussed. A year ago, this played in the House of Representatives. Then there was talk of Michael P., the killer of Anne Faber. Volkert van der Graaf also came to the discussion of course. But there has been no mention of jihadists such as Junaid I., who is now in prison, or Jawed S., who has been sentenced to 26 years on the basis of a terrorist attack on the Central Station in Amsterdam recently. So my question is simply this: can ideologically motivated believers such as those mentioned here get parole at all? Under what conditions could this be done? This is in line with the exchange of views with Mr Dittrich, as we have just had. Or should we assume that this category of people is subject to long-term supervision? I'd like to hear it. That was the first point I would like to make to the Minister for Legal Protection. That brings me to the second point. The second point that I would like to discuss, in addition to the jihadist terrorism in relation to conditional release, is another point that, in my opinion, is also a little stepmotherly in the explanatory statement and has not been raised in the debate in the House of Representatives, if I have read it correctly. I refer to the relationship between retaliation and prevention mentioned on page 5 of the explanatory memorandum. Does the element of retaliation receive sufficient attention in conditional release? It's all about socialization, actually. It's all about recidivism. But that retribution is also an important goal of punishment. I think that what will cause many people to hesitate to even consider conditional release, even with that maximum of two years, is that in recent years we have faced a number of things that you might experience as a tragedy. With 'drama' I do not mean that we are dealing here with emotional reactions that one may expect from victims and relatives, but 'drama' in the sense that the feeling of justice is shocked, the confidence in the Dutch legal order of the non-involved, of everyone with healthy moral intuition, I would say. Things have happened in the Netherlands that have seriously undermined confidence in justice in a significant part of the population. I am referring, of course, to Volkert van der Graaf, who murdered Pim Fortuyn on 6 May 2002. In Volkert's opinion, Fortuyn had to be stopped. Just as Junaid came from Pakistan to Holland to stop Geert Wilders, Volkert wanted to stop Pim Fortuyn. So he's a home-grown terrorist. Unlike Junaid, Volkert succeeded. It's 18 years later now. Pim Fortuyn is dead and Volkert van der Graaf is at large. What does that have to do with today's subject? The answer is obvious. Volkert van der Graaf was released early in 2014 after successfully challenging the conditions that prevented his early release, last but not least the condition of the physical reporting obligation. The reason Van der Graaf fought that according to the Algemeen Dagblad was because he indicated he wanted to emigrate. Once you've emigrated, you can't call in so easily. After winning that trial, Van der Graaf decided to stay in the Netherlands. My question to the Minister is now this. Does he agree with me that the case of Van der Graaf should be seen as a frightening image of something we never want to see again in the Netherlands? Does he agree with me that the law that is now before us, punishing and protecting the Law, provides sufficient guarantees that this will not happen again? Shouldn't we say from a point of view of retaliation that as long as Fortuyn can't come back into society, Volkert shouldn't come back into society? Or do I not want to rule that out too? Is that a lack of civilisation on my part, insufficient training in the humanitarian principles underlying our democratic rule of law? Then I'd like to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u16	You mention the example of Volkert van der Graaf. Many experts point out that when the vi becomes two years old, people such as Volkert van der Graaf, for example, will choose not to cooperate at all in prison, because they can avoid the vi, stay two years longer and then get rid of all supervision. In fact, it makes society more unsafe, because someone returns into society unguided and unprepared. The probation, the Council for Justice, the NVvR and also the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection all point to this risk. Those are real advices you should listen to as far as I'm concerned. How do you see that? You say that this should not happen again, but it may be easier if you look at this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u17	I will consider it a little longer tomorrow in my second term, because I would like to raise the third point that I would like to discuss with the Minister. That is the relationship between the different criminal targets dealt with on pages 4 and 5 of the explanatory memorandum. I can give you a preview right now. What I think is a bit of a problem with conditional release is that it's actually all about resocialization and reducing recidivism. But a very important goal of punishment is also retaliation, doing justice to something that has been done in the past. The philosopher Immanuel Kant said: if tomorrow the world ends, then today the final sentence must be executed. This means that you must not only be concerned with useful purposes in the future, with the protection of society, but also with certain moral intuitions. I think it stings with Van der Graaf and still plays a role for many people as a huge break in their confidence in the Dutch legal order that people think that the retribution element in this case has been totally snowed down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u18	I would remind you that the Court of Justice and the NVvR say that the penalties will fall precisely with this law. If you now want to effectively impose 20 years, the judge now imposes 30 years: a third added for the vi. It's gonna be 22 years. The judges and the officers say that's what's gonna happen. The Minister feels differently, but that is what justice says. You're talking about retribution, but this law doesn't make it any better. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u19	I will not say that everything in this law is good either, but I have now warned against something that has happened in the past. We will have to make an integral assessment of this law following the exchange of views with the Minister and also following the exchange of views with colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u20	However, I would like an answer to my question as to what you think should happen if those penalties fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u21	I am happy to give you the floor, but you will have to wait until you have the floor. You will now be given the floor for the third time in this interruption. That's the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u22	The question is: what do you think if those sentences drop? The judges say that's inherent in this law. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u23	I don't know. I am going to give my opinion on this when we have had a wide-ranging exchange of views on this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u24	Mrs. Bikker has been waiting for a while, Mr. Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u25	I have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u26	Yes, but Mrs Bikker was first. You can catch up later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u27	This obviously lives with more people. Surely I have a question for Mr Cliteur: when is punishment enough? There's nothing done about the punishment here. Therefore, a certain number of years can still be imposed for murder, rape and anything we find abhorrent and horrible. But when I hear Mr Cliteur's speech, he actually says that it is not fast enough in terms of retaliation and that it must be more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u28	It's not fast?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u29	It's not fast enough in terms of retribution. Does this mean you're pleading for higher sentences? Or is a punishment never high enough? Are you going to go any further in your conclusions? I am curious to see what Mr Cliteur sees of him when he tells the government and with it an alternative because there has to be more retribution. How and then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u30	I didn't say there had to be more retribution. I mentioned an example of a certain traumatic experience following what happened in 2002. There was then someone who robbed a Dutch politician, a future Prime Minister, of his life. That politician is no longer there, and this man has actually just been released. I have said that I regard this as a very difficult situation from the point of view of retaliation. But I didn't say that in general, I'm in favour of higher sentences. No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u31	No, clear. This is a case that Mr Cliteur refers to and not a wide range of cases. It is true that this case has shocked society by how quickly someone got out; I can feel that with him. Mr Cliteur has to say with me that if this bill were to be adopted, we would be talking about a different level of punishment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u32	Yes, that might be possible, but I am now concentrating on murder and manslaughter, in the case of someone who is travelling from Pakistan to kill a Dutch politician. That's the first part of my story. The second story is about someone who actually killed a Dutch politician. That's all murder and manslaughter. But it is not the case, in general terms, that punishments should all become heavier to do justice to the sense of retribution. Only in this case, with Volkert van der G., I think that was a long way to go. But maybe you don't think so. That's what I like to hear. That would be interesting, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mrs. Bikker, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u34	I just said in my second interruption that my impression is that with the new law such a case would no longer have the effect that we have now seen, with Mr Volkert van der G. being released so early. The impression has arisen in society, and I am not saying that this is true; I would even reject it if this were to happen in the case of automation. That's something you and I both don't want. It is precisely for this reason that this law could have a good effect, especially in these situations. I am therefore very much looking forward to Mr Cliteur's second term, in which he will weigh and assess everything. Because it looks pretty positive for the bill now. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u35	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u36	I ran to the microphone following what I heard Mr Cliteur say after Mrs Veldhoen's intelligent question as to whether in practice this would not lead to lower penalties. We too have prepared for this. Mr Cliteur is the first speaker and I am the last, but this point also came to our attention. What do you do when you're getting ready for that? Then you go see what the great criminal law specialist Theo Hiddema thinks about this, because he also talked about this. On 20 June 2019, when Minister Dekker examined this bill in the Lower House, he literally warned that in practice the judges are going to impose a lower penalty because of the stricter vi, because they assume "I want him or her to sit for so many years." So that seems to be your party's point of view. Does Mr Cliteur share that view of Mr Hiddema, his party colleague? That is my question, through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u37	In response to the story of Mr Hiddema, which I read and in which, in the spirit I have just discussed, he also voted in favour of this law on Volkert van der Graaf, because it is ultimately a certain tightening-up in relation to the existing regime. And as Mr Otten knows, we are not entitled to any further amendment here. So now we're in the final phase. "Do we think this is better than the previous regime or not?', That's actually the question ahead. And I have to tell you that you have indeed understood that I tend to think that what is now ahead is better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u38	I have not yet asked for an explanation of vote from Mr Cliteur, but I asked whether, because he says he does not know where it leads, he believes that in practice this leads to lower penalties, as some of his party members think. Or don't you think so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u39	This will depend to a large extent on how it is applied. Maybe we can ask the Minister if he can tell us anything about that. But that, I think, is a bit of the question ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u40	Mr Recourt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u41	I stuck to where Mr. Cliteur said: Pim Fortuyn is no longer in this society, does his killer have to be in this society, or do I overlook basic principles of humanity? I'm going to make it my own, but I think I'm going to put it together. How am I supposed to explain that? What is the Forum's point of view? Does that indeed mean "eye for an eye," so if there is a murder, a life sentence? Or did I hear you all wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u42	"An eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth" is not retribution. Retribution is not a right of revenge. Recompense means that a penalty must be proportional to the degree of infringement of the rule of law. And then I think that if one has purposely taken the life of another, take the case-Van der Graaf as we have just discussed here, there is something wrong with many people when after fourteen, eighteen or twenty years such a person is still walking around again. That's what I'm saying, too. And I'm also curious what that is like for you, whether you say "well, that was the system then and I'm kind of at peace with that" or not; I find that interesting. But I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u43	To begin with: if the judge has spoken, then that is done; then I have a private opinion about it, but that is not the issue. Now the legislative proposal is on the table, in which there is indeed retribution or at least suffering added to it. And I thought I heard you say that in the case of murder, that add-on can't be any different than life. Apparently, I didn't hear you right. You say there's some kind of proportionality in that. And at least in the case you mentioned, you are not talking about proportionality. But you're not saying murder always means throwing away the key.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u44	To answer that, that would depend very much on the circumstances. But what I have just given you is the case of this Volkert van der G, and I have said that I find this unacceptable in principle. I can't give you now on a note that I would all find more appropriate punishments for murder. I also want to listen very carefully to the judge and read the verdicts, but I do not go as far as you say, if you say "that's up to the judge, I can have a private view of that, but it is less important then," or "I don't think I need to judge it." I think that's of enormous significance. If we didn't, even as politicians, I think we'd be very alienated from society. On the contrary, we must take a view on this. But maybe I misunderstood you, and then I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u45	For the last time, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't understand Mr. Cliteur when he says "principal" difference, because I'm hearing a discussion about punishment. I find an individual case uncomfortable anyway. Anyway, it's a discussion about punishment: it should have been 14 years, or 18, or 22, or 30. But that's not a difference in principle, is it? That's just a gradual difference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u46	Well, great gradual differences make essential differences at some point. But at least it is something we can judge and perhaps we should do. I do not have a key to develop a whole new system of punishment or penitentiary, but I do have certain intuitions, namely that in some cases it has gone very wrong. That's the case with Van der Graaf and Junaid I. Those are both situations that I think are very serious. If I may make a final sentence, or a half or a quarter, that is that in both cases it was fundamental attacks on the basis, the essence of our democratic system, namely freedom of expression, which can also be found in the coalition agreement and is referred to as a very great asset there. Then I think the state also has an expensive duty to protect it very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. You spoke on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Mrs Veldhoen has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks insists that everyone's safety...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u49	May I ask you not to touch the microphones? That's in the instruction that's on your desk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u50	Oh, I won't do it again. Excuse me, I didn't read it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u51	The timer is there, in case you haven't read it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u52	GroenLinks believes that the security of everyone in this country must be guaranteed as much as possible, with an effective approach to crime. For my group, this approach is the right mix of prevention and repression. Punishment to make the perpetrator pay, to offer compensation to victims, to deter potential offenders and to prevent repetition, and thus to optimally protect society. Today we are discussing a legislative proposal which contains a system change, a break with the way in which we have dealt with the system of conditional release so far. This proposal contains positive and negative elements. Whether the elements of this system change are in balance is very important for my group. As far as my group is concerned, it begins with the question of the need for this change. What problem does the Minister want to solve? The Minister states that the need for this change of system lies in the public support; the lack of it in the current system whereby a prisoner is released after two thirds of the custodial sentence. Of course, my group is also aware of the fact that some people find this regulation difficult to explain, especially in large, rumor-making criminal cases, as we have just heard. But the question is what is the right response to that. As far as my group is concerned, better information would have been more appropriate. We are not alone in this; the Council for Criminal Affairs and Youth Protection is also in favour of this. I will not dwell on this because, as far as my group is concerned, a change in the law is necessary, and this is all the more necessary in the case of a change in the system. In this case, research has actually been carried out, but this change is not based on this. The conclusion of Erasmus University's research was that the system functions adequately in view of the objectives of reintegration and prevention and that the vi is not self-evident. It is not automatically applied. The investigation therefore does not follow any need. The Court of Justice Council, the three parole organisations united in 3RO, and the Dutch order of lawyers also all point to the lack of necessity. The Dutch Association for Justice, the association of judges and prosecutors, even calls the bill superfluous. On the one hand, the Minister who says 'the need lies in the social misunderstanding' and, on the other hand, the conclusion of Erasmus University and all those important organisations who say 'there is no need', we wonder where the balance is. I would like to hear a response from the Minister on this point. The positive thing about this law is the early start of reintegration and the linking of leave with reintegration goals. We also support the fact that the personal approach is given a legal basis. It is also good that the resocialisation of longer-term punished people should focus on five points and that more attention should be paid to aftercare, and hopefully a more successful reintegration. More attention to victims is also a positive element. These elements were reason for my colleagues in the Lower House to vote in favour of this bill. My group is now asking whether these positive elements in the implementation are sufficient. The fact that the emphasis is on the detainee's own responsibility raises the question of whether each inmate is able to do so, including those with psychiatric problems and intellectually limited. Estimates of the number of prisoners with a slight intellectual disability range from 15% to 30%. 60% of the inmates are suffering from mental illness. This group will expect desired behavior and commitment, otherwise they will not advance in the system. This calls for a large and expert commitment from DJI staff and probation staff, and that is something my group is concerned about. On the basis of the information available, my group sees a number of bottlenecks in the implementation of this law: the total recruitment needs of the DJI, the growing dependence on external staff, with all the costs involved, and the training of employees. In 2025 there is a need of 3,400 FTE at the DJI, without the consequences of this law. Can the Minister give an overview of the past few months, taking into account the impact and the expected development of the corona crisis on the recruitment of staff? What are the concrete plans for recruitment, also in the light of this law? To what extent do the more than 10% externals press the cost per cell? Is there enough budgetary space? And can he also include in his reply that 30% of the staff do not have the right qualifications? This is because of the high workload, because because there are shortages, people do not receive training. This week, Reclassing Nederland informed our group that it has serious concerns about its implementation, such as the lack of lower regulation of tasks and division of powers so far, and the lack of clarity as to how and under what conditions leave is granted. There is uncertainty about the alignment with chain partners in terms of responsibilities, ICT systems and work processes. How does the Minister see these bottlenecks? Does he see these at the time of entry into force of this law and, if so, what problems does he himself have in mind? Does he consider it appropriate to introduce this law at a later date if necessary? Reclassification The Netherlands is concerned about the date of 31 May. Then the negative elements. First of all, my group does not see the point and the need to limit VI to two years. If you ask the government for the justification of these two years, it is pointed out that a period of two years will generally be sufficient to accompany and exercise a prisoner who is staying outside the facility under supervision with reclaimed freedoms. This period is consistent with the average duration of the probation period of one and a half to two years, as shown by the Erasmus University research, says the Minister. For my group, the question is very much whether this two-year period is sufficient, even if the reintegration process is started earlier during detention and precisely now that the penitentiary programme for convicted persons eligible for VI is also being abolished. Because the time limit for gradual return to society is shortened on two sides; on the one hand, there is the abolition of the penitentiary programme and on the other hand, the limitation of the vi to two years. We foresee that the maximation will not make the Netherlands safer but more unsafe for two reasons. First of all, many experts point out the real risk, and I have just been appointed that convicted persons are going to show calculating behavior and turn away from the vi in order to be completely out of control. I do not rule out the fact that Volkert van der Graaf had also chosen this option. That's what I just said. It is already happening, in other words, in the long term, that prisoners forgot vi in order to escape supervision and control, but that will only increase by two years, says Reclassing Netherlands, especially among people who have been on it for 20 years. The reclassification is clasp-and-ready. A VI of up to two years is too restrictive for those with a high risk profile. It concludes that society is at risk if this group returns to society uncontrolled and unguided. Not only does the Reclassification point to this risk, but the Public Prosecutor, the NSA and the RSJ, the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection, also point to this real risk. In our group's view, this is justified. The Minister says he does not expect this to happen, but he cannot support that expectation on request. There is only one case known, he says, in which someone has chosen to remain seated, but on what basis does he base it? And is he sure this information is correct? Is he supported in those expectations and if so, by whom? The Minister refers to the Long-Term Supervision Act, which allows the probationary period to be extended. That's right, but that's only possible if someone with a vi gát. If someone doesn't do that, then what? Doesn't someone return to society unprepared and unguided? Precisely that obstinate refusor who didn't cooperate with anything during detention. Is there no danger in that? I'm asking the Minister. The Minister further points out that, unlike today, reintegration activities are already being started early during detention. But if you're talking about the group of involuntary convicts, then those activities will not get off the ground at an early stage either. And then the group that would like to, but can not come along, which fails to show desired behaviour in detention and which therefore does not qualify for vi: what happens with that? The Victims' Aid Fund also expresses its concern about this. Are these convicts coming into society unguided? I'd like a response from the Minister. There is also concern about the DJI's capacity problems. Is there enough time and expertise to get everyone along, the non-willers and the non-cannons? Is this not a wishful thinking of the Minister, who is carrying out firm agreements in the coalition agreement? Is the minister even listening to the field? How does the Minister appreciate these risks? We like to hear it. The Minister admits that he will monitor this and that he will intervene if necessary. How, then, is my group's question? There is a second reason why the two-year vi is not enough. Many experts say that a two-year vi is too short for good reintegration. The current system allows a long vi and long reintegration of up to ten years. That long term is also necessary in the case of long prison sentences, all experts say. Vi is always subject to the general condition that the person concerned does not recur during the vi. In addition, special conditions can be imposed such as bans on contact, bans on areas and so on. During the vi the prisoner is under supervision where he is free to enter society and knows that violation of these conditions can lead to the withdrawal of the vi. A convict walks on the probation leash for a long time. "The vi is a very effective sword of Damocles," according to the advice. Here too, the Minister takes a lonely position, which is not based on research. And here too, he is opposed to the aforementioned organisations. Wouldn't it have been wise for the Minister to listen a little more to the people in the workplace? What does it do to the minister as an important consultative body when the RSJ says that two years are too limited for re-socialization and that it does not serve the security of society? There is another element I would like to point out. As I have just said, this law is expected to bring down the punishments of judges and officers. The Minister says that he does not share that expectation. But here again the question to the Minister on which he bases that expectation and who supports him in it. It is precisely the judges themselves who explicitly point this out through the NVvR and the Court of Justice. The NSA and the Victims' Aid Fund also say that this is a real result. The Victim's Aid Fund also points out that this will lead to disappointment among victims, thus reducing confidence in justice. I can tell you from experience that a judge makes a gross net weighting in criminal terms. If a proven fact gives rise to a prison sentence, the judge is expressly faced with the net custodial penalty to be imposed on the sentenced person. This custodial sentence is then used, thus adding a third vi. It is therefore a misconception that the convicted person receives a third of the prison sentence. The opposite is true: a third vi is added, with a view to re-socialization and reintegration. As I have just said, if a judge considers that an unconditional prison sentence of 20 years is appropriate and necessary, 22 years will be imposed after the introduction of this law, then two years vi will be added, instead of 30 years. The Minister says that this is not the intention, but that is quite incomprehensible. If that were not the case and the sentence remains for 30 years in the given case, that would mean that the sentence would increase by 8 years, which is 36%. That can't be the point, can it? Or is that the case and are we actually talking about the "law heavier punishment and protection"? I'd like a response from the Minister. We welcome the commitment to include this element in the evaluation, but what will the Minister do when that expectation comes true? Is he gonna jump in front of justice or did the judge do it? Then I come to the last fundamental objection. That is the fact that the judge is largely put out of play when awarding the vi. The D.A.'s office is going to decide on this and the judge remains a marginal test as to whether the D.A. could reasonably reach a decision. Again, many organisations are against it. The NOvA, the NVvR, the Council for Justice and again the RSJ are all expressing their opposition to this. We have discussed it in writing, and my group takes the view that this is not in line with the ECHR. We are supported by, among others, the NVvR and also a professor of sanctioning law of the University of Amsterdam, Professor Denis Abels, who shares that concern. The Minister points to Article 22 Criminal Law, where there is also a marginal test in front of the judge. But that is a very different test, because it is a very different matter, namely 120 days in prison. That's of a different order than two years. My group believes that the judge should be able to make a full assessment of deprivation of liberty and not marginal. I'm gonna finish up. Research shows that the system is working well, even in terms of prevention. The Minister is particularly opposed to the general feeling of society. In my group's view, that is not enough. It gives the impression that this is mainly used to control the abdomen. Just when all the advice is as it is, there must be much more to it than this. All experts, people working with this law in practice, are critical about bringing the vi back to a maximum of two years. The emphasis is more on criminal retribution than on resocialisation. Society is not served there. On the contrary. We should not agree in this Chamber to further marginalise the role of the judge in favour of the prosecution, not even at the detention stage. This is de facto two-year deprivation of liberty. In addition, we must ensure that the legislation that passes here is consistent with the Constitution and international treaties. Experts explicitly doubt this. If we get rid of all this, the scale is now turning to the negative elements that are more important to my group. We fear that this will not make our country safer. We look forward to the answer. Then you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mrs Veldhoen. I call Mr Recourt of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u54	It smells fresh in here, Mr. Chairman. The imposition of a prison sentence for bad behavior is always a response from poverty. Hardly anyone gets better, but there is often no other, more appropriate response. The way you treat people in prison then has everything to do with the human image you have. Today, we are talking about a law made by a liberal cabinet, showing a liberal human image of a rational, calculating citizen. With a root and a stick, this law invokes the detainee's own responsibility to adjust his behavior in a positive way. External incentives for good behavior, the sequel, because this axe has been chopped before. My group assumes a different, more positive image of people, namely that most people are good. Even if they've done something that's very, very bad, so inmates. There are exceptions, but people are intrinsically motivated to do the right thing. You have to appeal to them, give them faith and support them. The competences with which you want prisoners to get out of prison, you need to develop from the day of entry. I would like every inmate who leaves prison to be able to shape his life and the corresponding responsibilities and to function socially and socially acceptable, without recidivism. This requires discipline and intrinsic motivation. This does not require calculating behavior and external motivation. Is the law before us today a bad law? No, because there are a lot of positive elements in it. These may be sufficient.... that depends a little on this debate.. to believe in a net improvement in the current situation. The individual approach from day 1 is particularly promising. The structural and early role of municipalities in resocialisation is also good news, as well as identifying the five necessary elements for successful resocialisation. But as so often, the key to success in implementation lies in practice. My group is concerned about whether the practice has time, money and resources to ensure that the law is properly implemented. Resocialisation is a long-term issue and does not stop when the prison doors open. A prison population is not representative of the Dutch population. The number of people with mental disorders, with low IQ, with addiction problems and with psychological damage is large, very large. This leads to short fuses, impotence and inability, quickly pulling off and falling back into old and unwanted behavior. This is familiar and therefore safe behavior for the inmate. Changing this behavior requires an investment in time and quality of guidance for the inmates. An investment that is quickly recouped. A good detention regime, including reintegration path, stands and falls with professional paw'ers, who have the time to make contact with the prisoners and who are physically present on the wing. They're prisoners who aren't sitting behind a closed door for 22 out of 24 hours. Such a regime has an internal and external rehabilitation, which has time and therefore money to be of real significance. It is precisely on these conditions that more and more pressure has been put on in recent years. Can the Minister give my group an example of what an average day of an inmate in an average regime looks like and in particular how many contact moments there are? Is the scope offered by this law to use re-integration with customization from the first day in practice? How much patience can pawsmen and parole officers have with a convict? After all, it is to be expected that socialisation will go down and up, all in the light of the problems that are going on. If falling means "the immediate withdrawal of the acquired possibilities to re-integrate with a less stringent regime," then this is not an effective way. Can the Minister outline the scope for setting standards? Is it recorded within the facility how many chances a person gets? Or is it customization? And how do you prevent behaviorally difficult prisoners from falling out? Is it the decision of one person or the outcome of consultations between several persons involved in the detention? So the key to success lies in the implementation. The first evaluation of the functioning of this law is after five years. I hope that the RSJ will come up with an unsolicited advice if it appears earlier that the rules are good, but the practice cannot give good implementation to this. Mr. Chairman. The practice also determines the success of the decision to involve the victims in the decision as to whether someone is eligible for phase-in detention. I would ask the Minister to give an example of how the victim's opinion is taken into account in the decision. What weight is given to this? Is the opinion always asked? Is information given to the victim prior to the question of opinion? Because if the only question to the victim is whether he is okay with the unsub being released early, this always ends in a disappointment, or for the victim, or for the perpetrator. Here too, a good qualitative interpretation can be of great benefit. If there is room to accompany the victim and if there is room for voluntary and professional guidance to conduct a victim-offender conversation by the end of detention time, much can be won and restored for all parties. This is always particularly true when the victim and offender meet again after detention. In this context, you can ask the victim what it takes for him or her to phase out that unsub again. Thus detention time becomes recovery time, including for the victim. Can the Minister promise that there will be room and money for the structural involvement of agency Perspective or criminal mediators in this part of the law? As has already been said, it is a good thing to involve municipalities in re-socialisation, both structurally and during detention. In practice, this will not be implemented equally rapidly in all municipalities. With information exchange and access to the facility alone, you're not there. The activities that can be carried out with this, such as rapidly leading to debt relief, seem to the municipality to be free of obligation. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that municipalities carry out their tasks quickly? Who signals it if this doesn't happen unexpectedly and what are the possibilities? Then a comment on the most visible part of this law: the change of vi, conditional release. It was announced in the coalition agreement. In part, it is a cosmetic operation, namely the reduction in the duration of the operation. Judges my predecessor said it already look at the imposition of prison time to the time actually spent in prison. It is therefore to be expected that the punishments will be slightly lower as a result of this law. I would ask the Minister to stand straight in front of the justice system now, if the indignation on the right side is also to be expected. The maximum duration of the vi up to two years is not good and contrary to the idea of customization for the prevention of recidivism in long-term punishments. What my group is also concerned about is that people are not eligible for detention as a result of their bad behaviour. What does this do for the safety of society? In his written answer to our questions, the Minister expressed the expectation that this would rarely occur. What is this expectation based on? Can the Minister justify his expectation? I would like to endorse the critical remarks made by my predecessor on this point. This is really a matter of great concern. Mr. Chairman. Also in view of the time: for the transitional right, I would like to pronounce one general standard, namely that apple should not lead to a worse position for the accused. With this recital, I refer to Mr De Blécourt and Mr Dittrich, who I think are going to ask further questions about this. Mr. Chairman. Don't let this law get bogged down in fine words on paper and in no obligation. The people in practice are intrinsically motivated to give content to it. Let's give them that space. After all, you reap what you sow. Let us therefore trust in our prisons and sow humanity on the barren soil of serious crimes and continue to water patiently. The harvest will be rich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then Mrs Bezaan of the PVV will have the floor, but not until after the chair has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u56	Thank you, Mr President. It has been said earlier this evening: this bill will change the length of detention. Thus, the legal right to conditional release after serving two thirds of the custodial sentence is abolished. The conditional release will then be granted for a maximum period of two years, while it is still possible to reduce an 18-year sentence for a serious crime to 12 years. As my colleague, Mr Markuszower of the PVV in the Lower House, said during the debate on this law, this bill is only a tiny step in the right direction compared to the current law. For although the period of early release is limited to two years, that is still two years too many, especially when you see in that light that a perpetrator has been sentenced by the judge to an unconditional prison sentence of 18 years. Unconditionally means: without conditions. Two years earlier, on the basis of the law before us, is, in our view, bizarre, because it does not do justice to the protection of our society, nor does it do justice to the victims of the crime in question or to their families. In this way, the system of early release will also be maintained for the serious criminals. Why didn't the Minister go to jail for the unconditional imprisonment imposed? What are the reasons for this? This new law can also lead judges to anticipate this by imposing lower custodial sentences. It's been said before tonight. That is why my party has been advocating the imposition of minimum penalties for years. Everyone, perpetrator, victim, next of kin, then knows where he or she is. This also immediately puts an end to the agreements that could be made within the judiciary and the public prosecutor on the level of the penalty to be imposed for a particular crime. With the introduction of higher minimum penalties, the problem of judges and prosecutors, who may impose lower penalties or require them, has been solved, and there will also be an end to the polishing of the population. An average citizen assumes that an imposed prison sentence will be served as a whole, but in practice this is far from the case. Mr. Chairman. It is too sad for words that this bill rewards a convicted criminal if he behaves well during his imprisonment. Whatever horrible crime he or she has committed, good behavior is rewarded with a penalty reduction of no less than two years. However, the good citizen who always behaves neatly and does not come into contact with justice is not rewarded. His reward should be that a convicted person doesn't get a penalty discount. This will protect the good citizen for a longer period of time and alleviate the suffering of a victim. Mr. Chairman. Although in 2008 the Early Release Act was replaced by the current Conditional Release Act, which ended on paper the automatism with which convicted persons were released after two thirds of their imprisonment, the PVV was the only political group to vote against that bill at the time in the Lower House. Now what? After about 12 years we get it right on our side. The 2008 law is no good and needs to be replaced. We are not there yet, because the new proposal is not good either, despite the fact that I said it before - it is a tiny step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. It must end with the granting of penalty discounts to criminals. My party has been calling that out for years, and will continue to call it out until this is regulated by law. The aim must be to keep society safe and protect it for as long as possible. I am not talking about boys stealing bread, but about the heavy boys who do not hesitate to rape, murder, or nurse terrible attacks and robberies. Proper and transparent punishment measurement and its implementation are to which citizens and our society are entitled. Mr. Chairman. In that context, I have the following final questions to the Minister. Does the Minister share the view of the PVV that citizens and society have the right to correct and transparent measurement of penalties and their implementation? If not, could the Minister motivate that further? Should the Minister share the said position of the PVV, how can the Minister bring forward a legislative proposal in this form? How is that possible? My final point is that I would like a commitment from the Minister. Within one year of the entry into force of this new law, can he provide a substantiated report showing whether or not this law has led to lower penalties? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. Mrs Bikker has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with the pleasant announcement that I am making this contribution on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. As you can see, that is my privilege. The Punishment and Protection Act we are discussing today is fully concerned with the enforcement of penalties. It is an important task of the government that justice is spoken and implemented when injustice is done; that appropriate punishment is punished and that people can have confidence in the government, including in this regard. This contributes to confidence in the rule of law. Punishment is thus also recovery; restoration of the rule of law. For the same legal order, it is very important that someone does not go wrong again. From just being locked up, few people have been refurbished. The Group of the Christian Union considers it important that prisoners should also be given a new perspective, so that they can actually take advantage of the second chance of life when the punishment is met. That immediately brings me to an important point in this law. The person-oriented approach that has been put in place in recent years is given a legal basis. I welcome that, because it is clear that the most effective prison sentence is one of which treatment and guidance are an important part. I therefore wholeheartedly support this line of action. It is important that DJI, parole and healthcare experts are involved from the start of prison and can get started on this issue. My appreciation on behalf of the Christian Union Group for that choice. The intentions are good. The first means for a more intensive journey have been released and several pilots are already running. Mr President, you feel one but coming, and that is correct. As far as feasibility is concerned, my group still has some serious questions and concerns about which I would like to hear the Minister, and on which I hope I will also be given some assurances. On the one hand, they reflect the position and background of the detainees, on the other hand, on the capacity and qualification for the new duties of the prison staff. In fact, this legislative proposal lays down even more that prisoners themselves take responsibility for the execution of their sentences, for earning additional internal freedoms and, more to the end of the sentence, also for more external freedoms. The parole organisations have also emphasised earlier that the current regulations on this issue see too much in terms of deadlines, at the stages of detention, rather than on desirable behaviour and risk assessment. At the same time, we should not pretend that a prisoner is always led by a rational choice. I think Mr Recourt made the same remark. We have had years of government policy in which every citizen was approached as a rationally elected citizen. We know by now that it doesn't always work that way. In fact, the government tries to relate much more to the findings of the Scientific Council for Government Policy in the report Knowing is not yet doing anything. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is therefore: does this not apply to prisoners to a greater extent? How is it prevented that the person-oriented approach is not particularly successful in that part of the population that was already in the best interest? I am most concerned about the group with a slight intellectual disability. We know this isn't a small group. But I'm also looking at the group with a mental disorder or obstruction. The Minister explained that this could become clear during the screening in the first weeks of prison and that there would be a tailor-made plan: the D&R plan. But if I continue to read and see what is happening in the various prisons, that is that the personal journey is still developing in many places, that the interpretation is still different per penitentiary facility and that the system is mainly geared to the average inmate. Mr. Chairman. We'll take the first step on paper today. That is good, but the real result really has to be achieved in practice. In order to allow the lvb'ers to leave prison better than they did to enter, it is important that there is well-trained staff who have a view of the difference between unwillingness and inability, so that reports can actually show that someone is unable to meet the conditions. This can only be ensured if the facilities are structurally in order. I'd like to ask the Minister to explain how he sees this. I get the impression that those who really have a pivotal role here, the case managers, already have too little time for their basic task. How then can they provide energy and time for the more complex detainees? And how are they trained to do that? What scope do they have, including budget, to involve experts? Mr. Chairman. This is a complex reality, with an effect only to be expected after intensive and skilled guidance. How does the Minister realize that, in a field where staff shortages are high and absenteeism is unfortunately high? Has the classic prison guard been trained to contribute to this? There is still a need to invest in training, time and also finance. I would therefore ask the Minister, in his reply, to make a very clear reference to the question of financing. And do I understand correctly that at this very point, involving parole, care and volunteer organisations in prison from the very beginning is currently running pilots, but that structural embedding in policies and finances should follow after 2021? Mr. Chairman. Not an ugly word from my side about pilots. No, but the point is that they are only useful if they can be properly followed up. How does the Minister ensure that this is adequately organised in all penitentiary establishments? This is a major point for the Christian Union group. I am considering a motion on this point, so that from Princess Day next year it is clear how this will actually be secured. But you know, it's a good use: first we like to listen to what this minister has to offer. I have also seen the Drost/Van der Staaij motion from the House of Representatives about involving voluntary organisations that have built up good expertise in guiding and motivating prisoners. I ask the Minister about the implementation of this motion, and also about the guarantee that these organisations will not be a voluntary extension of the DJI, but that they will be able to carry out the good work they do on their own strength and inspiration. Also, the Minister is committed to accessing this expertise to all p.i.What about the parole organizations? Mr. Chairman. A second important point in the legislative proposal is the adaptation of conditional release. The Christian Union has also expressed on occasion that an imposed sentence must be served and that a conditional release after two thirds of the sentence should not be a right or automatic. We can support that line in the bill. But I still have a few questions on this point too. It is chosen to shorten the conditional release to one third of the sentence, with a maximum of two years. This means that for prisoners with a prison sentence for more than six years, the VI is reduced. I understand that between 100 and 120 prisoners are sentenced to such a custodial sentence every year. In the new system, further to the early release, an extended probation period can be imposed, which is sometimes even unlimited, or which is at least renewed again and again, let's call it neatly. But what if long-term punishment doesn't apply for Vi? The extended probation period and supervision are linked to the provisional release. These prisoners then serve their sentence and return unguided into society. That the calculating inmate can choose this outcome, I find an undesirable situation. The Minister has written several times that he expects this to fall with, but what these expectations are precisely based on, I am very happy to hear. Expectations alone unfortunately do not remove a observed gap. The concerns about calculating behavior are widespread, from the Public Prosecutor's Office to the judiciary, and also the probation is clear about this. These are all the parties that know about the target group we are talking about here. Even if we adopt this law, it will take a while before those harmful effects are visible. But we do not want to drop this gap. I don't suspect the Minister either, but I'd like to hear him confirm how he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u59	You're talking about a hole that can fall if a calculating convict chooses not to go with vi. But I also talked about another group, namely those who do not succeed in getting to the point where they are allowed to have vi. Because in the light of this proposal, someone must always earn their freedom. How do you feel about that group? The group of non-willers, but also the non-cannons, come back into society unaccompanied in this way. How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u60	That is precisely why I made my previous point very explicit, for example with regard to those people with a slightly intellectual disability. But I also said it's a broader group. With them, it's not about unwillingness, it's about inability. Then it comes to good guidance and also to good conclusions about what that means for someone's attitude in prison. I would certainly like to ask the Minister, with you, whether this means that the assessment will then be looked at in a different way. Because then it is clearly established that someone has other abilities to fulfill his prison sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u61	I have also pointed out that a DJI lacks financial resources, that the formation is actually too small and that the training is not quite in order. All this makes my group very concerned that too little attention is being paid to the group you are also concerned about. What should the Minister say or what should the Minister offer you to ensure that you say you are satisfied and confident?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u62	Thank you for this invitation. Together, in the further round, we asked almost the same questions, of course with a different tone, but everyone saw that the content and the concerns were the same. My question to the Minister just now was precisely about this. I understand very well that the Minister says: I want to run pilots first, so that I can really understand what works, what doesn't work and how much manpower and trained manpower that costs. I'm fine with that. And I can imagine that there is still a difference in how that is arranged for each establishment. That is why I have just asked the Minister to come up with proposals for the next round, for the next budget, to be structured in such a way that it is not the forthcoming budget, but the next one. Then we have insight into what's needed. So we know exactly what we need to invest in. But when you start a pilot and when you start this legislation, you say a, and then you have to say b. So I hope the Minister will meet me there. I have already announced, by way of exception, that I have a motion if it isn't. But it's still written in pencil, because I'd like to give the minister a chance to come up with his good ideas first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u63	Mrs. Veldhoen, third? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u64	I hope, of course, that we will continue to work together in our search for ways in which we can also be meaningful to this group. Mr. Chairman. I need to see where I left off. I know I just went to a new spot. The two-year period has also been objected to on several sides. For most prisoners, that will be the deadline for successful reintegration. For people in prison for a longer period of time, it appears that in some cases a longer period is actually needed. There aren't many, but there are a few. Can the Minister explain again why the two years are always sufficient for everyone? Or does he feel with me that there are cases imaginable even more: are known for those who need a longer period of time? And what valve does he have to shape that effectively? I'd like to give him the next direction of thought. I'd like to hear the Minister's response. After all, this is a small group of prisoners for whom all experts within DJI and probation will be well aware in time that the two years are not sufficient. That's gonna be on time. Isn't it possible to build in a test moment for this small group on which probation or other experts within the penitentiary facility can request an extension of the time needed? I'm not concerned with the exact content of my proposal. I am concerned with the direction of thinking to find a small valve for that very small group for whom just a little more time is needed to come to an appropriate conclusion. I would very much like the Minister to have this examined. Once again, it does not have to be settled tomorrow, but it is important in the long term. I would also like to ask the Minister what the effects of the choice will be if he does not do so. I hope he will at some point inform the Chamber of such an investigation. Mr. Chairman. In the current system, the judge decides whether to postpone, suspend or withdraw the conditional release. In the present legislative proposal, that decision-making power lies entirely with the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is certainly a bit of a misunderstanding in our group. Only a marginal checking role remains for the criminal court. What considerations lead the Minister to shift that power? How does he consider the objection of the judiciary and several other experts afterwards that a decision on a withdrawal of the VI is in fact a decision of deprivation of liberty which in our country is reserved for the judge? The Group of the Christian Union is not yet fully aware of the problems of the division of competences that are currently giving rise to the proposed shift, but we are happy to hear it. Mr. Chairman. My third point is the return of ex-convicts to society. Here too, the legislative proposal takes good steps by involving municipalities at an early stage. In addition, there is already an administrative agreement that will give substance to this. The signatures of the municipality, the parole organizations and the minister are underneath. That is good, because this is an excellent joint task. I have seen in the municipality of Utrecht that it makes a great deal of difference when a municipality actually takes up its responsibility and involves the probation and voluntary organizations well, not only for the ex-convicts, but also for society. It is therefore a good thing that municipalities take responsibility. I do have the question how this time all the municipalities really get involved. In previous rounds that went wrong and then you see that for an ex-con it makes a lot of difference where he comes from. What is the Minister's objective in this respect? The same applies to housing. We know that this is just complicated in a lot of municipalities. I would like to thank the Minister for his commitment in the written reply to discuss this with the Minister for the Interior and Home Affairs. I ask him at what time he expects results from this and to share these results with this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. If you sign a signature, you'll get your hopes up. The Minister knows that. That's probably why he doesn't sign anything. He did do that under this board agreement. When I went over it, I missed a financial paragraph. Actually, I've been curious about that. Is that right? What obligations do this impose on the Empire? I assume that the Minister's signature is worth something in this respect. Of course, I'd like to hear about that. Finally, there have been several references to the transitional right and the undesirable effects it has on current criminal proceedings. It has been announced before, but my colleagues De Blécourt and Dittrich will ask for good things. I already know that, and I'm already joining it. I'll come to a conclusion. You will understand that I am also doing so on behalf of the SGP Group. When it comes to the execution of penalties, the government has a heavy responsibility, with the aim of restoring the rule of law, protecting victims' interests and preventing recidivism. My group therefore certainly sees the main line of this bill as a profit, but on a number of points we have our concerns. I am therefore very looking forward to the Minister's answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u65	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I call Mr Rietkerk on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The CDA Group welcomes the treatment of this bill Penalty and Protecting Act, because in our view it serves the credibility and legitimacy of our criminal law and therefore the basis for this. After all, punishments must ultimately be served. Of course that time must be spent; I shall come back to that later. But a punishment of which a third is almost automatically forgiven and which already offers fundamental freedoms in half, gives rise to a great deal of misunderstanding in our society. At the same time, this bill regulates much more than just the shortening of conditional release. For example, the bill is not equivalent to the deletion of early release. It was there when the 18-year limitation period was lifted in the case of very serious offences. Mr Dittrich and I tabled an own-initiative proposal for this in 2002. The proposed initiative removes the limitation period for offences subject to life imprisonment. This proposal has ensured that suspects of serious crimes can still be tried and convicted in more evidence after 18 years. On the other hand, the procedure for dealing with this bill has taken years. The initiative proposal, now Dittrich/Van Haersma Buma, was adopted in this Chamber on 6 September 2005 without a vote. The CDA can therefore agree to the handling of the present legislative proposal. It has been there for a while and the procedure has been long enough as far as we are concerned. As has been said, this bill regulates more than just the shortening of conditional release. Because the period of a convicted inmate is designed differently. From day one, people's behavior is already valued. Mrs Bikker spoke of a personalised approach and I agree with that. A detainee can not only earn more activities, but also get freedoms such as leave and, ultimately, conditional release. Good behavior is rewarded and bad behavior has consequences. Practice now teaches us that people are barely followed for more than two years. This means that the people who are now or have been released are simply given a kind of penalty discount, which does nothing effectively. We do not believe that this is credible. This bill will punish you, and part of it will allow you to work on your return. That's good, too. The latter is an important part of this law. From day one, people will see how you behave. You stimulate, in other words, good behavior. In the end, when someone goes outside, we want it to be looked very critically at how someone behaves, and at some point you're done with that. By the way, the most dangerous prisoners can still have lifelong surveillance. That's also a statement. Then I'm gonna head over to the victim's position. It is good that victims have been given more status in the legislative proposal, also through the Van Toorenburg/Van Wijngaarden amendment. The Minister rightly protects minors, who do not need to be confronted with perpetrators of serious sex crimes, for example. But doesn't the same apply explicitly to the survivors of victims of violence? As far as we are concerned, it should also apply to them that no one can come near. Is there any possibility, through administrative law, of extending the protection of victims by means of a removal obligation or at least a residence ban, even after early release, or, in exceptional cases, of allowing a mayor, through administrative law, to check, in the event of serious crimes of violence and sexuality, whether someone can be forbidden to take down close to the victim, as I call it? Could the Minister, through administrative and/or criminal conditions linked to release, consider whether that could be a solution? Our group is interested in the answer. Mr. Chairman. The CDA group welcomes the fact that conditional release is ultimately shorter and no longer automatic. Of course, we are also aware of the rehabilitating effect of a large conditional release and of the need for a gradual return. There will probably be a very small group that will not be comfortable with anything and that will always be dangerous at the end of the day. That is the current system, but also in the future system. How can we prevent this, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u67	I'm gonna go back. You say that two years is sufficient for guidance and reintegration, but at the same time you say that it must be avoided that, for example, after two years, a sex offender can simply iron down somewhere. But that's exactly possible with the current vi. For example, if someone has six years of vi in this case, you can keep someone on the leash for six years, set conditions and say: you can't live there, you can't work there, you can't use drugs, you have to spend the day. If someone doesn't, the vi can be revoked and someone is just put back in jail. That means that there was already the current legislation. How do you see that in the future? This is just gonna go away. Actually, you're saying, shouldn't we stick to the old one? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u68	I have asked a number of questions about the practice and credibility of the current system with some sort of penalty reduction. You ask me, through the chairman, how I feel about those two years. I will come back to that later, because I have a few questions about that too. In the end, we will come to an agreement with the legislative proposal, partly on the basis of the Minister's answers. You will soon find out from my questions that I will also ask a question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u69	I still have a question to learn from the President, and I have a question to ask about the behavioral effects of the vi. You can keep someone on a leash for six years as it were. If someone doesn't listen to the parole, you can lock someone up, and that's what happens in practice. Do you think that's a good system? What do you think of that? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u70	I just said something about the practice. We have also been able to read back in the documents what the practice is. I'll come back to practice later. When it comes to housing corporations, when it comes to parole and when it comes to penitentiary programmes of the Judicial Institutions Service, I also have a number of objections at the moment to the current system, including in terms of credibility. We'll make a decision. As far as we are concerned, this is a step forward; I have already explained this. But we also have a few key questions to reach a final verdict.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u71	The third, Mrs Veldhoen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u72	Anyway, you want someone to be able to get directions and follow them, for example: you can't live there, you can't work there. I note that it is up to you whether or not you agree that this new law, the Penalty and Protection Act, will lead to a deterioration in the situation as it stands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u73	At the moment, you know the situations of people living in the vicinity of victims, whether in Harderwijk or in other places. You can see that the current system, the current system just doesn't work. And so I would like to ask, as a follow-up to this bill, if the Minister can give some answers, because I have concerns as to whether it will provide some administrative and criminal instruments, for example, for a mayor. It can do that now, but you see that in some places something has to happen first, that then the whole neighborhood is on fire, also literally and figuratively, and that then someone is still being intervened and someone is being removed. I want to avoid that, so I am in favour of a preventive measure through administrative or criminal law. Mr. Chairman. The government supports the maximum two years of early release, inter alia, with the fact that the average duration of the vi-trial period is one and a half to two years. However, I believe that it is also a question from Mrs Veldhoen with a term of imprisonment of six years or more, which could be affected by the maximum time limit. Is it true that the average duration of the vi-test period is higher under this group? And how does the minister judge for the group of long-term punishments that maximum term of two years? Furthermore, the members of the CDA Group wonder how long-term leave and/or leave for extramural work is imposed and what the average duration of leave for extramural work is. The Minister's answer can give us even more clarity, which reduces the need for an unlimited vi. The members of the CDA Group support the possibility that, in the case of serious crimes of violence and violence, the probationary period may be extended several times after the vi. And if the vi is limited to two years and the probationary period after vi is not possible if no vi is imposed, our group sees the risk that these severely punished people will probably be able to refrain from vi. The government notes that this is not common, but the period of validity is not currently limited to two years. The severe punishments that forsake vi then have no vi and no probation after vi, while the severe punishments need more guidance when returning to society. This was also the subject of previous political groups. In the light of this, what does the Minister consider to be the effect of the bill on the recidivism of this group? And what does that then mean for the probation, for the housing corporations and the municipalities concerned; in other words, for the chain partners? In what way can the Minister encourage improvements in behaviour and request re-evaluation in such cases? This is in order, of course, to prevent the release of convicts without parole, because that is a shared concern. The CDA also calls for attention to be paid to victims of serious crimes. Wouldn't judges impose longer penalties in the context of proportionality in relation to the seriousness of the crime, with the expectation that the vi will occur less frequently and last less long? This is a bit along the lines of what I just asked. This would affect the victim's interest, which we consider important, and the risk of recidivism during detention could no longer have a negative impact on the crime. In our view, then, there is tension on the basic principles of this bill. My question to the Minister is: how do you see this development? Then the D.A.'s office. The current figures in the explanatory memorandum show that the prosecution is not always going to the right end. The percentages are indicated: in 12% to 24%, the court dismissed an application for failure to comply, and 3% to 8% of the claims were dismissed as inadmissible. Even in the case of withdrawal, you still see that: around 25% of the claims are rejected. And the convicted person may, in the new system, appeal to the court against the decision of the Public Prosecutor not to grant conditional release or to partially revoke the conditional release. In the current system there is earlier intervention by the judge or judge commissioner in these proceedings. The CDA Group has a supplementary question on this. From this point of view, it follows that only a court can rule on deprivation of liberty on the basis of a legal basis. In the case of vi, of course, a judge has already ruled that someone is being locked up. But our group is asking the government to explain, and whether it can well support, here in this Chamber too, that the fact that in these cases the public prosecutor alone decides whether or not to grant and withdraw the VI can pass a test on the ECHR. Then we look further at the figures of the D.A.'s office and then we see that I already indicated that almost a quarter, about 25%, is misjudged. If those figures are true, I'll ask the Minister. And if those figures are correct, I'll ask the Minister what the Cabinet is doing in this situation. Are you satisfied with that, or do you have a target, a percentage, to bring that down significantly? What are the Minister's thoughts on this? And if this 25% of cases remain a trend in the new system, then 25% of cases will be settled on the basis of an incorrect assessment, without judicial intervention. Only after an appeal has been lodged with the judge can the convicted person be proved right. And when you consider that the vi only lasts two years, the CDA Group wonders whether it offers sufficient access to justice. If the defendant then submits an objection to the court, the court will examine the decision of the prosecution on a marginal basis; others have already spoken about it. The judge will therefore not make a completely new assessment, but simply check whether the public prosecutor has reached a reasonable decision. Then how about at times when the D.A. comes to a decision on the basis of wrong facts, I ask the Minister. I would also like to join Mrs Bikker's questions for a short time. In the reply of 15 January, I see that questions have already been asked about this. I thought that was done, among other things, by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Christian Union. In short, the answer is that these guarantees of the ECHR do not apply, because the 'vi' regime is part of the implementation process. Are the ECHR and the ECHR not too lightly assessed? Can the Minister explain once again the fact that the only decision of the Public Prosecutor is to decide, for example, on withdrawal here in this debate? Finally, the chain and the transitional right. P.O.D. indicated that the implementation now shows that lifelong supervision is complicated if one is not released on parole at all, not even a day. When we say to each other that dangerous people must have lifelong supervision, we need to see how we can also shape this in implementation. The CDA draws attention to the allocation of tasks to the chain partners, for example to the municipalities and the probation. From the point of view of practice, I hear that ex-convicts often fall between shore and ship or threaten to fall into service. No one really felt responsible for that. Can the Minister undertake, on behalf of the Government, that there will be sufficient resources, knowledge and skills at the Judicial Institutions Service, the municipalities and also the probation? And can the Minister also make a commitment in line with Mrs Bikker's questions on how he sees the sustainable support of pilots, which are always needed? The CDA also attaches great importance to a clear response from the Minister on this point. Mr. Chairman. There are quite a few details in the bill. We have the old system, which has been running for a long time, and soon the new system. The CDA Group wants to know from the Minister how to ensure that the prison system can handle this and that we have penitentiary programmes that are still running in the old way and not in the new way. How's the Minister handling that? The transition from old law to new law also calls for attention. I understand that, among others, Mr Dittrich and Mrs De Blécourt will also comment on this. For the sake of clarity, we shall, in any case, close our questions to that point. Our group is concerned that the chain partners and certainly the prison system should know and recognise the combination of the old and the new system and be able to communicate clearly about it, both inside and outside. Please explain the Minister's point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mr. Rietkerk. I call Mrs De Blécourt-Wouterse on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mr. Chairman. In my group's view, punishment and protection brings a number of desirable changes. However, the VVD Group also has a number of comments, starting with the desired changes. First of all... Under current law, offenders only have to serve 66% of their sentence and then they are automatically released under the law. The period of conditional release may be up to ten years, which means a ten-year deduction from the sentence imposed. If the law is passed, perpetrators with penalties of more than six years under the amended law must actually serve a much larger part of their sentence. That does better justice to punishment and does better justice to retribution. Moreover, this 66% under current law means that if someone has committed a more serious crime, he or she will be released relatively faster than someone who has committed a less serious crime. The VVD Group considers this to be a looming error in the current law. If punishments and protection are passed, prison sentences of more than six years instead of a percentage nominally shorten the length of detention and thus fix that loom error. The VVD Group asks the Minister why a maximum of two years of vi has been chosen. Why not shorter? The average probation period is one and a half to two years. Then why wasn't it chosen for a year and a half? Second. If the law is passed, a detainee must legally work from the first day in prison to prepare for his return to society, on the basis of a personal detention and reintegration plan. Leaves for short-term leave, long-term leave or leave for extra-mural work are linked to a specific reintegration objective: finding work, working for a stable family contact or, for example, following training. The prisoner himself will be jointly responsible from the first day in prison for working on a successful return to society. He or she understands from the first day that he or she must participate in a return to that society. In short, you could say that the inmate under the amended law must go to jail from day one on the basis of the D&R plan, to earn freedoms inside and outside the prison and ultimately the vi as it were. The detainee's own responsibility plays a greater role, and that is what my group is appealing to. That thought of own responsibility fits as part of the implementation of the D&R plan according to the VVD Group a self-evaluation of the inmate, and preferably a 360 degree evaluation, whereby the inmate puts himself past the benchmark of the plan and asks for input from, for example, co-inmates or his or her mentor. My group would like to ask the Minister how he looks at this. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has a number of questions to the Minister about this D&R plan and the detainee's own responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u76	I hear Mrs De Blécourt describe the prisoner as a kind of business entrepreneur who has to apply critical market mechanisms to his own functioning. But does Mrs De Blécourt realize that many prisoners are not so capable of doing so? They're mostly people with low IQs. We've all heard it with psychological damage, with addiction problems. Why does the VVD want to apply principles of business to people who are not in business, but who need to be resocialized?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u77	A very good question, thank you very much. I would like to respond to that as follows. In the end, the prisoner must go back to that society and he or she may have to go back to business as well. Then he's good at practicing. Moreover, co-responsibility also includes looking at yourself, reflecting and cooperating on that plan. So that's exactly how my group thought it would add a social component, but I'll come back on all your other points later. So, Mr. Chairman, perhaps I could ask Mr. Recourt to wait for that. If that is not sufficient, he can ask his question afterwards. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has a number of questions to the Minister about this D&R plan and the detainee's own responsibility. How is it ensured that the D&R plan is carefully prepared and respected? Is there enough human strength for that? How is it ensured that there is coordination between the different prison directors to ensure that there is no arbitrariness and that there are too great differences between the prisoners in the different prisons? How is it ensured that, although there is a personal plan, there will still be equal cases treated equally? Mr President, the VVD asks the Minister whether it would not be more legitimate and cost-effective to set up a national committee to draw up the personal D&R plan instead of multidisciplinary consultations and the prison director. Furthermore, my group considers it important that differences are respected. In this context, we ask the Minister whether this is taken into account, for example, by setting the entrance level against the desired final level in the personal D&R plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u78	A question about the national committee that you are proposing. The starting point of the bill is to provide customization, so to sit down in a particular establishment with a concrete inmate. If you are going to regulate that nationwide, isn't there going to be a huge bureaucracy and delay? I assume the VVD won't agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u79	Very good question. In the VVD's view, that national point could monitor equal treatment. You could imagine, for example, that the warden is sitting with a prisoner and that there's a test moment there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u80	All these cases may differ, and then the national committee will have to look at all these situations in order to assess whether they are more or less the same. That is an enormous burden, and what exactly is that going to solve? What kind of problem is this gonna solve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u81	It solves the problem that you're going to treat equal cases unequally. There's got to be some test on that that's not under the plan right now. I'm going back to my lines. In this context, we ask the Minister whether it will be taken into account, for example, by setting the entry level against the desired final level in the personal D&R plan. The VVD Group asks the Minister to include this last point explicitly in the evaluation of this law. Mr. Chairman. This question is also linked to the fact that some of the prisoners are unable to come along. We have already heard that from more colleagues and that some of the prisoners have an intellectual limitation. It is good that self-responsibility is paramount, but then the prisoner must have the capacity to work actively on his own development. Will those who do not or do not have enough be accompanied, and will they have sufficient human capacity to do so? And is there any attention to building trust between the mentor and the inmate, for example, in order to actually help the inmate with the implementation of the plan? I understood from the interest organisation for inmates Bonjo that that trust is of great importance to a prisoner for a good return to society. If the Law punishes and protects, no automatic vi will be granted. Vi will be granted on the basis of the individual assessments of the convicted person. That assessment shall be based on three criteria, including the interests of victims and survivors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u82	I heard you say a few times that there was automatic vi. I'm going to quote the Erasmus University report anyway. That is precisely where one of the conclusions is that there was a fear that there would be automatic application. Researchers say that in general it is unfounded. On the basis of the information available to the accused, from different sides, it is assessed on a case-by-case basis whether the application of vi is appropriate and, if so, what conditions should be imposed. No link has been found that it deviates from the intention of the legislator. So now there is no automatic vi. Can you respond to that? Because I hear you say it a number of times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u83	It is true, only the law provides an automatic vi, but in practice it is not granted automatically in all cases. That's what you're saying. The VVD group likes it so much that it now also gets a legal basis, dressed with the personal D&R plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u84	Yes, you say it's some kind of codification of existing practice. Is that what Mrs. De Blécourt says, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u85	Well, I'm not saying that entirely, because now the law says it's automatic. The D.A.'s gonna have to ask for vi. Now it is the other way around and the prisoner will have to earn the vi, which the VVD thinks is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u86	Mrs. Veldhoen, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u87	We agree that there is now a decision by the D.A. whether or not to revoke the VI. So it's not automatic at the moment, so this is a decision. Am I getting that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u88	You can see that, only the law says otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u89	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u90	And the vi is now a privilege and not a right to finish. Mr. Chairman. The VVD has understood that the victim's position on the balance of interests plays a role and the advice of the Judicial Institutions Service, the Reclassification Service and possibly the Advisory College vi. The D.A. is ultimately responsible for this. The VVD asks the Minister to undertake to specifically include this balance of interest in the evaluation of this legislation. The VVD asks for the evaluation to take a specific look at what has been done with this balancing of interests with regard to the victims and survivors and other third parties. The Minister mentioned children and other examples. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group also has reservations about the law and has the following questions. If the law is passed, the maximum duration will be two years. Because from day one work is being carried out on the person-oriented rehabilitation plan, that duration of up to two years seems sufficient. After all, long before these two years of vi enter, a return to society is being worked on. The VVD Group would like to ask the Minister to confirm this and give his views on it. The VVD Group asks whether there is legislation in the neighbouring countries where there is a maximum duration for vi from which we could conclude that two years is sufficient in conjunction with that personalised plan. Second. If the law is passed, the calculating inmate could choose not to behave or not to accept vi. In that case, he or she is in prison for two years longer, but he or she is not at risk of prolonging the vi in which he or she is still being watched. Other colleagues have already indicated this. The Minister has indicated that, on the basis of past experience, he considers that risk to be very small. My group asks the Minister to explain this further. Third. The D.A. will take the decision on granting the vi, the condition under which and the withdrawal of the vi under the amended law, should it be adopted. The judge still has the final say in reviewing the decision following a complaint by the prisoner. According to the consultation opinion, the D.A.'s position is positive. However, the D.A. has reservations that the D.A. is still being given an opportunity to give its opinion on the impact analyses produced and the related financial intentions. The VVD Group asks the Minister what he intends to do with the reservations made by the Public Prosecutor. And the VVD Group asks the Minister what the status of the request is and what its consequences may be. Does the Minister consider the intended date of entry into force of the Law to be realistic in the context of the request made by the Public Prosecutor? If the conditions under which the VI has been imposed by the prosecution are not complied with, the prosecution may order the arrest of the prisoner and the prosecution may decide on the withdrawal of the VI. Under the current law, the D.A. claimed the suspension of the VI and decided on the court commissioner. The VVD sees in the proposed amendment the risk of the butcher who adopts his own meat. Can the Minister reflect on that? The VVD has a question about the transitional right. This has already been mentioned by a number of colleagues. The Law punishes and protects judgments and judgments handed down after the law enters into force when the law is passed. Mrs Ficq and her colleague argue that the law should apply to acts committed after entry into force rather than to judgments and judgments handed down after entry into force. We understand that call. It prevents prisoners from being able to calculate and suffer a disadvantage in appeal. The right to appeal could be undermined. It could also be argued that the rules of the game are being changed. The VVD asks the Minister for his views on the proposal to make the Law punish and protect apply to acts committed after the entry into force of the law. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group considers it important for long-term punishments to be adequately prepared for their return to society. The behavioral and freedom-limiting measure, the CSM, Article 38z, allows supervision and supervision of those inmates. However, it has been found that the CSM's reputation could be increased. At the beginning of 2020, a proposal was presented by several implementing organisations on how to achieve this. The VVD Group would like to ask the Minister if he can promise the VVD Group that he will keep the First Chamber informed of his discussions with the organisations in the criminal justice chain on the application of the GVM. Mr. Chairman. That's how I get to the end of my first term. The VVD Group looks forward with interest to the Minister's reply to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mrs De Blécourt. I call Mr Janssen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u92	Mr. Chairman. What is that about these legislative proposals, as has happened many times in recent years, that the name must seem to be decisive and tough? Punishment and protection: putting penalties first. But we're talking to the Secretary of Law here, aren't we? Protecting what needs to be protected must be the primary objective as far as the SP is concerned, and penalties can be a means of achieving that goal. We sincerely ask ourselves: why do we always do this fake tough thing by putting the punishments first again in the name of this bill? Does the Minister share the view of the SP Group that protection is the aim and that punishment can be a means of doing so? Mr. Chairman. Combating relapses is preventing victims. This adagium of the SP will sound familiar to the Minister: protecting prevents it. And maybe that would have been a better name for this bill: protecting and preventing. That is what this is all about. And what is seamlessly in line with the bill of protection and prevention, that is what I call it for a moment, the Minister's ambition is to start working with prisoners from day one. It is good that the Minister of this long-cherished and pronounced desire of the SP is now saying that he is going to work. I believe that the motions and amendments that have been adopted in the House of Representatives have been able to significantly improve the legislative proposal. On the subject of motions for resolutions, I would like to point out that the Minister's letter of 18 December 2019 on the implementation of the adopted motions shows that the way in which the motions were carried out is rather economical, and that implementation is so crucial. Let me clarify two motions and ask for further clarification. First the motion of SP and GroenLinks, Van Nispen/Van den Berge, under no. 21. That motion calls for an annual report on the progress made on the measures taken to improve the reintegration of detainees and to involve very important staff members. The Minister's answer is, I quote: 'I shall respond to this request by reporting on it in the annual progress reports to be sent before the summer on my vision of prison sentences and taking this issue into account in the research programming of the WODC'. Kind of reminds me of my driver's time. But, as I say to the Minister, the motion asks for factual information from practice and not for the Minister's views on it. That may be a misunderstanding, but my question is whether the Minister is going to provide the information requested and therefore clearly, as a separate point, clearly to be found and sufficiently factually. Can the Minister promise that this will happen? My next question is where will this motion take place in the WODC's research programme? In our view, it is not an option to wait for the evaluation after five years. If we need to intervene sooner, we need to be able to do so sooner. Secondly, the motion by SP and CDA, the motion by Mr Van Nispen/Van Toorenburg, under No. 23. The motion calls on the government to ensure that all prisoners are offered employment and that, in principle, work is an integral part of the daily programme, in view of the proposed change in the right to work. In response to the motion adopted, the Minister says that every p.i. complex work is available. I think that's important, but then I'm gonna ask for a more detailed explanation. Do I understand correctly that the Minister writes: in every p.i. complex there is work available, so that every inmate can also work? This except on medical grounds or detainees in arresting regime, as indicated by the Minister himself. The fact that prisoners have to work to get a working rhythm again is beyond question for the SP. That's the way it is in the ordinary world outside, so it's important that this is done properly. That is why I would like a clear answer from the Minister on this point: any p.i. complex can be laboured. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a short list of compliments. Compliments to the Minister for the basis for sharing data on the basic conditions housing, income and care; indispensable for a person to be able to become fully part of society again. The exchange of information in the chain between the penitentiary institution, the municipality and the probation for the preparation of the detention and reintegration plan is also good. The same applies to the exchange of information on a convicted person between the director of an establishment, the minister, the municipality, the probation, the prosecution and the police, if there is a risk that the convicted person will again commit a serious violence or sexual offence. If there is a real risk, the parties are even obliged to exchange information, but we believe that it is necessary to take a preventive view of whether the practice is going to be directed towards it and whether we should not re-establish that it is not being properly implemented on the basis of regrettable incidents. As far as we are concerned, this is therefore a matter of dampening the well before the calf drowned and not only after. How will the Minister ensure that this obligation is known to the whole chain, but above all that it will be fulfilled? I would like a response from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. The possibility of compulsory removal as an additional special condition for conditional release will be welcomed by many victims and next of kin. That's good, too. Also keeping the very limited secure departments open is the right choice. Recurrent figures from establishments with a limited or very limited level of security show that they are achieving results. The SP is also satisfied with the letter of amendment, which, after previous rejection, keeps an eye on conditional release, and which means that with that firm stick behind the door, which we consider so important, we can still work towards a gradual return to society with an approach aimed at combating recidivism. That's what I'm saying again. Mr. Chairman. The prison staff as a cornerstone of the Minister's plans; that would be very nice, but that should not be a paper solution. Then there must also be genuine listening to those employees. Employees are already under great pressure of time. And what is the outcome of this motivating attitude which the Minister is looking for? How is the Minister going to provide enough people, who have enough time in practice? Does the Minister share the view of the SP that training is an essential part of being well prepared for the task of these employees? If so, will the Minister say here once again very clearly and clearly that there too in the schedules in the p.i.Is it necessary to take sufficient account of this and that this is not a baby that is being held back? That's crucial. If we don't do that, we'll put the horse behind the cart. The practice must be right and not just the story on paper. I would like a clear statement from the Minister on that point. Mr. Chairman. How will the minister, in a broader sense, live up to his intentions and the promises he makes with this bill? How's he gonna structurally secure all this? Is this structured? The same applies to the important role of probation. After all, you do not hire people on the basis of occasional money; we have learned that in the corona crisis. Mrs Bikker also asked for this on behalf of the Christian Union and the SGP. I will come back to that later. This also applies to the municipalities: does this get the attention of the municipalities, even in the financial sense, which is needed to make this bill work in practice? As a result of the corona crisis, all the measures they have to take already indicate that they are above their financial capabilities; these signals reach us every day. With all due respect, the now divided few hundred million will not help. And then there's this. How's the secretary gonna bail this out? Does he also see this as a threat to the success of his intentions in this bill? How did this get done at the state's attorney's office? More tasks, more money? Or solve yourself with other measures? I'd like a response. In short, how does the Minister ensure that what was conceived behind the offices in The Hague and decided in the Chambers becomes reality? Mr. Chairman. The pros and cons of conditional release have already been said and asked a great deal, also extremely critically. For example, colleagues Veldhoen and Recourt spoke in particular about the foreseeable risks that it might become more unsafe in practice. That's what all partners point out. The SP explicitly sees the conditional release as part of the punishment, not as a favor or privilege to the inmate in order to be released under conditions. The conditional release serves the security of all of us. But experimenting with such a crucial part of our criminal law, and in doing so bewildering the warnings of chain partners, makes the SP currently have serious doubts about this part of the law in practice. On the other hand, I have expressed all my concerns about implementation. It is with that that we, the SP Group, are very concerned about the feasibility of this legislative proposal as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u94	Mr. Chairman. The American writer Stephen King wrote a book in 1983 which was later filmed as The Shawshank Redemption. It's an Oscar award-winning classic prison movie. The story deals with themes such as inter-relations between prisoners and guards, atrocities behind bars and abhorrence of people who have been locked up for long years. In this American prison, the main character, Morgan Freeman, says in the film at some point: "Incarcerated walls have something remarkable. First you hate them, then you get used to them, and after a long time you become dependent on them." Mr. Chairman. In 1974 and 1975 I worked with other students in Columbus, Ohio, as a volunteer in a prison for long-term punishment. The image from The Shawshank Redemption matches my experiences. Prisoners were imprisoned for years without meaningful activities and without prospects for a meaningful life after prison. How different is the Dutch prison system, and how much better can it be if the proposals we are discussing today enter into force? Starting point is to deliver customization to prisoners through a personal approach, with the aim of returning to society in a good way. The D66 Group supports this basic idea. A punishment that has been imposed has a retribution element, but it must, of course, also make sense for society and for the inmate. We know that the relapse rate is about 50%. It is therefore important that time in prison is used well. The more we invest in customization and personal attention for the inmate, the greater the chance that there will be no recurrence. In this final debate, I would just like to comment on some of the main points of the legislative proposal. The first is the emphasis on the detainee's own responsibility and his behaviour, because good behavior gradually gives him more freedom rights; first within the walls and later outside. This approach is supported by the D66 Group, but it stands or falls with how the officials in the system work with the detainees, as has already been said by others. And that's an awful lot of officials. I would just like to mention them very quickly: those who do the screening and selection procedure on entry, those who draw up the intention and reintegration plan with the inmate, the case manager, the mentor, the care officer, the reintegration centre in which also municipal officials can participate, the aftercare coordination, not to mention the probation staff, and the Multidisciplinary Consultation. No doubt I forgot some officials. But what is important is that they work together in a good way within the prison walls, but also with all the services outside the prison that the prisoner has to deal with at a later stage. We know that 30% of the executive staff do not have the right qualifications. I would like to hear from the Minister how the consultation with the works council on the re-examination of diplomas has ended and how we are dealing with internal growth within the prison walls. There were dozens, if not hundreds, of vacancies at the Justice Department. I would like to hear from the Minister how they are being filled. Does the Minister expect it to be easier to find suitable candidates in the corona and postcorona era? The question is also how to hold on to staff when the economy is hopefully going to attract again. Is there a policy of diversity and inclusiveness in filling vacancies? We know it's hard for bicultural students to find internships. Is there a programme at DJI to offer internships as a government employer and to deploy volunteers on a large scale and structured basis, as agreed in the government agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u95	I have a brief question for Mr Dittrich. He's excited about the plans being presented. He quickly said something about the 50% relapse rate. What do you think of the 50%? Do you think that's unacceptable? What's your standard? Do you think the new law could bring that down to 40%, 30% or 20%? Can Mr Dittrich tell us anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u96	I'd love to. I think 50% is too high; it has to go down. I am not going to mention percentages here, but I think that this bill with the instruments it offers, and if it is properly implemented in practice, I will come back to that further in my speech if you offer customised work and if you can sort of take care of the prisoner and finally control them outside the prison walls through all kinds of measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u97	So you can't actually tell us what your standard is for when things get better? So you have no idea if it can go to 30% or 20%? Is that all a black box for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u98	College Cliteur, I can mention all kinds of percentages, but for that I would actually like to see how this bill is going to work out in practice. We'll have an evaluation for that in five years. I hope it goes down considerably, but it would be a blow in the air to say from this Chamber that it should be 30%. Because if it doesn't, then what? We just need to make sure that this bill, which is put together on paper on a number of parts, gets hands and feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u99	Mr. Cliteur, your third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u100	It is a pity, however, that optimism does not translate into anything of a percentage. I understand that it is difficult to predict from the Knight's Room what that will be, but it is difficult to reconcile with optimism about the plans if you do not really know how that will work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u101	Thank you for stressing optimism in this way, because I have now come to the point of being a little less optimistic about the plans. Maybe that's gonna appeal to you, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u102	I'm also gonna go for what you're saying about the recidivism rate. You say that 50% is too high for me and I am confident that it will go down with this bill. But that is precisely not what the probation and the Council for Criminal and Youth Protection are saying; they fear that this is not the case and that it is making it more unsafe. What do you expect it to go down on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u103	I base that expectation on the measures announced in the bill. Some of them are already experimenting, so it's not totally new. I think it can work very well. Moreover, I note that some of the letters from the organizations you refer to were written before the bill was dealt with in the Lower House. After that the bill was amended with a number of motions; Mr Janssen mentioned a few. Some of the letters we have in front of us are watching for a somewhat older version of the bill than we are discussing in the Upper House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u104	Then I would like to remind you that I have been in contact with parole organisations this week and that I have asked how they are looking at this law. It was said that we still find these two years very worrying, given the recidivism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u105	I understand that you are raising that point. I'm going to say something about that later; I'm not there yet. But those two years at the conditional release is one of the issues that the D66 group also has concerns about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u106	Mrs. Veldhoen? Thank you, Mr. Dittrich, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u107	Mr. Chairman. The Public Prosecutor's Office will also be given new tasks. My question, and I agree with previous speakers, is: is there sufficient capacity and sufficient budget for this? Can the Minister tell us all that again here tonight, or tomorrow? The five basic conditions for a good return to society are central: identity document, work, care, debt relief and shelter. Many interventions are aimed at this. In preparing for the examination of this bill I went to the Penitentiary Institution Middelburg. I have spoken there with the staff and with the prisoners, and I note that, as previous speakers have said, the prison population is very diverse. There are people with a slight intellectual disability, people with behavioural problems, people who are low-literate, people who experience a lot of stress, people who have addiction problems. There are prisoners who resign themselves to prison and try to make the best of it, but there are also prisoners who do not want to cooperate at all. In short, there are a lot of differences. That is why tailor-made work is essential. How does the Minister see the position of all those groups in prison that I just mentioned? Because all the possibilities offered here also apply that knowing is not always doing. How are the interventions applied in such a way that those who are lagging behind can benefit from the proposed system? Mr. Chairman. I found it a bit difficult, going through all the pieces, to find out exactly what all the detailed arrangements and general measures of governance are that still need to be presented. The Minister announces a great deal in all documents. I would just like to mention very quickly the measure which regulates the exchange of information between the establishment, the municipality, the parole board, the ggz and other authorities, but also the scheme which temporarily leaves the establishment, the Rtvi. Then there is the weighting framework of victim interests, which would be ready in April of this year. The risk screener would also be ready by April 2020. An evaluation of the experiment with the care coordinator would be presented as well as all kinds of results from other experiments. My question to the Minister in this debate is: can you give an overview of all the relevant arrangements that are still coming and a timeline with when to expect them? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to say the longest word I've ever seen: data protection impact assessment information. It's one word. It doesn't fit on the scrabble board, we counted. It's really weird. Anyway, the point is that there's going to be a record of the inmate's personal information, including information from the victim. The victim also receives personal information from the prisoner in his or her file. I have the next question. How can we be sure that personal data is handled prudently? Can the Minister assure us that this exchange of information will work well in practice? Is this point also specifically involved in the evaluation? Speaking of the evaluation, can the Minister say again what subjects he considers should be taken into account in this evaluation? Then I come to the part of the legislative proposal that is the most difficult for the D66 group: conditional release and transitional right. So far, the system that a prisoner may be eligible for conditional release after serving two thirds of his prison sentence. But the bill is about the helm. The Minister proposes that the VI be reduced to two years from now. This means, as has already been said, that in the case of prison sentences of six years or more, there is an effective increase in penalties. I agree with the critical questions raised by previous speakers on this two-year period, but I would like to concentrate in my speaking time on the transitional right under Article 4 (3). It states that decisions of the court or court before the date of entry into force of the law continue to be governed by the old regime. This means that every court decision will be dealt with under the new transitional law after the entry into force of the law, even if the first ruling has been made under the old regime, but an appeal has been made and an appeal under the new regime has been made. You're gonna have a weird situation. For example, a person sentenced to 18 years in prison can take into account that he could be released after 12 years. But a person whose case was dealt with just after entry into force, depending on his behaviour during detention, can only meet a vi after sixteen years. That's a four-year difference. I believe that this can lead to unrest in prison. Two inmates convicted of the same type of crime could be in one hallway. One could have been convicted just before entry into force and one just after entry into force. Then there's a huge difference in effectively serving time. The law firm Ficq sent the First Chamber a letter of fire on May 27th. It also pointed out that there were additional problems with the proposed transitional right when the date of the judgment was decisive. The verdict may be postponed for reasons the defendant has no influence on at all. Moreover, a suspect may no longer withdraw his appeal after the case has been dealt with pro forma. If the decision on appeal falls after the fall of the date of introduction, this simply means a year's imprisonment longer than the other one in terms of detention years. D66 has already pointed this out in the written documents. The regulation of the transitional right may affect the defendant's procedural position. They may, for fear of having to spend so much longer in prison, decide not to pursue an appeal. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Maar dat is niet zoals het zou moeten zijn.]] Such a forced choice of non-appeal would appear to be contrary to the guarantees of a fair trial, as provided for in Article 6 of the ECHR. If this part of the law were to continue, in full form, I would foresee procedures that would eventually be settled at the European Court of Human Rights. It is better to prevent it from coming to this point. The Minister stated in the reply that it would probably not be as rapid as this, and he estimated that those convicted would not look at the transitional law if they had to consider whether they would go on appeal or in cassation. But what is this assessment based on? In criminal law practice, lawyers have very different experiences. So I'd like an answer from the Minister. So what exactly is the solution? Advocate General Ficq proposes that the starting point in Article 4 (3) should be the date on which the proven fact was committed. If it has been committed after entry into force, the new system should apply. If not, then that of before. So the proposal seems to have the charm of simplicity. My group believes that this is a very interesting proposal. We believe that it is less risky in Europe at the European Court than the date of the ruling, as the Minister suggests. Even though this type of long prison sentence is not very common to the Minister about 100 per year, I think that we should make an effort to provide an adequate solution for these prisoners. My question to the Minister is: how does the Minister view this? What can he do to meet our concerns? Then there is a single word about the Public Prosecutor's Office, which now has the power to judge the Vi and not the judge. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats does not think that is very obvious. We believe that judges are better equipped to do so. Can the Minister say again why he chose this system, which excludes the judge? I'm almost ready for completion. A lot has been said about how judges will be punished. I know from my own experience that there are judges who say: we are indeed looking at what comes out effectively. That's where they're gonna base the punishment they're gonna impose. But there are also judges who say: "I do not care at all about the legal system: I will see if the fact that is being charged has been proven. Is the defendant criminal and guilty and what punishment do I consider appropriate?" He is also disregarding what is regulated in the legal system. I think we will have to wait and see how judges are going to behave, but my question to the Minister is: will he, in consultation with the Council, keep an eye on the case law and include this aspect in the evaluation of the law? All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. I started with the movie The Shawshank Redemption. That was a Hollywood movie from the nineties, with an overrepresentation of black men who had been locked away for years. In the meantime we see that changes are blurring due to the attention that Black Lives Matter, among other things, gives to racism in America. Police budgets are transferred in some American cities to social projects to combat addiction and unemployment, for example, and for debt relief. These are all subjects that we in the Netherlands must constantly pay attention to. This bill also highlights these issues, in order to ensure that a person who has committed a criminal offence and has been sentenced to prison can be taken up and can work on a proper return to society from day one. In short, on paper much of what the bill regulates sounds promising, but I really hope that it will work out in practice as well. I also hope that the Minister will address the concerns of the D66 Group. Then, in the second term, we will, as we should, make our final assessment of whether we will support this bill or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing in the First Chamber the Law on Penalty and Protecting the Amendment of the Penalty Code, including on conditional release, the vi. This change in the vi regime is the result of the coalition agreement Trust in the future of the Rutte III cabinet, in which this intention is already mentioned on page 5. The starting point of the law is the automation of the penalty discount which is actually to be removed from the law. In this respect, the Netherlands also ran out of pace with our neighbouring countries. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes the intention to stop automatically handing out penalty rebates. However, we wonder whether this law will in practice produce the desired result. It has already been recalled by Mr Dittrich, among others. I've also seen the movie he was talking about a number of times. Very touching indeed, but the difference with America is, of course, that in the Netherlands only 100 penalties per year are handed out for more than six years. This is a different order of magnitude than in the United States, relatively speaking. In practice, judges, of course, also take into account the phenomenon vi when determining the level of penalties. This has already been mentioned by previous speakers. Our group therefore sees the risk that, especially in the case of serious crimes such as murder and manslaughter, rapes, serious crimes of violence and terrorist offences, this new law may in practice impose lower penalties than before in order to compensate, as it were, for the strengthened vi-regime resulting from the new law, especially since minimum penalties are lacking in the Dutch system. How does the Minister think, through the President, that this phenomenon will manifest itself in legal practice? Mr. Chairman. When I read through the government agreement on the intentions in the field of Justice and Security, I also saw the passage exactly above the cabinet's intention to adapt the vi-regime. I am now quoting from the coalition agreement. This is literally above the point about vi: "The commitment of the cabinet is to increase the willingness to report, to increase the clarification rate and to shorten the lead times. The aim is to ensure that crime is actually punished. There will be a clear vision of the future of the prison system, with a sound staffing policy. The prison capacity is torn down as little as possible. Should closure be necessary, prisons located outside the Randstad will be spared as much as possible." End quote from the coalition agreement Trust in the future. This sounds like decisive language that appeals to us as GO. You will understand that, because our motto is'realism and action'. But what exactly happens in practice from these roaring slogans from the coalition agreement? 90% of the employees of the Judicial Institutions Service feel that the workload has increased significantly in 2019. Among other things, a survey of the FNV among 1,400 DJI employees showed this. The same study showed that 80% call the workload "unhealthy high." This leads to dangerous situations. I think that has also been mentioned by a number of previous speakers. In 2019 this minister closed no less than four establishments in the juvenile prisons, namely Cadier and Keer in Limburg, Veenhuizen in Drenthe, Almere in Flevoland and Hoorn in Noord-Holland. Due to the closure of these juvenile prisons, the occupation in the remaining juvenile prisons has increased enormously, sometimes to 94% or more, leading to a sharp increase in workload and unsafe situations. "Criminals are in charge of prisons because of Sander Dekker's austerity" said the famous crime journalist John van den Heuvel on TV recently. "To the great annoyance of detective teams, suspects belonging to the same criminal networks cannot be separated from each other due to a lack of cells. These kind of groups feel superpowerful. Threats and abuses of guards are the result," says crime specialist Van den Heuvel. Mr. Chairman. How can the Minister's policy of abolition be reconciled with the strengthened vi policy? If the VI policy is strengthened, that will, of course, lead to longer prison sentences, because you will get less automatic discounts. So more of the perpetrators will stay in prison longer. That capacity is being abolished. As we know and as we've seen at the corona, you may have breathing equipment on the ic, but you also need staff. So there are a lot of problems with the staff now. So I'd like to hear from the Minister how he's going to handle this. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other questions for the Minister. Can the Minister give us the quantitative justification for the capacity utilisation of the remaining open prisons? This policy, of course, has all kinds of consequences for prison capacity utilisation. I assume that the Minister has thought carefully about these practical consequences. Another question we have for the Minister is how he sees electronic supervision as an option in the vi-regime and, in concrete terms, how many cases of electronic supervision are currently in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a point that requires special attention, namely the possibility that the actual payment of compensation by convicted offenders to the victims is an aspect to be taken into account in the possibility of early release. In France, for example, this is a standard criterion for the possibility of vi, so that the victim actually receives the compensation granted. Does the Minister also see the possibility of applying this in the vi-regime in the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. We look forward to the Minister's reply with great interest. We look forward to an interesting exchange of views with the Minister in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-15-eerstekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I shall suspend the sitting for the night until 16 June 2020 at 09.15 a.m.
