ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u1	Welcome, everyone. The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Kuiken, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van Eijs for the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language, Section 34562. I am glad that we have already been able to plan the continuation after the first term of the Chamber last week and that this time we can offer a stream via the website of the House of Representatives with deaf interpretation. I would like to welcome the initiators. They are supported in trade-K by Pim Roza, a member of the Christian Union. Where is he? Oh, in the lodge. You're very welcome. Of course, I would also like to welcome the representatives of the deaf community to the chair: Mrs Corrie Tijsseling and Mrs Eva Westerhoff. Two interpreters are also present. That's Mrs. Maya de Wit and Mrs. Rosanna Demkes. Finally, I would like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, who, in this legal process, acts as advisor to the Chamber, and of course the people in the public gallery. Thank you for following this debate again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u2	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik for her answer in the first term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by greeting everyone in the public gallery and those who follow this debate at home through the stream, and fortunately also follow it, because interpreters have been deployed Dutch Sign Language. I would therefore also like to say thank you for the interpreters you are going to do today. Thank you, indeed, to the Chamber and the Registrar for allowing us to proceed with this legislative proposal so quickly today, because we would like to speed up after 30 years. I would also like to express my thanks to what has already been called 'the deaf community': Corrie Tijsseling, Eva Westerhoff, Trude Schermer, Daniel Scheper and all the others from the deaf community who inspired and helped us to bring about this bill. I would also like to thank my fellow petitioners, Mrs Carla Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs, for having been able and allowed to do this together, because it really was a party. But also special thanks for Pim Roza, the policy officer of the Christian Union. Unfortunately, he's leaving the room. But you've done such an incredible amount of work. Thanks a lot! Mr. Chairman. I told you, this bill has a huge long history. 30 years ago, Trude Schermer wrote a dissertation recommending that the Dutch Sign Language be officially recognized. Since then, the deaf community has been fighting for the recognition of their mother tongue. In 2014, my party colleague Roelof van Laar announced a bill to officially regulate that recognition. Esmé Wiegman of the Christian Union has also worked for this. It is incredibly honorable that we were finally allowed to take over from them. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the various groups very much for their input in the first term. Many questions have been asked on various subjects. I'm gonna show you how we're gonna do the answer, in neat cubes, as you're used to by now. First of all, I would like to address the questions that have been asked about the choice of legal anchoring and what practical impact we expect from it. Ms Dik-Faber addressed the role of the government and the body, also known as "the advisory body." Finally, Mrs Van Eijs will address a number of practical questions that have been asked, for example about the interpreters, about the oath and promise, but also about the financial consequences, and about the questions that have been asked about the culture of deaf people. The questions that have been explicitly asked to the Minister, let us, of course, leave them to her. Mr. Chairman. It struck me in the first term that several MPs are personally involved in the deaf community, such as the old school friend of Mr Van der Molen, the niece of Mrs Van den Hul and the assertive train companion of Mr Jetten, Sabien. I think she's also in the gallery; yes, I saw her. It also shows that when we know someone personally, it is quite natural that our society should be accessible to everyone, including the deaf and the hearing impaired who are sign-speakers. No far-from-my-bed show, but something that is very close and therefore not only has symbolic value. By the way, this recognition of the Dutch Sign language has a strong personal and symbolic value, but there is also a strong practical necessity. First of all, let me address this practical need. In fact, all the members of your Chamber asked: why is the need for that legal recognition and what are its practical consequences? Perhaps Mr El Yassini asked the most intrusive question, and I quote him: "What is the most important added value of legally anchoring the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language?" Well, that's why. This law guarantees the right to use the Dutch Sign Language. The fact that this language is so appreciated in 2020 is not a guarantee. Nor is it a guarantee that it will always be that way. History shows that there is a swinging movement, that views have changed over the years, that there is acceptance but also disgust and that deaf education is still known for its method struggle which is still taking place today. By recognizing the Dutch Sign language and laying down the right to use the Dutch Sign language, this right is no longer at the mercy of arbitrariness or the delusion of the day, but is more of a given. From the deaf community itself it is also indicated that it is necessary because much is regulated on paper, but one still depends too much on whether it is awarded. It is precisely recognition that is necessary in order to remove this arbitrariness and to allow that to no longer be a coincidence. Mr. Chairman. Let me give you a few examples, because your Chamber has also asked very clearly what sign speakers are encountering in practice and why recognition is needed. I shall begin with education, which Mrs Özütok and Mr Jetten specifically asked for. All deaf and hearing impaired pupils are entitled to compensation for the use of interpreters up to the age of 30. This is from the interpretation facility. There are, however, signs that this is not always going well in practice if we want to make use of it in mainstream education. This is partly due to unfamiliarity, but it is sometimes also because it is expected to create many practical obstacles. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the interpreter Dutch Sign Language is still seen too much as a kind of tool, a kind of tutor or supporter, rather than someone who simply translates the teaching material topically and accurately. In fact, the use of an interpreter of Dutch Sign Language means less work for teachers in mainstream education. The interpreter Dutch Sign Language also has a positive influence on the educational results of deaf pupils. Many pupils are still left behind in mainstream education while there is nothing wrong with their learning capacity. But simply because a good quality translation is lacking, they are actually lagging behind and their knowledge and skills are not optimally used. Because the teaching material is well transferred, the student has full access to information and communication. This benefits the education, the classroom and the teacher. And above all, most importantly, that benefits the student. So you have to take practical care of that, and the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language helps. Mr. Chairman. Specific questions have also been asked about interpreters in education over the age of 30. That has not been properly dealt with at the moment. I will explain why this is not the case: because the interpretation provision for education is included in the Act on other OCW grants, the WOST. This law is linked to study funding. Lifelong learning is therefore not for the deaf and the hearing impaired. This has been the subject of discussion for years by the ministries of OCW and SZW: when is it about education and when do you need interpreters in the work? Then it's always a matter of who has to pay, so it's a matter of money. That means it's still not settled at the moment. You also asked us what we thought about that. Well, we would very much like this dispute to be resolved. A motion has also been tabled recently by Mr Kerstens. However, this has not yet produced the desired result. This also indicates that recognition of the Dutch Sign Language is really necessary. Mr. Chairman. Everyday obstacles in ordinary work and private situations are numerous. Let me mention some of them. For example, employees of social workshops are not entitled to compensation for the use of Dutch Sign Language interpreters. A deaf employee of a health care office, a story that I know personally would be used for contract negotiations, but there were too few toll courses available to make that possible. Think also of the deaf notary who does her work in the Dutch Sign Language but is hindered in it, or of a PhD student who wants to defend her dissertation in the Dutch Sign Language. Think of the possibility to take exams, or love; taking the vow of marriage in the Dutch Sign language is not necessarily possible at the moment. Or take Mr Van der Molen's example. Participation in public transport can be very difficult if there is a delay or breakdown of trains, as he rightly said, because the delay may be called, but the signs are not always on or provide the right information for someone who cannot hear but is dependent on other information channels. In short, there are many examples in daily practice that you and I may not be thinking about at all, but those deaf and hearing impaired are limited in their normality. That makes us think that this bill has practical added value. There are suitable solutions for communication with deaf and hearing impaired people, but these solutions are not always accepted in society, are sometimes opposed or not always offered. This has to do, among other things, with the fact that we still do not regard the Dutch Sign Language as a full language. We are convinced, the deaf community is convinced, that this law helps to use appropriate solutions by legally establishing the status of the Dutch Sign Language. Besides, it also does things on other fronts. If you acknowledge the Dutch Sign language, you will put down an equivalent status for the language and emancipate the deaf community. The fact that your language is recognized also makes you understand when you are discriminated against and not put in your right. If you have an official language, you realize that you are equivalent to others and that you may object if that equivalence is not done right. This means that you can recognise discrimination based on language. That also gives you the courage to do something about discrimination where you encounter it. Because when the government says, when we say to each other that your language is an official language, which we recognize, you know that you are entitled to feel equal and to get your equivalent right in it. Think also of the fact that, in the event of repeated refusal to regulate certain practical matters properly, you may be able to rely on discrimination in the field of language, possibly within the framework of the Equal Treatment Act. But, Mr President, that is of course a negative reason to recognize the Dutch Sign language. We also expect a lot of positive effects. Let me mention them, too. If the Dutch sign language Act is adopted, we expect more enthusiasm and interest in this language in society. Indeed, the number of applications for the training of interpreter Dutch Sign language has increased considerably since the cabinet in crisis communication also uses interpreters Dutch Sign language. Seeing therefore also helps in the recognition and acceptance of the Dutch Sign Language. That helps to find it an simply good thing in daily information traffic. Moreover, I have to say that the presence of interpreters in Dutch Sign Language is not taken for granted everywhere, for in the Randstad there are more interpreters than in the region. So there are still some challenges in that. Mr. Chairman. I'm heading for a roundup. I say this to Mr El Yassini. Many things we do like the Netherlands, as policymakers, as cabinet, as minister, or if you and I are just a matter of doing. We get that. With the law in hand, however, we give the Dutch Sign Language a legal guarantee. We make sure that it's not just a matter of doing it, but that it's actually doing it. That is to say, not only the intention, but also really making it happen and that it no longer depends on arbitrariness or the delusion of the day. That is the practical side of the matter, but there is also a symbolic side to it which is very sensitive to people personally. Being deaf is not only a limitation; it is also an identity. Corrie Tijsseling of the deaf community said it so beautifully last week when I asked her if she was excited about this debate. She said: I find it very exciting, but also very emotional. She referred to her father, who in his time was not allowed to use the Dutch Sign language. He'd get a slap on the wrist. He wasn't supposed to be one of them. It is a very emotional fact when you are simply denied in your existence, in your being and in your identity. So it's not just about recognition and practical access; it's also about being who you are as a human being, being allowed to express who you are, being allowed to express yourself in your native language and being totally okay with that. Mr. Chairman. In short, a legal recognition of the Dutch Sign language is a small step for all of us, I think, but it is a very big step for the deaf community, whose language was considered inferior and forbidden until the 1990s. It is a language for which the deaf community has been fighting on its own for a long time. They have already dealt with a great many things in practice, but they still encounter obstacles. Let us help them with this by legally anchoring the Dutch Sign language. I think they deserve that after 30 years. Mr President, I see that Mr El Yassini wishes to ask me a question. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Carla Dik-Faber after I have taken up this point. It will address the questions about the role of the government and the body that is also called 'the advisory body', as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u4	But you're done answering your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u6	Thank you. Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u7	I waited patiently for Mrs Kikkie's contribution to be completed. Thank you for your contribution. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on submitting this initiative, that you are working on this and that you are putting it on the agenda. I'm very happy about that. I think it's very important myself. Mrs. Kuik also spoke to me personally. For example, when I was an educational spokesperson, I fought very hard together with Lisa Westerveld of GroenLinks for MBO students who have a disability, but who are incredibly talented and can make something beautiful of their lives. That's why we jumped on the breach, just because we think any human being should be who it is. We believe that every human being is fully-fledged and part of Dutch society. That is why I asked that question in my first term. Mrs Kuik also indicates the added value of legal anchoring. My question to Mrs Kuik is what rights the deaf community can really derive from this initiative proposal. She gave a lot of examples, but does that mean, in fact, that people who run into these barriers, for whom things are not arranged because they are deaf or hearing impaired, with now proposed legislative amendment can get their rights? And if so, how?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u8	Mrs Dik-Faber will go into this in more detail, for example by making the comparison with the Frisian language. I think it's gonna help on two fronts. Recognition of the language gives us the duty to settle a number of issues, such as that we offer Princess Day and the General Political Reviews in the Dutch Sign Language. That's one side of the story. Where we sometimes forget it now, we will not be able to do so. Two. Interpreting should be a right now, but obstacles are emerging. I expect you to say with this recognition in your hand, "This is my right; why am I denied my right?" On these two fronts this is going to play a role. I do not want to say that with this recognition everything is automatically well arranged, because that still requires a great deal of effort from us. That's what the example of the APB or Princess' Day is about. This will also be the case in other areas. But where it should already be a right, we really think this is going to help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u9	A brief supplementary question. I think there is still much to be done. That's what we're all doing here, so it's not just the spokesmen's language. This has to do with several ministries. My question is again: can someone from the deaf community, someone who is deaf or hearing impaired, after this initiative is adopted by the Second and the First Chamber, eventually go to court when they feel that they do not get what they need to function fully in society, such as the guidance or help of an interpreter, for example? Can those with this initiative get justice from the judge? Or does he need other laws and rules to fight that for each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u10	With this recognition, we are not ready to close it 100%. That is why I also referred to Mrs Dik-Faber, who will make a comparison with the Frisian language, for which this is anchored on a number of points. It is not one hundred percent sealed, but this is a first very essential step to enable further steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to say to the people here in the Chamber, but also to the people in the public gallery and to Eva Westerhoff and Corrie Tijsseling, who are among us: how good it is to be here today with each other and to be here today and to deal with this important bill in this House of Representatives. We've been looking forward to this for so long. It's been two years since I was in Leeuwarden and in your midst. I then received 15,000 signatures for the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. I have incredibly warm memories of that meeting, where so many sign speakers were present. It was nice not only to see people who used sign language in that conference center in Leeuwarden, but also throughout the city. This happened in the museum, where there was an exhibition of a deaf artist, but also in the restaurant where I went for a bite to eat in the evening. People at the table next to me were talking in sign language. That is the inclusive society that I have in mind: that you can be completely yourself and participate fully in our society and use your own mother tongue. How important that is! Mr. Chairman. Let me now turn to all the questions that have been asked. Mrs Van der Graaf rightly states that it is a good thing that deaf sign speakers can also use their mother tongue in contact with the government and that this is an important task for local authorities, such as the municipalities. Mrs Van der Graaf wants to know how we see the Minister's role in this. Mr Jetten also wants to know what we expect from the government on this point. In short, we expect this minister and the government to have an exemplary role and a leading role. For example, on the basis of the advice of the advisory college set up, the Minister can have a directive for municipalities on the translation of important information into Dutch Sign Language and communication via Dutch Sign Language. This directive, which is being drawn up, can, for example, be disseminated to all members through the Association of Dutch Municipalities and brought to the attention of the public. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked about the role of the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language in administrative and legal traffic. How far do these responsibilities go? Should all public speeches by ministers, for example, be translated into Dutch Sign language? Or would there be a selection in that? In any event, the initiators consider it desirable that all public speeches broadcast on national television channels should be translated as standard. For other public speeches for specific occasions and/or a specific company, it could always be considered in advance whether a translation into Dutch Sign Language is desirable. I can imagine that the cabinet is not very reluctant on this point, but is also asking for advice from the advisory board set up with this bill. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen, who will join us shortly, I think, asked for his input into the comparison with the Frisian language law. Mrs Kuik reminded us a moment ago that I would explain a few things. Mr Van der Molen mentioned the Frisian language law as an appropriate example. At the same time he warned us, because the Frisian language has been recognized for years and is also a matter of the government, but the government considers the promotion of the Frisian language all too often as a matter for the Frisian themselves. Then the hands will be pulled off again. His question to us is therefore whether we see this risk and how we prevent it. Mr El Yassini also wanted to know how we look at putting the ball back at the deaf community. Mr. Chairman. We see that there are still wishes for improving the use of the Frisian language. However, many things are well arranged by the law that is there for the Frisian language. I have been given a comprehensive list of where the Frisian language law has led. If you would appreciate it, I would certainly like to give that comprehensive list here in the sitting. I do not wish to deny it, but allow me to shorten it a little. I think the President-in-Office of the Council thinks that this is a good idea. First of all, education. In all schools in the province of Friesland, Friesland is a regular trade. There are skill requirements for the teaching staff and you can take the exam in the Fries field. The Frisian language may also be used as a teaching language. Then there's justice. Since 1956, parties to the court and court in the province of Friesland have been allowed to use the Friesland. Acts in civil status are made out in two languages, both in Dutch and in Frisian. Then there's the administrative traffic. Citizens of the province of Friesland may use the Friesland in their contact with governments. The General Administrative Law Act is the law that oversees it. The swearing-in in the Frisian of local and provincial directors and politicians is regulated by the Municipal Law and by the Province Act. Mr. Chairman. I have tried to keep it brief, but also in this conciseness this is a rather comprehensive list. It shows that recognition of a language actually leads to steps and anchoring in public policies and relevant legislation. The deaf community itself has worked hard over the past 30 years on the social recognition of the Dutch Sign language. She has clearly succeeded in this too, because the Dutch Sign Language is already socially recognized and the interpretation facilities are generally well organized. That's what the deaf community did on its own. The deaf community has taken on its own responsibility, and will continue to do so. But without the support of legal recognition, that is simply many times more difficult. There remain situations where an exemplary and exhortation function of the government is needed or where a crowbar is needed in the form of a legal instrument for situations of incomprehension and unwillingness. The deaf community has achieved social recognition. What she is now asking the government to do is to recognise this language legally. These two together, social and legal recognition, ensure full recognition. Mr. Chairman. I wanted to move on to the next issue, but I see that Mr Jetten may want to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u13	Thank you to the two initiators who have spoken so far for you to emphasise so firmly in your response both the positive value of recognition and its practical implementation. I have a question in connection with the comparison with the Frisian language, but also in relation to the practical examples that Mrs Kuik gave about education. Is it the intention of the initiators that when this law is adopted, the recognition of the Dutch Sign language actually automatically leads to the use of the sign interpreter in the courtroom or automatically leads to the extracts of the civil status in sign language? Or is that something that we, as a Chamber, have to do as an additional act when this law is passed? Do we still have to tighten up this legislative proposal on a number of points, or do we have to push the Minister further by means of motions? Or do you think that, following the adoption of this law, at least as many rights can be derived from the Frisian language?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u14	The Frisian language shows that it is legally well anchored, but that there is still a gap between legal anchoring and daily practice. In education it is possible and common to provide for the Frisian language. The Frisian language can also be used in education. But if you take a tour of the schools in Friesland, everyone actually recognizes that it is legally well arranged, but that in practice there is quite a bit more to be done. The same is true of this bill. We have already arranged in legislation that the Dutch Sign Language can be used, in the sense that an interpreter Dutch Sign Language is present in education, but in practice people who want to use it run into all kinds of obstacles. The initiators hope that, with the adoption of this bill, we will be able to support these people with the formal legal anchoring, as is the case with the Frisian law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u15	A brief follow-up question. I am going to embrace this initiative proposal anyway, because I am very much in favour of it, but for me personally, it is a bit of a search to see if I need to make this proposal even further with additional amendments in order to cover all the concerns that we may have to deal with in the future. Or do the initiators, including the establishment of the advisory college, think that in the coming years we are going to ensure that the legal recognition, which is symbolically very important, actually leads to further improvements in the daily life of the deaf community?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u16	The initiators believe, supported by the input of the deaf community, that much is already legally possible, for example the interpreter Dutch Sign language in education or the courtroom. This legislation gives considerable support to this. It concerns the legal anchoring of the Dutch Sign language. There is no need to amend this law further. This law stands like a house and in its shortness is really a very powerful law. We hope that, in practice, this law will provide support in cases where sign-language speakers run counter to it. Mr Jetten mentioned the consultative college to be set up. I'll get to that in a minute, but the advisory board will be made up of people who are experienced. They will certainly also be able to advise governments on how to act in these cases. So I am really convinced that with this law, the existing legislation that we already have and the advisory college that we are about to set up, we are taking a huge step towards the inclusive society in which sign speakers can use their mother tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u17	Please continue, Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u18	I told you I wanted to comment on the Dutch Sign Language Advisory Committee. Among others, Mr Van der Molen, who is now among us, Mr Bishop, Mr Jetten and Mrs Van der Graaf asked for this. What do we expect from the advisory board? What will be the status of the advice given by the advisory body? How do we ensure that suggestions from the deaf community to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language are actually included in the policy? The added value of the advisory college is that it can continuously advise the cabinet on the design of the policy, because this college is manned by precisely those who in daily life have to do with the Dutch Sign Language and unfortunately also with discrimination in the Dutch Sign Language. The members of the college are the users of the Dutch Sign Language, sign language deaf, parents of deaf children who pursue bilingual education, language scientists, teachers of Dutch Sign Language and professionals from care and education where the Dutch Sign Language is the language of instruction. The advisory college can initiate an investigation into the state of the Dutch Sign Language to identify exactly who the users of the Dutch Sign Language are, what their needs are and what they are up against. Based on all these stories, it can make recommendations. This is similar to the research carried out by the Dutch Language Union on the state of Dutch and Frisian. The advisory board has the task of advising the minister on the protection and promotion of the Dutch Sign Language. This could include, for example, a hotline on discrimination in the use of the Dutch Sign Language. Mr Jetten asked for the opinions and reports of the Consultative College to be made available and made public. Of course, the initiators are very positive about this. Transparency is a very good thing and we can only welcome it. For example, an annual progress report could be agreed. Moreover, the advisory board will soon receive a modest budget. Mr. Chairman. These are points on which my colleague Mrs Van Eijs will go further. I would therefore like to conclude my speech and give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs, who will address all the other points and answer all the other questions. I see another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u19	You're giving everyone the floor. I might as well do something else. Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u20	I would like to ask you, just to be sure, otherwise I will be late, or Mrs Van Eijs will answer my questions about the gesture interpreter in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u21	Yeah, that's right. Those questions will be answered shortly by Mrs Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u22	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs. Yeah, whoever sits where might be a little complicated, but so far, so good. I call Mrs Van Eijs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For me personally, this is perhaps the debate that hits me the most. I'm not deaf; I'm "but" ill-hearing. I am therefore unfortunately not powerful in the Dutch Sign language. With the recognition of the Dutch Sign language I came into contact for the first time after seeing the documentary Deaf child, a moving portrait of a father about his deaf son. For me, there were a lot of recognizable situations and emotions in it: a society that doesn't seem to be made for you and the sense of exclusion that you can rob, also as a hearing impaired. A viewing tip for everyone, if you don't mind. In the discussion that was organized after the documentary, the room did not really come to life until it was about the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. I thought: hasn't it been recognized for a long time; hasn't that been settled long? That is why I am particularly pleased that today, as the Dutch Sign Language is increasingly visible in all our lives, I can contribute to the official recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. Speaking of the visible and increasingly present of the Dutch Sign Language in our society, Mrs Van der Graaf said that it would be good if at least weekly Question Time and the General Political Reviews were provided with an interpreter Dutch Sign Language. She wants to know how we, as initiators, look at this. It is certainly desirable to have weekly Question Time and the General Political Reviews translated into the Dutch Sign Language. The weekly conversation with the Prime Minister is already translated into the Dutch Sign language via NPO News. It would be even better if all Dutch Sign language translations were shown directly in the broadcast, on NPO 1, 2 or 3, and not on a back channel on a digital transmitter. For example, NPO News is not standard with every provider in the package. That really is a short blow or a quick win, as Mrs Van den Hul called it, which we can achieve. Mr Van der Molen I am pleased that he is back on board to know whether introducing the right to take the oath or the promise in sign language and the obligation to offer crisis communication in sign language also means that other legislation may still have to be adapted. There are different notation systems for sign languages used by language scientists. I have here, for example, the Basic Dictionary of Dutch Sign Language. It's a big book. In that you can see that it is indeed possible to write sign languages. There is no need for other legislation. It's just a matter of translating the oath into the Dutch Sign language. The Dutch Sign Centre, the lexicographic institute that makes full use of the insights of sign speakers in all translations, can assume the task of translating the oath into the Dutch Sign Language. A final version can be obtained, which can be recorded in the online Sign Dictionary by means of both a notation system and video. The final version will then always be used as a standard when taking an oath. Mr Jasper van Dijk also rightly pointed out the importance of accessible communication at the time of a crisis. This legislative proposal provides for a better anchoring of this accessibility. However, thanks to the amendment tabled by colleagues Westerveld, Van der Graaf and Van den Hul, an effort obligation of public and commercial media services has also been incorporated into the law to make crisis communication accessible to people with auditory limitations. Mr. Jasper van Dijk then wanted to know what that was like in court. The use of Dutch Sign Language interpreters in the judicial sphere is indeed a concern. This is in itself covered by the general rules for interpreters at the Ministry of Justice. For years there has been a special team of interpreters with a special training of justice interpreter and a SIGV-note in the Dutch Sign Language area. However, the remuneration of these interpreters is significantly lower than that of interpreters paid from the UWV. And those who report are not always assured of tolkinzet, because the policy is not explicitly formalised on this point and has no basis in fact. Those who are suspected will always receive an interpreter, but not as soon as they are placed in a prison. As far as prisoners are concerned, there is another problem. The Penitentiary Principles Act does not regulate tolkinzet. The reasoning seems to be that when access to society is denied, access to social services such as interpreting services is also denied. There is an interpreter available in research or conversations with the lawyer, but not in all other forms of social interaction. And finally, the use of interpreters in the IND is fine, but with azc's again less. In short, the right to use the Dutch Sign Language in a judicial context is not well established and the use of interpreters Dutch Sign Language depends on accidental networks and changing policies. By recognizing the Dutch Sign language, a fundamental right is established, whereby in practice it will become increasingly apparent in the situations in which this right will be felt. I say this in reply to Mrs Van der Graaf. Recently, for example, a master thesis has been written about the use of the Dutch Sign Language in the notary, in the case of a deaf notary, and the validity of his actions in the Dutch Sign Language. Mr El Yassini wants to know the consequences for other public authorities, for example for municipalities, provinces and water authorities, both organizational and financial. In principle, the costs of interpreting are already covered in the current budgets for interpretation, especially privacy, in many situations where a sign-language comes into contact with the government. I see an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk, so perhaps now? I was done with the justice part; maybe that'll help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u24	I apologise to Mr El Yassini for interrupting his reply, but the block of justice was over, and I had indeed asked a question about that. Thanks for the answer. I have to tell you that I have an amendment in the making, which I can therefore submit, which regulates that there is always a sign interpreter in the courtroom, and that it is also reimbursed. Could I please the proposers with that? Wouldn't it be a valuable addition to your law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u25	Mrs. Van Eijs, or Mrs. Kuik, or Mrs. Dik-Faber? Why don't you guys take a look at yourselves? Otherwise, you may come back to that later, because I can imagine that not all questions can be answered equally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u26	I haven't quite seen the proposal yet, but I like to study it. Then we shall return to it in the second term, if Mr Jasper van Dijk agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u27	Very good. That's how the ministers do it when they don't know something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u28	I was with Mr El Yassini's question about the municipalities, provinces and waterboards. The costs of interpreting are actually already covered in many situations, especially those relating to the environment. Many deaf and hard of hearing also like to choose which interpreter they take to an appointment with the municipality, for example. Any citizen with an interpreter can use them at, for example, a city council meeting. This does not happen now or hardly because in practice it is difficult to react to it. It is denied whether the work of interpreters is being made more difficult by refusing to cooperate, refusing to consult documents in preparation or not knowing enough about the professional code of interpreters, etc. Other governments can therefore ask citizens with interpretation facilities to use all or part of their own budget for interpretation, thereby ensuring that the interpreter can work optimally. Our proposal does not change this. It's about the acceptance of taking an interpreter. It must therefore be improved in particular. Recognition of the Dutch Sign Language contributes to the fame and taking the Dutch Sign Language seriously and thus facilitates the use of the interpreters. What does the bill mean for the deaf culture? Mr Van der Molen and Mr Bisschop asked for an explicit answer to the deaf culture and whether it would be sufficient to recognise it implicitly. What avenues can we possibly see in addition to this bill to give the deaf culture the place it deserves? There are several scientific disciplines and institutions involved in investigating the language and culture of the Dutch deaf community. There are several working groups in this area. The advisory board has, among other things, the function of identifying what research is being carried out and by whom, and what is still missing, and then giving advice in this area. Internationally we talk about Deaf Studies, the scientific discipline that deals with the language, culture and history of the deaf community around the world. The advisory college will be attended by language scientists, but also scientists from related disciplines can be invited, such as anthropologists, sociologists and historians. For example, at Leiden University there is currently a study of the language and culture of deaf people who have been educated at the reformed deaf institution Effatha. At the UVA there is a study of the language and culture of various deaf communities in Europe, such as in the Netherlands. Research into the language of a community also means research into the culture and history of the deaf community. The national interest organisation of deaf people has a working group on cultural heritage deaf people, with which all regional and specific historical working groups of deaf people are associated. Recognition of the Dutch Sign Language helps these groups to obtain grants and funds for research into the language and history of their community. Mr President, I shall conclude. I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to the drafting of this bill once again. Mr Van der Molen began his speech by saying that the usefulness and necessity of this recognition of the Dutch Sign Language should in fact be beyond question. We hope that with our answers we have also convinced those who were still in doubt about this need. We look forward to the vote and sincerely hope that a majority in the Chamber, perhaps all of you, will support this bill. This does justice to the inclusive society that we all aspire to. It will be a festive moment for the deaf community in our country. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u29	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. Also thank you for sharing your personal experience with us as a Room. Thank you. Is there still a question left? No? First I'll clean up, and then I'll give the Minister of the Interior the floor as an advisor to the Chamber. I now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can say that it is a special pleasure to be present as an advisor on behalf of the cabinet in this debate. It's special. The President opened the debate last week in sign language. I'm not doing that to her, unfortunately. Today, too, the debate is being interpreted in real time. Mrs Kuik also recalled it, but I, like many others, at the press conference on the corona crisis looked with admiration at Irma Sluis and, of course, at her colleagues, and at their ability to convey such a press conference in real time in the mother tongue of gesture speakers. There was no better example, I think, to illustrate the importance of the Dutch Sign Language and the need for its recognition. But these three Members of Parliament around me, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van Eijs, have seen this interest much before. This is reflected in the proposal for an initiative that we are discussing today. I would therefore like to express our admiration and warm support for this initiative on behalf of the cabinet. It is a bill that the MPs want to actively remove thresholds and to ensure that deaf and hearing impaired people can actively contribute to our society, which is actually self-evident. The cabinet also recognises that it is not just about removing thresholds. It is also about the recognition of the language and culture of sign speakers, for those whose mother tongue is this language. Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to answer the questions that have been put to me, but I would like to make a number of comments on three subjects of a more general nature: the definition of the proposal, the implementation of the law and the costs involved. First of all, the definition. Some of the questions were about that, too. In fact, there was a need to see whether the demarcation was sufficiently sharp and to be able to see the consequences. I believe that it is indeed important to appoint this, also to do expectation management in the language community and in all public authorities. This initiative proposal lays down the rights of the language community. Article 3 contains an obligation to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language in administrative and legal traffic. If the proposal still does not define its scope sufficiently, it could lead to a greatly increased recourse to the limited available capacity of interpreters at the moment. There are now 638 registered interpreters. It is, of course, a bit of a crazy paradox, but I think that by promoting the use of sign language, the short-term shortage of interpreters is becoming even more acute. That is not in the interests of the language community. This illustrates the need to ensure a demarcation and a step-by-step approach. However, this is necessary in order to achieve what the proposal is intended to achieve. A second preliminary remark concerns the way in which the legislative proposal is implemented. To promote sign language is not a quick fix. Fortunately, it is moving in the right direction, also in current practice, but it is a matter that is going to take time. Then I would say: you must have a plan of action with a realistic growth model. I'll get back to that when I answer the questions. The third comment I have to make when your advisor is about money. The scope will determine the financial statement for which we stand when. The bill will lead to costs for Dutch public authorities, for example for the 355 municipalities in the Netherlands. I think there's just choices to be made in there. For example, you can choose to only interpret council meetings live in sign language. Perhaps another municipality says: we also want to hold committee meetings. I think it's good to have options in that. Again, I mentioned the municipalities, but we also have the provinces, the water boards and everything that takes place here in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. I don't think we have a real view of these costs for the time being. The proposal also does not provide for budgetary coverage. I think it is necessary to at least recognise that we will need additional resources. We will still have to discuss this, but I am sure that the Chamber and the initiators are aware of this and that we should also arrange that coverage on further reading and elaboration. Finally, when the law comes into force, it must also be financially adapted. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions of the MPs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u31	I see you standing, Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u32	Yes, I have an enlightening question for the Minister. Do I hear correctly that the Minister as an advisor says that it is not yet clear what this initiative proposal will cost, apart from the fact that we also do not know how it will be paid? Am I hearing correctly that the Minister says so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u33	Yeah, that's right. It is actually about two points. The definition of the scope determines the costs. That was my first point. My second point was that the proposal as such does not yet provide for financial coverage. So that's right. Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u34	Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u35	I interpreted the Minister's reply in such a way that she said: I assume that the Chamber will take that into account in its judgment of this law and then we will settle it afterwards. Can I also point out that the Minister does not expect it to cause major problems for the department or other authorities if we adopt this law and therefore settle it with each other in a financial sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u36	On the first part of Mr Jetten's question, I think it would be wise to define more specifically the law and also the article I mentioned, Article 3. This can help in the elaboration, including for all the other governments that will have to deal with this. I do not think that anyone wants financial constraints or too broad an explanation of their scope to lead, for example, to a direct bottleneck because of the limited capacity of interpreters at the moment. Of course, that doesn't help in implementing this law. I am therefore in favour of a stricter definition and a step-by-step approach, which I shall be able to discuss further. I can say to Mr Jetten: in that case, I think it is simply feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u37	I would just like to make a general remark, which the Members of Parliament are releasing: it is not the case that Members of Parliament have to send out a financial impact of the legislative proposal in the case of legislative proposals. Otherwise, we're gonna have a different type of discussion. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u38	Sure. In general, I think you are used to the fact that the cabinet is also looking at that financial side. I consider that to be part of my consultative work. But, of course, I understand your point. Then I come to the questions that have been asked. Mrs Van den Hul and Mr Bishop have asked questions about the practical aspects. I think this is how it's gonna go. If the parliament has accepted the bill, the cabinet will write a plan of action on how the law can be implemented. In parallel, the consultative body requested will have to be set up. The cabinet will then ask the advisory body to look at the plan of approach that the cabinet has made in the meantime. Of course, the Cabinet will discuss this with your Chamber. In the plan of action, therefore, there is room for reflection on Mrs Van den Hul's question as to what more the cabinet is going to do to improve accessibility for deaf and hearing impaired people in the media and education, for example. By the way, it is good to report, but Mrs Van den Hul may also know that the Ministry of Education already supports higher education institutions in a national working group on student welfare in order to offer tailor-made work to deaf and hearing impaired students with a support question. In addition to OCW the VSNU, the Association of Colleges, the University of Humanistics, the student associations ISO and LSVb and the Expertise Centre including education are represented in this working group. I think it is right that the consultative body should also be asked to consider the usefulness and need of an awareness campaign on the use of this language, particularly with regard to administrative and legal traffic. In response to Mrs Özütok's question on increasing awareness of sign-interpreting. I said something about the practice. As I said, it is not limited to the government and it is also about other governments. Many citizens need close contact, in their own living environment, in their own region. That is why I would also like to speak with municipalities, provinces and their umbrella organisations and invite them to take a step forward. That is my response to the questions put by Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van der Graaf. Then the delineation and the scope. Mrs Van der Graaf asked about Article 3, which I mentioned briefly in my introduction. I think that concreteisation and delineation are key issues. I understood that from the questions asked in the Chamber. In response to this, I would suggest to the House that we clarify this a little further. It is actually an obligation to promote the use of the Dutch Sign Language, even in the case of, for example, public speeches by the Cabinet. That's where you actually see two things coming together. On the one hand, this is the responsibility of different organisations to be accessible to citizens, to all citizens, also by removing language barriers. That could play here. On the other hand, these are the interpretation facilities for users in the field of work, living and education that sign speakers can use to work, to participate and to be able to train. Where do these powers meet? Among the available people in the profession of registered sign language interpreters, who are lacking. Any effort to remove thresholds, in the courtroom, in the council room, at the municipal desk, we must call on the same profession. It could get bigger, but it'll take time. I would also like to comment on criminal law. Mr Jetten and Mr Van Dijk had already asked some questions about this. I just heard them when they were interrupted in the first term. Sign interpreters are part of that system. They're being deployed to the police and the justice department. In criminal matters, the court compensates the interpreter, given the special nature of criminal law. In short, we must try to prioritise, make choices and learn, and we must gradually move towards the desirable final situation. I believe, like Mr Van der Molen, that we should not put the ball down in the deaf community, but should do so together. I do believe that the parallel with the use of the Frisian language is relevant. I am also looking at Mr Van der Molen, but that is because we have had another debate on this. To promote the use of the Frisian language, there is an organ for the Frisian language: DINGtiid. He has a language skipper and he has the hands full promoting the Frisian. The province of Friesland also wanted to take on the role of language skipper. That language skipper keeps the course on what you want to achieve. This ensures consultation with the departments in The Hague, OCW and BZK. The starting point is that this language community is not burdened too much, but that this language body can play that role. How we did that with the Frisian language also shows that promoting the use of a language is a long-term thing. That's what you've got to keep up. That's a long journey. There is even an active role for the language community itself, but having an advisory body such as DINGtiid, such as the new body proposed in the legislative proposal, is useful and necessary. Mr. Chairman. I come to a number of specific questions from the Chamber. Mrs Özütok asked whether election debates could be interpreted as standard. I understand that the NPO has a roadmap to make the media offering more and more accessible. I have also understood that electoral debates are not yet a priority in that roadmap, but I think it is actually a good suggestion. A free exchange of ideas in a debate is a bit the cornerstone of our democracy, so you want to have it as accessible as possible, especially at such important moments. I will discuss this proposal with Mr Slob and also with the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u39	I would like to thank the Minister for her positive attitude towards making election debates more accessible. In March, the first elections will be held. Shall we take it as an example to make the election debates more inclusive for deaf people? Can the Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u40	I can at least imagine that very well. The fact is that there are elections in March. The fact is that I have already promised that Slob and I will enter into the conversation with the NPO. I am also very willing to say that it would be very nice if this could be achieved at the next national elections. I just can't guarantee the outcome. Then the age criterion in education. That is what Mr Jetten has asked for. I think he also knows that if the right to study funding continues after someone has become 30 years of age or when a Wajong benefit or a lifelong learning credit is used, the right will remain. But for a small group of people it could be that that is not the case. I asked the colleagues of OCW and SZW to inform the Chamber by letter about the possibilities for extending this. Mr President, I have answered the questions that have been put to me and made a number of general comments. In particular, I wanted to say that promoting the Dutch Sign Language is of great importance, that we recognise and acknowledge it and that the Cabinet is happy to contribute to it. I have made some suggestions for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u41	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u42	I have another enlightening question for the Minister. On the way to this debate, in the first term, we received another letter from the Minister. The Minister just said that there is warm or at least warm support on her part for the proposal we are discussing here. But in that letter the Minister said: the cabinet does not necessarily need this law; we would much rather instead first conclude a covenant with the deaf community. That's just how I describe it. The Minister also said that would be enough. Can I now conclude that we can consider that letter to be non-sent? For I now hear the Minister speak much more positively about this than in her first reaction, which I read in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u43	The cabinet always tries to think along with the Chamber, even if there is initiative legislation in the making. We have indeed suggested that it might also be achieved by means of a covenant. I wrote that in that letter, too. In fact, after the first term of office, it is clear, I think, that there is broad support in this Chamber for this initiative legislative proposal. There has also been discussion with the initiators about a different route. The cabinet can agree with that, too. So you don't have to consider the letter as non-sent, but I think we've taken it a step further by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u44	A brief question, Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u45	A further clarifying question with regard to Article 3. This had to do with the effort obligation, and in particular with the tightening up of the demarcation. The next question, because of course there is also a plan of action underneath. It is not clear to me whether the Minister recommends that the initiators pay close attention to this and that they do that definition themselves, or whether it is precisely the minister and the cabinet who are responsible for getting the stricter definition of Article 3 with the plan of action. Can the Minister briefly state how she sees this? Is this a function of the Cabinet, and in this case the Minister, or is it giving this advice to the Chamber, but also to the initiators, on the tightening of the demarcation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u46	I actually think of it as something in two. We are now at the stage of examining the initiative proposal. At that stage, as an advisor to your Chamber, I would point out that Article 3 could be further delineated as regards the cabinet. Then at the front and in the law you already have a clarification, a demarcation, of the scope. In the subsequent phase, there will then be an Article 3 which is more precise. However, I propose that at least in the approach plan we should ensure that it is clear that this is going to be a staged process and that all objectives cannot be achieved at once from the first moment. So it's actually and-and, at this stage, the advice, including to the initiators, to look at Article 3 and perhaps to define it even further, and in the follow-up phase provide for that step-by-step approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u47	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and the Minister very much for answering our questions. As Mrs Kuik said, it took 30 years. There has been a difficult process of emancipation from the deaf and the deaf. Tonight we are taking the first step in the recognition, the legal anchoring, of the Dutch Sign language in our system. My group welcomes this initiative proposal, because recognition of sign language enables deaf people to participate more in our society and make our society more inclusive. Unfortunately, with the legal recognition, not all the thresholds have yet been removed, so we need to be alert that there is good coherence at the time when accompanying policies are being developed and that there are no gaps anymore that contribute to the fact that there are still thresholds for deaf people. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to removing these thresholds, we also see an important task for the Minister of the Interior in terms of accompanying policy and direction of this whole. We will, of course, continue to follow this critically as a group. I wish the initiators every success in the examination of this initiative proposal in the Upper House. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u49	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u50	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you to the initiators for the comprehensive answer. My group will be happy to vote in favour of this bill in the first term, because we think it is important that the Dutch Sign Language is recognised, not only because of the great symbolic value for the deaf community in the Netherlands, but also to ensure that the many people in the Netherlands depend on sign language can achieve their rights in a better way. To be honest, I am also satisfied with the response of both the initiators and the minister on how we are going to follow up on this. The law is a solid foundation. From there, we will continue to build, with the advisory board and with fellow governments, by just looking every year at where the problems are still in practice and how we can continue to address and improve them. In my view, then, we will find ourselves in a very good dynamic to make this not just a symbolic law, but a law that is the beginning of the much further emancipation of the deaf community in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I have just tabled one amendment, together with Mr Van Dijk, in order to obtain, at least in the second term, the response of the initiators and the minister to it: is it appropriate to have access to a sign interpreter in the courtroom in this legislative proposal, or can we do so in a different way from an amendment to this law? I'm curious about the reaction. Mr. Chairman. The Minister just indicated that she spoke with her colleagues from OCW and SZW about the importance of access to a sign interpreter in education when you are over the age of 30. I am glad to hear that there will be a letter from those two rulers, but motions from the Chamber have already been adopted which have not yet produced the desired result. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the grant for educational facilities for persons with disabilities, such as the use of a sign interpreter, can only be granted to persons under the age of 30;]] [[Whereas an age limit should not play a role in removing the obstacles that individuals encounter in the course of education due to illness or lack;]] [[calls on the Government to revise Article 19a of the Act on other OCW grants on this point, or to make a separate arrangement for persons who are currently not entitled to this provision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34562-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u51	Mr President, if I may, I would also like to thank everyone in the deaf community who has been fighting for this for decades. I wish the initiators every success in the defence in the First Chamber, because I expect it and hope that next week or in two weeks' time 150 Members of Parliament will support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Molen on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have already indicated, on behalf of the CDA Group, that we do not doubt the usefulness and necessity of this legislative proposal and that we will therefore wholeheartedly support it. A second-term reaction like that feels a little double. I agree with what Mr Jetten said that it would be fantastic if this law were to be adopted in a genuinely Chamber-wide manner. I think that is a very good signal, even though, of course, I cannot force any of my colleagues to do so. Mr. Chairman. After the first-term answers, including the Minister's answers, I still have a question. Certainly also the Minister's opinion says: we should delimit this law and, in particular, Article 3, because we cannot do everything from the very beginning. Article 3 states that the rights of deaf people to use the Dutch Sign language or to claim an interpreter in public speeches by members of the Cabinet, in administrative traffic and in legal traffic must be improved. I would nevertheless ask the initiators to respond to the Minister's proposal to do something of a demarcation. Or can we do it another way? Under the law on the Frisian Party, the cabinet also realizes that it can't do everything. It concludes, for example, for the five-year period in which additional efforts are made or less effort is made in a given area, depending on the need. I would therefore like to hear from the initiators a reaction to the marking, also at that point. Mr. Chairman. Then another proposal has been made to improve the position in the courtroom. That seems to the CDA to be a good proposal. It is at odds with the restriction advocated by the Minister, but I would like to hear a response from the initiators. For the Frisian, this was once literally fought. In Leeuwarden, there has really been a battle between police and protesters because someone in court was not allowed to use his or her language. At the time, the fact that this was defeated still gave rise to Parliamentary questions from the Labour Party here in the plenary. If, in a very quiet, sometimes extremely relaxed meeting, it is possible for the deaf to manage to do so with one proposal, they should be allowed to make a fuss of themselves as advocates of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van der Molen. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by thanking the proposers, their predecessors and their supporters for their initiative. I know from experience how much work is going to be in there. I love to see how passionately you have defended your proposal here. Many thanks to the people who have been working for so long in the community for this law. Thanks also to everyone in the public gallery who has come again today to follow this debate. You're very welcome. It is a very nice and unique debate to be able to experience from the room, this debate about the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language. Seneca, the Roman philosopher, once said: the language reflects the soul. I believe that's true. That is precisely why I believe that it is extremely important that the Dutch Sign Language is recognised. He says something about who you are. Language is your identity. I think that's the heart of the matter tonight. We talked about the positive effects, we talked about the symbolic effects, but I think the core of what we're talking about today is being who you are. That is a very important start, but we are not there yet. I wish it were that simple. I think that is something that has been said about it today. It's an important step, but we're not there yet. Therefore, commitment to an inclusive society remains desperately needed, for example in our education. I will continue to work for this as an educational spokesperson. Mr. Chairman. Because we are not yet there with just this law and because it is also important to inform the whole community about it I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language (NGT) is of great importance for both the identity of the community of deaf and hearing impaired and the rights acquired by it;]] [[Whereas it is important to inform the deaf and the hearing impaired;]] [[invites the government, if the bill is adopted in both chambers, to actively inform the community of deaf and hearing impaired about anchoring this bill in policy and legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Van der Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34562-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u58	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. I would like to thank the authors very much for their comprehensive reply and also the Minister. I realized that, although the Christian Union is a warm supporter of this bill, I had asked quite a lot of questions in the first term. But there has been a clear answer to that. The proposers have made it very clear that the legal anchoring is one. It will be well arranged when I count the heads of the political groups who have already expressed a positive opinion on this matter. But in practice it will have to prove that this is a good place. The Frisian language has gone before us. So I agree with the suggestion that Mr Van der Molen has just put forward in a question to the authors: how do the proposers look at the fact that the minister, who has an exemplary role and a leading role, makes administrative arrangements with the deaf community in order to really give them a place? The deaf community has been fighting for that recognition for almost 30 years. It's almost time. The journal, the conversation with the Prime Minister and the christmas speech of the King are already translated live into the Dutch Sign language, but we can also do more as a Chamber. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas important television broadcasts, such as the Throne speech and the Coronaper Conference, are already translated live by an interpreter of Dutch Sign language;]] [[believes that important activities and debates in the Lower House should also be accessible to deaf and hearing impaired persons;]] [[invites the Bureau, together with the NPO, to agree on the translation into the Dutch Sign Language of at least weekly Question Time, the General Political Reviews and the final debate for the Dutch Parliamentary Elections, and to inform the Chamber within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Graaf, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34562-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u59	Then I'll close with the following words. At the end of the debate in the first term, I was reminded by Twitter that the word'sign speakers' had been used for the first time in that debate. I understand this has been maintained since 1995. I've counted it four times today, too. I wish the authors very much success in defending their bill, so that the word "sign languages" may sound very often here in the House of Representatives, but certainly later in the House of Representatives, and so that the recognition of sign language can really become a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u60	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I'll say something about the motion addressed to the Bureau later, but I'll do it last. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u61	Yes, Mr President, I also found that last motion extremely interesting. I'm very curious to know what you're going to say about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u62	I'm keeping the tension on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u63	A standard provision for Question Time, the General Reviews and the final debate. Well, fantastic. Perhaps one day we will do so at every debate. Maybe. I'm very curious. I think the SP is going to support that motion. Mr. Chairman. The SP is also going to support this law, because it is just a very good law, which is beautiful and which can perhaps be made even more beautiful. You're guessing. I tabled an amendment with Mr Jetten to ensure that sign interpreters are also available to those who depend on sign language in the case law and that the parties do not have to bear the costs themselves. It is important that justice is accessible to all, even if people are dependent on a sign interpreter. That is what the explanatory statement states. It actually seems to me a very nice addition to your law. Mr. Chairman. The same goes for the next motion I'm going to table. It is a bit like the amendment, but the motion is about the people in a social workshop. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas deaf sign speakers in social workshops are now not entitled to an interpreter from the existing interpretation facility;]] [[noting that it does not allow them to attend meetings or hold talks with their managers;]] [[calls on the government to realise that deaf sign speakers in social workshops are entitled to an interpreter from the existing interpretation facility,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34562-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u64	I have been told that the implementation of this motion may relate to the Participation Act. That is why I have tabled a motion and not an amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u65	Thank you, Mr. Jasper van Dijk. Finally, I give the floor to Mr El Yassini on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the initiators for answering the questions. I have already congratulated them on the fact that they have come up with this initiative at all, that they have put it on the political agenda and that they are calling attention to it. That's very nice. My colleague Mrs Van der Graaf spoke of the word'sign speakers'. And what does it turn out to be? It hasn't been recorded in the Fat Van Dale yet. So it would be fantastic if the Fat Van Dale were listening in at the moment and we had "sign speakers" in the next edition of the Fat Van Dale. That would be really nice. Thank you once again to the initiators for the answers to the questions. A number of points are ticked off. One of the points had to do with the financial consequences. Initiator Van Eijs talked about the fact that there is a lot of regulation, including with regard to coverage when it comes to interpreting, for example. But I also hear that the Minister, in her capacity as advisor to the Chamber, is discussing this proposal on the obligation to do so in Article 3. My colleague Mr Van der Molen of the CDA already referred to this and asked what exactly happened to the demarcation. For us, it is now a little more unclear what these costs will ultimately be, regardless of the coverage. I understand, of course, the President made a point of saying that it is not natural that promoters then come to the Chamber with financial support, but Article 3 does have consequences for how this legislative amendment is implemented, with all the financial consequences. My second question to the initiators is whether they can go into more detail about the tightening up of Article 3 in relation to the obligation of effort. How do the initiators see it for themselves, also with a view to getting a clear picture of what it's going to cost, how we're going to pay for it in the end, how much we all want it? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u67	Mr Jetten has a question, Mr El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u68	I think we have all asked questions about this: how are we going to get into a process where we are constantly working on the better embedding of sign language in our daily society? I do have one question for Mr El Yassini in response to this second term. Could it be another argument for the VVD Group not to support this bill if it has more insight into its financial consequences? Or is it going to support this bill in any case and does it think it is particularly important for the successful implementation of this proposal in order to gain more insight into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u69	For me, the following is important, and that is a matter of concern that we genuinely take with us. It is not so much a question of being told by the Minister as an advisor to the Chamber that it costs a certain amount. 'Cause you could take that into account. Then you can consider: I'll do it, I won't do it, I'll take cover for it, do I do my best? I have always said that the VVD is very benevolent and open to and think about solutions, especially for the deaf community. That is very important to us. However, the Minister also states in her opinion that it is not now known what the costs will be. Apart from the fact that you already know and so can weigh which way you go, it is not yet clear to the Chamber what it can cost. That's a little off guard. I am therefore very interested in the answer given by the initiators in the second term. Maybe they can give us a little more clarity, specifically at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u70	As far as I am concerned, because it is such a fundamental point, we should actually say to the Minister: figure it out on the departments and with the fellow governments; we think this is so important that we are going to do it anyway. But let me ask Mr El Yassini if he can follow Mr Van der Molen's thinking that you are going to see how with the advisory board, a little bit similar to the Frisian language, we can move forward step by step. Does he also see that it is very difficult to see the whole picture now and that you can't really attach it to the smallest detail in Article 3 of this law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u71	It does not seem to me that the chairman of the D66 group says to this D66 minister: figure it out. That's possible, but that wouldn't be my choice. I welcome the fact that there is at least that conversation and that discussion, but I am very curious about the answers of the initiators and how they look at it. For the same reason, the initiators say that we want to take a closer look at Article 3 and define it further. Or they say, "We'll release it." But those are the answers we're looking for. And again, the recognition is really very important. I'm in favour of that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u72	Once it's about money, it gets a little complicated at the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u73	Yeah, I hope so!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u74	I have a specific question. This initiative proposal is primarily about legal recognition. The second step should be a plan of action. Of course, there are some modules of funding underneath that. That can be discussed. Is it still important for you to vote against this bill before you understand that plan of action? Or are you fully in favour of the legal recognition of the Dutch Sign Language at the moment and do you agree with us that the further process and process will then be completed further? It's unclear to me. What's it gonna be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u75	Maybe I can clarify it a little more. That is precisely why, when the Minister gave her advice to the Chamber, I just interrupted to clarify what the Minister said. I asked about Article 3: is that something within that plan of action, which ultimately falls under this cabinet and this minister? Or is it actually an advice with which it sends a signal to the initiators regarding the tightening of that demarcation? The Minister replied: the latter. When it comes to money, you're right. Money is scarce at this time. So I would also like to see where the possibilities are. But GroenLinks cannot say: we do not know what it will be; we have no idea, and that is fine with us. I have to weigh up certain decisions. This includes financial accountability, including towards my constituents, as well as you should do towards your constituents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u76	Now we're turning things around a little bit. I have made it clear that we are in favour of this legal recognition. I still can't hear you say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u77	But this is about the initiative proposal of the initiators. I complimented you on that, too. But that own-initiative proposal also refers to Article 3 in relation to this commitment. In addition, the Minister's advice is: make sure that you have a little more stricter demarcation, because otherwise what the financial picture is will not be clear at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u78	You already said that, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u79	That is very important to us. That is why I am curious to see what the initiators will answer in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u80	But apart from the Minister: the VVD will also have to judge the law as it stands and as it has been discussed this evening. Does the VVD support this law or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u81	A brief answer, Mr. El Yassini.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u82	Well, a brief answer... I'd like to wait for an answer from the initiators. I think that is exactly what my colleague Mr Van der Molen has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u83	So you don't know?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u84	He said, "I'm curious what they're saying about that tighter demarcation."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u85	There's something I need to get off my chest. We heard great words here earlier in the evening about the importance and commitment in education. We heard a lot of beautiful words. Then I'll find the question in its place what those words are worth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u86	Those words are worth a lot, because there is indeed. But we all have a responsibility as a parliament to ensure that we talk to the initiators about what this initiative means. I'm very curious, too. I'm not saying I'm dismissive either. Now it seems like the VVD is saying: for us the party is off. It is very important for us that we have a balance to make. We do that with a lot of responsibility. This also includes the part of Article 3 relating to the increased demarcation. I wonder what the answer is. Based on that answer, we'll see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u87	This is gonna be a repeat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u88	Yeah, exactly. I think this is the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u89	It will indeed be a repetition, but I do find it complicated, because, as the President said, the financial picture is not what is going on tonight. What is before us tonight is a very fundamental question, namely: do we, as a Chamber, think that the Dutch Sign Language deserves legal recognition? In my view, that is a very simple question, which I think the majority of those present really answers with a full yes. I don't hear that from the VVD. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u90	Let me put it this way: this initiative proposal is much broader, because it also has to do with this commitment. I would very much like the Dutch Sign Language to be recognized. I think that's very important. Then it is important to see what that means for all of us. This also has to do with the obligation to do so in Article 3. I am very curious how the initiators respond to this. We are very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u91	I hear between the lines that Mr El Yassini is positive, but I would like to say one thing. I understand the questions about how much it costs. We're in the Netherlands, so that's part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u92	So you are going to translate what Mr El Yassini said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u93	Yes, Mr. Chairman, but in my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u94	Not sign language, but... Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u95	I would really like to say that this is such an essential point. For people who are watching the debate here in the gallery, but also at home, the recognition of the Dutch Sign Language is priceless. I would very much like to hear from El Yassini whether he shares that, because it is so big for that group that it is not possible to express it in money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u96	That recognition is incredibly important. Let's put that first. It is really important for us to ensure that this is done as well as possible. But the questions I ask are specifically about Article 3. This is an initiative proposal that is somewhat broader than that. I am indeed genuinely curious about the answers of the initiators. But that does not mean that we say that we do not want the Dutch Sign Language to be recognized. That would be a shame, of course. It's important to us that we keep having that conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u97	I think you made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u98	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u99	Thank you, Mr. El Yassini. I'm suspending the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u100	I give Mrs Kuik the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u101	Mr President, thank you very much. It's been a pleasure standing here again. I would like to thank all the Members of our Chamber who have already expressed their support. That gives confidence to the path we must walk together. However, a fair question has also been asked about Article 3 on its scope and how it will work in the near future. In my view, we have actually given a rather clear answer to this in the explanatory statement, namely that we expect a plan of action from the Minister and that she reports annually on it. The role of the advisory board is not without reason so explicit because the advisory board obviously has a role to play in advising the minister on how to gradually shape that recognition in policy. We are also very much looking at the example of the Frisian language. There, for example, they work with administrative agreements. We have the equivalent of an advisory college. That way, I think you can shape that very neatly. By the way, it is anecdotal that, at the time of the adoption of the law on the Frisian language, there was no financial paragraph on the exact costs. That does not alter the fact that this is a very legitimate question. Mr. Chairman. We really do not expect that at the time this bill has been passed in the First Chamber, there is a kind of magical stick so that everything is immediately arranged for the deaf and the hearing impaired. Some things may be a little more complicated or complex. However, I would like to ask that we at least go for the quick step and the quick wins, as Mrs Van den Hul called them. Those are things that are already within our reach and that we can probably manage very well with a very small effort. They are also things that we find almost self-evident and very logical. That is the practical aspect of the issue. I would also like to point out that this recognition has not only practical value, but also symbolic value. We now have the opportunity to recognise this language, to recognise identity and to recognise the mother tongue with the entire Chamber after 30 years. Then I am convinced that we can deal with these practical matters in a good, orderly and sensible way. For example, Mr El Yassini thinks I am on his side to do this in a good way. I say it to Mr El Yassini because he explicitly asked, but I also say it to Mr Van der Molen. That is why I would like to address you in particular. I hope that in the end, when we talk about the votes for perhaps next week or two weeks, we will have the conviction to reach a positive verdict in all the political groups. Mr. Chairman. I think I have answered most of the questions. I shall now turn to the motions. I shall conclude with the amendment. The motion in part No. 12 by Mr Jetten and Mrs van den Hul, on education, such as the use of interpreters, over 30 years old. We have already indicated and replied that we want to support this wholeheartedly. That'll give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 13 by Mrs Van den Hul and Mrs Van der Graaf, on informing the community and actively involving them in the further implementation when the law is recognised. The advisory board also plays a role in this. We support this motion wholeheartedly, of course, and it is judged by the Chamber. The motion in part No. 14 by Mrs Van der Graaf and others, on the steps we can now take, the Presidium requests that we agree with the NPO on Question Time, the General Political Reviews and the final debate. That's a motion we'd like to support and give Chamber judgment. I think the President is going to say something about this in conclusion. The motion in part No. 15 by Mr Van Raak... Sorry about Mr. Jasper van Dijk. It's a compliment. We want to support that motion in emotion, but if we are very honest, we have not given it enough thought. We think it's nice to ask the Secretary of State for Social Affairs how he looks at it. We'll come back to that later. I would therefore like to ask you if you could hold the motion for a moment so that we can do it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u102	Mr Van Dijk, Jasper van Dijk. Yes, we have a lot of Van Dijken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u103	"Mr. Van Rijk" came by the other day. I'd be happy to hold the motion. If the proposers ask me to do so, I am the last to oppose it. Then let us agree to ask the Secretary of State for a response as soon as possible, so that we can deal with this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u104	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (34562), No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u105	Mr Van Dijk has known me a little longer. I think I'm anything but slow. The same goes for my co-subscribers. So we're definitely gonna do that. Then there is the amendment to item No. 11 by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Jetten, on the anchoring in the legal system, so to speak, for short. Prior to that, I would like to say that we have chosen not to make a rather limited legislative proposal in order to complete it further together with the minister, the advisory board and the deaf community themselves. Nevertheless, it is very much in line with the way in which it is now regulated in the legislation on the Frisian language. Seems like some kind of basic need. That makes us give the judgment Chamber. However, I do think it is appropriate to give you the response to this amendment on the one hand and on the other, so that you can decide on it wisely. Mr President, I will conclude. Again, thank you very much. Thanks also to the Minister, who, of course, always has to explain things a little bit from the government's point of view. I especially heard a very positive basic attitude and tone. That gives us the conviction... We hope that after a positive conclusion in this Chamber we will be able to move towards the Upper House with confidence. In any case, we are going to do so with great pleasure and enthusiasm, together with the people from the deaf community who have helped us so far. I salute everyone in the bleachers. Thank you very much. To be continued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u107	That is what we are done with, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u108	Well, I thought the Minister had something to say. Oh, Mr. Jasper van Dijk, too, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u109	Oh, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u110	No, no, no. The chairman was going to say something about that motion. I'm so excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u111	I'm just keeping the tension in. But maybe it's good to do it now. The motion indeed asks the Bureau to make oral Question Time, the General Political Reviews and the final debate for the Lower Parliament elections accessible to the deaf community. I can tell you about the General Political Reviews, which are next week, that we will arrange them with a sign interpreter via livestream, so that the deaf can follow it happily. We are discussing Question Time and the final debate. I think we will have an answer to that before Christmas, and I think we will be able to do the same. So my question to Mrs Van der Graaf is whether this has given her sufficient assurances to withdraw this motion, because we were already working on it within the Bureau.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u112	Madam President, what a fantastic message! And that we can do that right away next week. We saw during this debate and last week how wonderful it is when our debates are performed live. As far as I am concerned, this commitment by the President on behalf of the Presidium is very good, and we are happy to look forward to the letter and withdraw the motion. We are very pleased with this solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u113	Since the motion-Van der Graaf c.s. (, No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u114	Thank you. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u115	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, on my part, a few points, and also on my part, a response to some of the motions when they see something called for by the government. Mr Jetten said it very nicely: it is actually a foundation, this law. If this law is passed, it is indeed a good foundation on which a nice extension of the building can take place. I would like to correct another misunderstanding that has arisen between Mr Van der Molen and myself. Indeed, in considering the side of BZK, the initiators also talked about the option to arrange this through a covenant. But at that stage we have actually abandoned that and we have also gone along with the idea that it could and should be through an initiative law, and that proposal on our part never reached your Chamber in that way. Then there are the few motions I would like to make in addition to what the initiators have said about them. As far as the Jetten/Van den Hul motion was concerned, I had already promised a letter from the colleagues of OCW and SZW in my first term. It is also their policy area, so I find it difficult to give an appreciation of it here for my part. So if the petitioners wanted an appreciation, they could wait for the letter I already promised and hold the motion. Unless, of course, I have to have a word with the colleagues and then send them an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u116	Mr Van den Hul and I are prepared to hold the motion, but I would ask the Minister to urge her colleagues not to wait too long to send that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u117	I would like to say this to Mr Jetten, and to Mrs van den Hul, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u118	At the request of Mr Jetten, I propose his motion (34562), No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u119	Then there is the second motion, which is part No. 13. On the government side, I would like to support it. I take it for granted that we will then actively inform the community of deaf and hearing impaired. And now for the fourth motion, that of Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u120	He's already been apprehended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u121	Yes, sir, he was apprehended. That's good, because I was going to ask you the same thing, but that had already happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u122	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the debate on this legislative initiative. I do not want to close this debate until I have thanked the initiators, Mrs Kuik, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mrs Van Eijs, and Mr Roza as a supporter for their efforts. And I thank all the people in the public gallery and the people who have followed this debate through the live stream. And the interpreters, of course, who have made it possible for everyone to have really been able to follow the debate, deserve a great deal of thanks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-28.u123	I can tell you, but I have already done so, that we will make the General Political Reviews accessible next week and that there will be a sign interpreter through the live stream to translate that debate. And in connection with Princess Day and the subsequent General Political Reviews, the legislative initiative proposal will not be put to the vote next week, but on Tuesday, 22 September. I thank everyone!
