ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the continuation of the discussion of the legislative proposal 35130, Proposal of the National Law of Members Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijngaarden and Van Ojik laying down rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. We continue with the response by the initiators.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is extraordinary to be in this room today, at the invitation of your Chamber. Today is also a day with a historic load. Four years ago, on 23 June, the British went to the ballot box and decided to leave the European Union. The Brexit: a turning point in history. It is also a great honour to be able to speak in your Chamber, especially in this stately Knight's Room, where simple Lower House members like myself normally only have three cheers. This time I can have a little more words on my vocals. Thank you for that, too. It is also a great honour to do so on behalf of my fellow petitioners: Mr Asscher, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Van Wijngaarden. Three of them are temporarily prevented at the moment. I have to excuse them for a roll-call vote in the Lower House. You will undoubtedly appreciate the importance of roll-call votes at this time. They will join us as soon as possible, because colleague Van Otterloo is here. Fortunately, I am strengthened by an advisor who is dear to this house and who is also very well known to you: the Secretary of State for Justice and Security. I'm grateful to her for being here. But I also think I speak for all of us when I say that we would rather not be here today, that we would rather not have had this debate and that we would rather not have needed this emergency law to help Dutch people in the United Kingdom. Mr Kox of the SP said it nicely: this is a bill that nobody will regret if it does not come into force. And so it is, Mr President, because then the rights of Dutch people in the United Kingdom would also be sufficiently protected. But now that the situation for Dutch people in the United Kingdom is still precarious, our law is needed, much needed even, to help these Dutch. That is why we are here today with full conviction. I will come back to that later. Before I start replying, I would like to mention a number of people, because many of you have rightly referred to the great importance of own-initiative legislation. It is fair to say that legislation like this could not come about without the support of many selfless volunteers. This is, among other things, the association of Europeans in the United Kingdom: the3million. My special thanks go to Monique Hawkins, Hedwig Hegtermans and Nicole Wevers. Thanks also to Laurens Brouwer and Edwin Brijder of the Ministry of Justice and Security, our own office Legislation and of course Floor van der Zee and Carsten Zwaaneveld for the work behind the scenes. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity, we are not talking today about the usefulness, necessity, desirability and undesirableness of the Brexit. You can differ on that, as we saw in this Chamber today. We do not talk in general about the advantages and disadvantages of dual nationality, even though Mrs Vos and Mrs Karimi spoke of their experience of nationality and identity. What we are talking about today is the undesirable negative impact of the Brexit on more than 100,000 Dutch people in the UK. Mr Van der Burg of the VVD said about this in his beautiful maiden speech that politics is really about standing up for people who remain unheard of. That's right. These Dutch live far from here. They cannot be in the public gallery today, but they are looking at this debate in large numbers from a distance, digitally. They hope that their voice, which normally does not sound loud in our Chambers, will still sound loud today. For them, the initiators want to hang this safety net. A safety net for 100,000 Dutch people to reverse the negative consequences of the Brexit through nationality law. And it is true that several speakers have pointed out that there is a difference of opinion on nationality law, and I dare to tell you that there are also those who take the initiative. That won't be a secret. We consider it all the more special that this law has been widely approved in the House of Representatives: from the SP to the Forum for Democracy and from GroenLinks to the VVD. Mr Van Rooijen, co-initiator in the Lower House, said it strikingly: people above rules. And Mrs Nanninga of the Forum for Democracy said that sometimes something goes beyond party politics. And I think that's what this is about today. Mrs Karimi asked Mr Van Wijngaarden directly about nationality law. He is not here now, but at the end of my speech he promised me that he would be happy to answer your questions personally. He will. What binds us to the initiators and I hope also to yourself is our belief, from left to right, that we must provide a solution to the uncertainty and problems that Dutch people face in the United Kingdom. We want to do this by giving them the opportunity, under clear conditions, to accept British nationality, without losing Dutch nationality. This is how we offer them security and thus we offer them perspective. The Dutch who have already acquired British nationality after the Brexireferendum and have for that reason given up the Dutch have an option right, which allows them to regain Dutch citizenship. As Dutch political parties, we took the responsibility where the British left it. Nevertheless, Mr President, if I may, I would like to make one comment on nationality law, and that is this one. For the initiators: a Dutchman is a Dutchman, regardless of origin, regardless of sex, regardless of sexual preference, regardless of skin colour. Article 1 of the Constitution is sacred to us, and I say that as an atheist. So to clarify to Mr Van Hattem of the PVV: or the Dutchman who is in trouble in the UK because of the Brexit, now called Hassan or Alexander, we don't care. We want to treat all Dutch equally. Mr President, having said that, I would like to thank all my fellow Members in this Chamber for their contributions. With some parties I tasted a constructive attitude. A number of parties outside this Chamber have already given their support, for which I am grateful. Others have shared the dilemmas that I hope we can overcome. But I understand these dilemmas very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u4	However, I would like to respond to the false frame that Mr Sjoerdsma puts here, as if I were going to treat people of a different color or something else. That is absolutely not the case. I have been talking here all along about nationality, British nationality, Dutch nationality or possibly Somali nationality, and possibly residence status in the Netherlands. Those are the elements I have appointed. So I really don't think it's a good idea for you to include this now. I have made it clear that this is a group that is a large part of the group that is in England. They have a Somali nationality or a residence status in the Netherlands and come from Somalia. That's what it's about. This has also been discussed very extensively in the House of Representatives. We're talking about a group of 30,000 or maybe 40,000 people. It's a significant part. So it's not about color or anything. This is really about nationality. I'd like to make that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u5	It's good to make that right. But I would also say in this: Whoever fits the shoe, put it on. My point here is very clear and it is an important point to defend in this honorable First Chamber: this law is intended for anyone with Dutch nationality who is in trouble because of the Brexit in the United Kingdom. And whether that person also has another nationality, be it the Belgian or the Somali, does not matter to the initiators. I would hope that doesn't matter to any of the people here. You can, of course, be against this law. That is your right, and that is how your group voted in the House of Representatives. However, I would like to make it very clear that this law applies to every Dutchman in the United Kingdom, regardless of nationality, regardless of religion, as far as the initiators are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u6	"Regardless of nationality," that's just the stumbling block. We are having a discussion here about a law that allows for multiple nationalities. As far as I'm concerned, that's the crux. And that's why I thought it was very unwelcome that colour and everything was added. I didn't use the word "color" and I won't use it in this discussion either. I hope you will take those words back after all. This is a matter of nationality. These are several nationalities that are made possible by this law. And that is what the debate should be about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u7	Of course, Mr Van Hattem is right about that. That is also something that we should be able to discuss. That is also why I told him that I do not care what this person is called in the United Kingdom. I don't care if that person's name is Hassan, as Mr Van Hattem himself said, or Alexander. I don't care. It shouldn't matter to the initiators either, because they are Dutch. You are now making a distinction on the basis of nationality. Of course you can. I don't think that's quite the choice myself. But in this case it is Dutch, regardless of any other nationality they still have. I think that is also important for Mr Van Hattem's further speech. He's talking about Somali Dutch people coming back. They're coming back because of the insecurities of the Brexit, I'd like to tell him. I think that Mr van der Burg has spoken excellently about this. They're coming back because of the uncertainty in the United Kingdom. If it's your goal to not have these people in our country anymore, it wouldn't necessarily be mine, then you must be before this law. This law is excellently suited for this, because it prevents the uncertainty that makes these people now go back to cities like you called it Tilburg and Almere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr Van Hattem, a third interruption on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u9	It is again an assumption that they all come back because of the Brexit. My point was that this group is looking at where it benefits most and in which country it can obtain the best standard of living, in the Netherlands or in England. That is precisely that back and forth skippering that is made possible with multiple nationalities. I would simply like to put an end to that, which is now being made clear: if you choose Britain, you choose Britain; if you choose the Netherlands, it is the Netherlands, and then it is just the point. If that's the choice, I think they'll stay massively in Britain. You say, "Whether they're Hassan or Alexander." I deliberately cited Hassan as someone with a random name who might be working in a qat shop in Manchester. The question is how these contracts are dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u10	Mr. Van Hattem, as you know, an interruption is intended for a brief question. You are now dealing with your third question on this point. I learned from my teacher: three times and then it's "tant piss." I would therefore ask you to ask one more short question on this point, then give Mr Sjoerdsma the opportunity to answer and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u11	It was actually more of an interruption by Mr Sjoerdsma in my direction, so I had to respond to this. Here's what I asked you. If people have a contract of employment, a contract of employment in the United Kingdom, I have an arbitrary name in it, is that sufficient proof that they have actually been resident in the United Kingdom? Then it may well be that someone is staying in Tilburg, not registered there, but has a contract of employment in the United Kingdom. That's what the question was about. I used a random name for that. It's a shame you're offended by that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you. Mr. Sjoerdsma, continue your argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u13	I'd like to answer this for a moment. Mr Van Hattem says: I did not say that I fear these people will come back. I wouldn't quote him literally, but he cited the CDA input in the House of Representatives. My colleague in the Lower House of the CDA, Mrs Van Toorenburg, told me about her great fear that these Somali Dutch would return to the Netherlands massively. She also had indications that this was already happening at that time. Mr Van Hattem cited that example as a fear. I do not share that fear, but I do agree that if that choice is made, as Mr Van Hattem says, these people will choose to go back to the Netherlands and not to stay there. Mr Van Hattem's assumption that, if they did not have the option to remain Dutch and still become British, they would all remain in Britain, is being lied to, not only by the facts, but also by his own contribution in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u14	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u15	Having said that, let me once again thank all the Members of this Chamber for their contributions in the first term. With some parties I tasted a constructive attitude. A number of parties outside this Chamber supported it and again some had some serious dilemmas that I really understand. I'll see if I can take away any of that struggle or any of those dilemmas. I don't know if it's gonna work, but I'm gonna do my best. We have chosen to speak on behalf of the co-subscribers, with the exception of one specific question to Mr Van Wijngaarden. He'll answer it himself. To be of service to your Chamber, I have tried to complete this answer in the so-called cubes, not per person, but per subject. I hope it works out. First of all, I would like to address the need for this law. As many speakers have said, last year we were in a very different situation. At that time, a no-dealbrexit was explicitly threatened, whereby the Dutch in the United Kingdom would lose their civil rights. This also affects Mr Van Rooijen's question of 50PLUS. He asked about the adverse consequences of such a no-dealbrexit, i.e. a UK exit without agreement on civil rights for Dutch people in the UK. There are problems of residence law, work permits, opportunities for return to the Netherlands and the cost of study. These are tasks of an emotional nature, because the Dutch in the United Kingdom are faced with the following choice: am I British and do I renounce my Dutch citizenship or am I still Dutch and am I confronted with the fact that I may be considered as a foreigner, as a third-country national, in the United Kingdom, with all the consequences? The adoption of British nationality would have major consequences, for example the loss of Union citizenship and all the benefits associated with it. Conversely, maintaining Dutch citizenship and becoming a foreigner in the UK would also create great uncertainty for the Dutch in the UK, for example in the area of right of residence. The Dutch still face this dilemma. I will explain this in a moment. Jumping point at that debate in the Lower House at that time was the question whether the exit agreement would be adopted or not. Two British prime ministers were killed there. In the end, this exit agreement was adopted last January. The question that remains is whether the civil rights contained in the exit agreement are adequately secured in practice. A number of you have expressly considered this. At the moment, my answer to that is no. I'll explain why. I have two clear reasons. First of all, I would like to mention the explicit danger of this civil rights deal being revoked. At the moment, the UK Government is negotiating with the European Union on the future of the relationship between them. This is about everything, but this is really about trade, about big, economic interests. But these negotiations on the trade agreement are in danger of falling apart. Looks like they're beaching. On 5 June, Brexit negotiator Barnier pointed out that the Brexit negotiations were not progressing and that the views on the trade relationship between the UK and the European Union were really very different. On 10 July last, Minister Blok warned in the Lower House that we should prepare for a no-deal again. This is, of course, about the trading part. We need to make a clear distinction. Minister Blok therefore intends to extend his Brexit Collection Act. This may affect the implementation arrangements. Some of you talked about that, too. I would like to make it clear that this may also lead to Prime Minister Johnson trying to get his way in the trade field by bringing civil rights back into play. This can happen if things are going to be difficult and if they do not get what they want because the European Union stands firm. Several experts have warned about this in recent times. For example, Barnier said in a letter, i.e. written, that he was deeply concerned that Johnson was watering down and weakening the protection and civil rights of EU citizens in the UK. If this were to happen, the civil rights part of the exit agreement would be nullified de facto. As long as this possibility exists, we think it wise to hang this safety net. Secondly, we need to look at how the agreements in the exit agreement are currently being implemented. Our own appreciation of this is that these agreements are not being implemented adequately when it comes to civil rights. Let me explain this briefly. First of all, the way in which these civil rights are included. In the Netherlands these are contained in a way that Parliament has very great control over them. In Britain, they have chosen to include civil rights in secondary laws and regulations, which means that Prime Minister Johnson's government can decide to amend them without Parliament's intervention and agreement. A second on this point. When we look at the practice, we see both attitudes and incidents which in practice prevent the lack of respect for civil rights. I'd like to mention a few things. First of all, the British Government's attitude towards EU citizens. In the first instance, the British Government indicated that the right of residence, and indeed the civil rights of citizens at all, would be guaranteed unilaterally and without problems. After that, they had to be actively registered. But registration turns out to be a very difficult process in practice and an annoying offspring is that incorrect or untimely registration can lead to deportation. If you think that the chance of deportation is not so bad, I would like to remind you of a scandal in the UK from 2018, the Windrush scandal. Not only were 83 immigrants born in Britain, but at least they were deported, but many were also unjustly detained. They've lost their jobs or their homes. Benefits and medical care to which they were entitled have been refused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u16	Before I interrupt, I would like to thank you for understanding the dilemmas we are facing in this Chamber. Otherwise, we're gonna go right into the depths and forget for a second that we're gonna have a level of debate, I hope, where we're gonna try to find each other. I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma a few questions on his first point later, but now I have a question on this second point. The question to what extent, for example, the right of residence would have been guaranteed, even in the case of a hard Brexit, has, of course, already been quite discussed in the Lower House at the time. If you had the intention of meeting the points I have raised... You can see, of course, the change in the game since Johnson and his agreement in the House of Commons. My question is: did what you just said about the problems of implementing the right of residence not even before the scenario in which a hard Brexit was discussed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u17	That's a good question. I thank you for starting with these dilemmas, because I can well imagine that there are dilemmas surrounding this law. We have talked about nationality legislation. You can think different about that. You can think differently about how you stand with respect to a Brexit and a Nexit. These are very important points, which can have a major impact on the positions. I must say that I very much liked your input in the first period of time the openness to see if we can finally come out together. You're talking about the right of residence. Maybe I should take an example from that, because you say that we already knew about Windrush, so shouldn't that have played a role in the assessment sooner? I'm telling you, that's probably true. But let me give you an example of what is going on here. This is something we couldn't have known before the exit agreement was approved by Parliament. Let me quote that example. It's about registering as an EU citizen. Many do not succeed and some do not get the right status. But if you did succeed and you did get that status, then the big problem is that Dutch people in the UK are now experiencing there, that they are not getting proof that they are registered. They don't get physical evidence, just digital evidence. It is very unfortunate that this means that, for example, landlords and employers, who are responsible in the UK for establishing the correct residence status of their tenants or employees, say: "I cannot easily check your status. I don't know if I can trust this website. I do not know if this website is accessible, or has not been accessible at all." The result is increasing discrimination in the housing market and the labour market against European citizens, because they do not have that physical evidence. This is simply an example that came after the entry into force of the exit agreement and shows that these problems do indeed still exist. I am very concerned about this and I believe that the other applicants are also concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u18	Thank you for this clear answer, but this means that you are actually saying a little bit that you said too easily in that situation at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u19	That too is a good question and partly a question of conscience. Can I answer that question with a yes and a no in the open of this debate? When we look back at this whole Brexit process, I think we should see together that it was a roller coaster where we all lived between hope and fear. Then again it seemed to come to a deal, then a British Prime Minister resigned, then perhaps a certain deal came and then another Prime Minister resigned. At the beginning of this process, when I got the idea that we had to do something for these Dutch people, I could never have known, and with me, my fellow Members, what turns we would all take in this process and what uncertainties and problems we would encounter for Dutch people in the UK. In that respect, the answer is no. But shouldn't I have given more emphasis to the fact that there should be an exit agreement in the House of Representatives, but also to that part of the sentence, which, by the way, is in the law, namely "sufficient security"? Yes, in retrospect, I think we should have thought more strongly about that. I have also seen your written questions and I think that in the run-up to this debate it would have been clearer that the practical implementation is of course also extremely important and that it is not just about the agreements on paper. Paper is patient, but if people's lives still have big problems, then we also have to look at the practice. Mr. Chairman. I will continue my speech. I had come to those practical examples. I mentioned the attitude of the British Government and the Windrush scandal. I have just briefly referred to the CDA MP's practical problems on the housing market and on the labour market. To get another feeling: the last European elections have also seen Europeans in the United Kingdom how limited their rights actually were. Their voice could not be cast or delayed and did not count. These are very serious infringements. The right to vote, the right to vote, is very essential for a citizen of a country. The burden of this lasting uncertainty is on the Dutch in the UK, who today still do not know where they stand after four years. Unfortunately, they are the victims of this uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the second part. This concerns the target group and the number of applications. I see that Mr Doornhof wishes to comment on the first point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u20	I am going to go into the first point. We will think about the second point, where implementation is concerned. On the first point, you said that EU citizens' rights will now be the focus of negotiations. You can say that they are well on paper in the withdrawal agreement. It may be a difficult question to answer, but can you give examples of rights that are more or less abandoned by the negotiations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u21	That's a good question. No rights are currently given. I mean that the British Government and the British Parliament have ratified the exit agreement. In principle, this is contained in secondary legislation. If you look at the letter of the law or the secondary regulation, to be precise, that says the exit agreement. Did Boris Johnson publicly say that with this right they're gonna bargain a little bit, that they're gonna shove it under the carpet a little bit? No, absolutely not. But it is really important that, in the examples I mentioned, there is a change of attitude in the British Government of "don't worry, you will get your rights automatically," to "you must register them actively, to: if you don't register them, you may be deported," with in the background that great scandal plus the practical examples that Dutch people in the UK now encounter in the area of housing market and labour market. I am very concerned about that. If you are referring to the attitude of Prime Minister Johnson himself to these civil rights, I will not quote him myself, but I will quote Mr Barnier again. Some people in this Chamber may think he is a Eurocrat, but he is the negotiator on behalf of the European Union. He has expressed his concerns about this explicitly in a letter, and I take it very seriously myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u22	Then I have the next question to Mr Sjoerdsma. He's probably gonna say yes, because he's shown some understanding of our dilemmas, including the question I'm asking. Do you see that there is also a problem for us as First Chamber, because we often say that we want to keep a close eye on the political primacy of the House of Representatives? We have also seen that a choice has been made, whether you agree or not. However, that choice was based on the withdrawal agreement as the lower limit. The tricky thing now is that I'm going to feel a little bit like a Member of Parliament, because I'm more or less going to have to make the primary assessment of the need to apply for a British passport and what the consequences are, namely that you lose Dutch nationality. I find it a little difficult, I say quite honestly, to make that balance of interests now. That brings me to a specific question. If I have to do something, if I have to judge instead of the House of Representatives whether you are still saying yes to this law in the current state of affairs, then I say: why talk about it at this time? Then I would say that we should also look a little more closely at the examples that are on the table and at the rights that disappear on paper, so that we can make the balance of interests a reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u23	First of all, let me say that we could have included really harsh criteria in this law for precisely measuring whether or not these rights are being violated, but that we would always have been overtaken by developments in reality. I will explain this further in a moment. I also come to the question that is your core question, I think: how can we determine when it is sufficient; is it up to the First Chamber? In the Lower House we have said a number of things about it as proposers. We have said that the exit agreement must be there and that it must be ratified, but it must also be sufficiently secure. If you'll allow me, I'll come right back to the fact that "sufficient security" has been secured. I have a rather long answer, because several people have asked for it. The first answer: that "sufficient security" is not in any way before us today either, because it stipulates that the Secretary of State will ultimately decide whether the law will enter into force or not. I know you'd like to ask me more about that. If you'll allow me, I'll go into that in detail. Then I'll try to do justice to what you want. I would like to answer your question about timing already. I see it as follows. This law is a safety net. The First Chamber knotted it to a tree. Excuse me, the Tweede Room knotted it to a tree. The First Chamber could also attach that other part to a tree. Then it's up to the Secretary of State to decide when to do that. But when I look at what the Netherlands and the United Kingdom are experiencing on a daily basis, think of the uncertainty and the problems they still have, I would say: at least let us put that safety net in place, so that as soon as the guarantee of these rights is considered insufficient, the safety net is immediately hanging and we do not have to see that a few more people are accidentally falling out of the trees, people that we have not been able to save. That is also why the proposers wanted to make such a haste with this law. Of course, we would have preferred this law as early as February 2019, when we started, but a thorough legal process takes time and we have to answer the questions properly. But that's what we'd rather have had.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u24	Does Mr Sjoerdsma agree with me that "sufficient" in this case means "equivalent to the situation with EU law"? 'Cause everything you do with citizenship... In other words, citizenship is something more than civil rights as an EU citizen. So that's a bonus you get. But underneath that minimum, it just becomes the situation for an EU citizen who has those rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u25	Could I also ask Mrs Karimi to wait until I get this point by the horns? If she still has this question, I'm very happy to answer it. I have one more part that I would like to deal with in the context of the story, namely the important question of how many people we are doing this for. Mrs. Vos and Mrs. Nanninga asked that. Is there an estimate of the number of Dutch people who would like to make use of this law and which we expect them to work on? The applicants have, of course, been in contact with the IND. It is very difficult to make a precise estimate, because if you are going to live in the UK, registration is not necessary in the Netherlands, even if you are marrying a Brit. You have to live in Britain for at least five or six years. The upper limit is there. I hope that's reassuring enough. We know that the total number of Dutch people in the United Kingdom is about 100,000, no more than that. We also know that some of them are also unfamiliar with the percentage given that they are married to someone with British nationality, will not see the need to use this law. The number of people who will use this law will therefore be lower than 100,000. Nor will that number be able to grow, to reassure Mrs Nanninga. It has been delineated that as a Dutchman you must have lived in the United Kingdom at the time of the referendum until now. If that is not the case, as a Dutchman, you cannot claim this law. So you can't live there soon if you think: I like that British nationality. No, you must have lived there already. So the maximum number is 100,000, but in reality it will be lower. Mr Doornhof, Mrs Karimi, Mr Van der Burg, Mrs Stienen and Mr Van Hattem of the PVV..................................................................................................................................................................... When will these civil rights be sufficiently guaranteed? Is that a legal or political decision? That is what Mr Van der Burg asked. What guarantee does the exit agreement provide for the civil rights of Dutch citizens? That's what Mrs Karimi asked. So what is the impact in the lower regulation? That's what Mrs. Stienen asked. Does the exit agreement not already have sufficient safeguards? That's what Mr Van Hattem asked. The CDA, Mr Doornhof, pointed out the following: "Aren't we changing the lower limit? Isn't that a problem?" You just said it as: I feel a bit like a Member of Parliament. That is in itself a feeling I can recommend to you, but I understand that you may not want that from your part at the moment. First of all, on the lower limit. No, the lower limit hasn't changed. The civil rights contained in the exit agreement must still be sufficiently protected. What has changed, however, is that we have just discussed it in the interrupting debate on short time ago. That has, to put it bluntly, shifted from that exit agreement and the need to get that ratified, the bare minimum, would the British perhaps say: is it enough? And then the question arises: what is sufficient and who decides what is sufficient? Looking at the current state of affairs, the attitude of the British Government and the practice in Britain, the initiators say that implementation is currently inadequate, not enough. But who's gonna decide that in the end? Those are not the proposers. The law states that this law will enter into force by royal decree at the time when the cabinet, the government, makes the assessment that it is the government's own assessment that these rights are insufficiently secured. In the end, therefore, it is also a political weighting, which in person will lie with this Secretary of State, but must of course be borne by the Cabinet. I very much hope that she will also involve the input of the various interest movements and of the House of Representatives at the earliest opportunity. I hope this is clear. I would like to look at Mr Doornhof and Mrs Karimi to see if there are any additional questions on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u26	That would actually mean that, should this Chamber agree to the proposal next week, it would be possible to enter into force immediately, because it would be either a no-deal or a deal with an already inadequate implementation, you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u27	Yeah, it could be. This obviously depends on how the Secretary of State qualifies the situation with regard to civil rights. I'll tell you how the proposers qualify that situation. On the one hand, there is the threat of a no-deal in trade, Mr Johnson's attitude and the fear that he will use a difficult position to get his way through civil rights. On the other hand, there is the practical situation, which we say does not look sufficient at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u28	I'm gonna ask you a harder question. In my first term, I explained in detail that the playing field has changed enormously. I also said that, of course, I have followed the discussion and must have a certain respect for the political balance that the House of Representatives has made. I have literally asked: is it not true that when we had the agreement in the House of Commons, which led the United Kingdom to leave the EU, the initiators should have looked at each other for a moment: what are we doing now? Because, of course, we have opted for a law with a particular technique. Mr Kox has said that you can have your views on this. But I also see the dilemma. I'm a lawyer myself, so I understand how hard it is to write a good law. But shouldn't you have said: guys, we should go back to our own room, because that no-deal seems to be off the table, where quite another scenarios are conceivable? But shouldn't we think about whether it's still so urgent? And how are we going to write when you think that the rights of our people, I say, are not sufficiently guaranteed in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u29	On that last point, which I may not have sufficiently addressed at the outset: if you want to include the qualifications of when something is sufficient, especially knowing how the Brexit has developed over the past few years, then we are strongly advised not to lay it down in a law in this way. You say: shouldn't you have looked at each other and reconsidered the urgency? Frankly, we have looked at each other very clearly. We have, of course, had a somewhat one-sided exchange of letters from us to you, with our appreciation of what is happening now. There too, of course, you are right in saying that this was initially the appreciation that this looked good: Parliament approved the exit agreement. But as more clarity emerged about what that meant in practice and about the attitude of the United Kingdom, the authors felt a direct abyss in which the Dutch would disappear. That may have vanished, but the feeling of a subsurface that is slowly tilting, allowing you to disappear into it, remained firmly. So we still feel this urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u30	Mr. Doornhof, last, and then we're really gonna wrap it up a little bit. I could also ask Mr. Sjoerdsma which block he landed on. You're not with the Council of State yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u31	That's right. I'll get to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u32	So you are now in the third of your eight blocks, and we are now working for almost an hour, which is half the total speaking time. How did you see that in terms of timing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u33	I can, of course, give you a shorter answer, if you will allow me to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u34	If you want to spare time for other petitioners and the Secretary of State, that might be useful. Then I would also like to ask Members to make short interruptions and ask short questions and keep your statements for a second term. It will be discussed in detail after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u35	I hear you loud and clear, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, however, for this last interruption on this point. The urgency is one thing, but a second thing is the technique. That advice from "sufficient" was given at the time when in a bad situation there could actually be nothing but a no-deal. Now a bad scenario would require a political balance that the House of Representatives did not really talk about. That might also make that technique require you to look each other in the eye again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u36	I can be very brief about this, because this is a repetition of an earlier question. Well, that's what we disagree about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u37	But it is an essential part. We must be clear about this. I would like to give an example to Dutch legislation abroad, because we are clear. When I read the word "sufficient," I thought: that is a strange word for Dutch concepts, because what is sufficient? The initiator says that the Secretary of State finally decides on this. That's clear. But is the Secretary of State's decision framed by this bill? Or does the Secretary of State finally say whether she thinks it is enough or not? I think that is a little risky, because we are adopting an initiative law that does something that the government didn't really want to do and then we say that we are placing the full jurisdiction over whether or not to implement this law with the Secretary of State. It is true that the law is correct, but I would like to know whether the initiators have a framework of the powers of the Secretary of State in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u38	It's also enshrined in the law. So I understand Mr Kox's question very well. I also understand the inconvenience. I can only say that every formula we had chosen would have been uncomfortable. Automatic entry into force would also have been uncomfortable, because we weren't sure if it had been necessary. So as initiators, we also looked for something that allowed us to respond to actuality. But your question is correct: how is such a decision by the Secretary of State framed? I would like to say two things about this. The law says "retirement agreement." I think we can put a check mark on that. We all know that; that happened in January. "Enough security" is the second part. If you ask what is to be sufficiently secured, then I would like to refer to what this whole law is built on: the exit agreement and the civil rights contained therein. There is no other framework than civil rights as agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union. If you ask me then whether I can tell you in ten decimal places whether the rights in the area of residence are just or not... I can't put that in a law. But I dare to say here that, in view of the exit agreement and the rights contained therein, there is a clear definition of what this State Secretary should look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u39	I don't want to make it any bigger than it is, but here's a figure we don't normally know in our legislation. There's nothing against trying something new for once. The initiator said that he can imagine that there is a role for the House of Representatives on this point. I could imagine that, too. If we now agree that it is at least intended that before the Secretary of State makes a decision, she will hear the House of Representatives on this matter, then that is sufficiently framed. It has to be weighed. I don't know if the Secretary of State has a lot of problems with that either. In the end, the power was transferred to the Secretary of State through this law. But if it's not framed, then you wonder what the scope of this bill is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u40	Of course, Mr Kox's suggestion touches on the House of Representatives. I'm only representing the initiators here. I do not think that is a bad suggestion either, but it is a suggestion that I should pass on to the Secretary of State, if you will allow me. The question is whether it really wants to consider taking over the framework that you are proposing. I think that is not unwise, because that gives an extra guarantee on the guarantee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u41	The intention of this bill is to give some certainty to Dutch people in the UK. Suppose we say: in fact we do not know exactly what the judgment means "sufficient," but we leave that to the government. Does that give enough certainty to the people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u42	I have, of course, talked extensively about this with the representatives of interests, with the people who, unlike ourselves, directly in their personal lives, experience how things are in practice. I just put it on the table: they would prefer to see multiple nationality possible, for everyone. If I may speak as a D66 man, I will take off my hat for a moment: I understand that. However, this kind of initiative legislation is also about the art of the possible: how can one solve a problem while at the same time ensuring that there is sufficient support? Unfortunately, what we, as initiators, have not been able to agree with is that broader multiple nationality. We have been able to agree with this very defined exception in order to solve a specific problem. We then submit the decision to the Secretary of State in a way, because of the rapid developments we have experienced with the Brexit. Somewhere you have to be able to weigh where we are in the process. We have not been able to predict exactly how things would go, but Mr Kox's proposal is a good incentive for the Secretary of State to look at it proactively and carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u43	I understand that, and that's a good suggestion. Listening to Mr Sjoerdsma's input, we are satisfied with how this was expressed in the exit agreement. Those are the rules now, and that's fine. However, it goes wrong in the execution. That is what we are seeing now, so we say to the Secretary of State, if I have understood Mr Sjoerdsma correctly: look how that develops, but if implementation is not sufficient at some point, this law will come into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u44	Yes, but I would like to add a few more points, because I mentioned two points myself. The first is the scenario in which civil rights, the Dutch and the French, would fall completely. That is the scenario in which Prime Minister Johnson would use civil rights in the context of the current negotiations as some sort of bargaining chip, a crowbar to get something done. Then you're gonna need this incredibly hard and right away. The second point concerns the sliding scale of practice, where we see that the agreements agreed on paper are not being complied with in practice. The initiators now say: we do not think that is enough, but at the very beginning we have laid down in the law that the final verdict lies with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u45	I just want to make sure I understand it correctly, also in connection with others. Mr Doornhof also put his finger on it. Mr Sjoerdsma actually says: it is not enough now. There is a solution if it is not enough, but the Secretary of State should give that concept "sufficient" meaning. Mr Kox says, and that is also what I said in the first term: where is the Parliament when considering the Secretary of State? How's that going? Mr Kox said that it would be good to frame this. I agree. What you are actually doing is saying: this is the problem, we already know that this problem is there, we also have a solution to it. But then you leave it with the Secretary of State. Why do you put the problem and its solution to the Secretary of State? I keep hearing that the solution is fixed. Whether there is a problem or not, whether it is bigger or smaller, it is changing, but now the Secretary of State has to decide, because you know that there is a problem, but the solution is certain. Why don't you let go of that solution? Why not leave it to the Secretary of State to see what might strengthen the position of the Dutch in the UK, without saying directly: we know that this is only one thing, namely double nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u46	Mrs Huizinga now says... Let me say a few things. First of all, it is not unique that we choose to lay down a law by royal decree to judge the cabinet. I am thinking, for example, of the Fertilisers Act, which has also been passed in your Chamber. At that time it was also decided that we should leave some evaluation and valuation space to the cabinet. We could also have chosen that, as soon as the proposal passes through the First Chamber, I hope it does so, it will enter into force automatically. But the point is, of course, that the same legal history was threatening a no-deal without an exit agreement when we submitted it. In the meantime, suppose there had been a exit agreement, it was automatically introduced and executed to the letter. Then these people will have a right, when we have actually agreed with each other that we want to give them this right under very defined conditions. With you, there are a number of other initiators who say that we should be quite thrifty with multiple nationality, that we should only deal with this very clause and that we should only use it in extreme need. Well, this is the extreme need we've determined. That's the thought behind it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u47	That is not an answer to my question, but there is a second deadline and I will certainly come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u48	There's a second term. There is a proposal from Mr Kox, so I assume the Secretary of State will be speaking about this shortly. Mr. Sjoerdsma, may I ask you to take the other cubes to your hands quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u49	I'm gonna do this fast. I have been asked to reflect on the opinion of the Council of State, in particular the aspect of proportionality. For the sake of time, I will ignore the fact that we have adopted three of the four opinions of the Council of State. The advice not to submit this, we have left it for what it was. The Council of State actually says: can you solve this problem in another way? I can tell you that we would very much like to solve this problem in a different way. I personally would have preferred nothing more than not to look for this in nationality law. But we couldn't think of any other way, not even in discussions with experts and the Council of State. No other way was found in the House's proceedings to unilaterally guarantee these rights of Dutch people in the UK. We simply found no other way. Then I can understand why the Council of State says: we do not like it or do not like it. Mr Kox said the same thing. I would have liked to have done it differently myself, but if there had been another solution, we would have chosen it. Very briefly about the Council of State. Mr Kox and Mrs Huizinga also referred to the principle of equality. They referred to the principle of equality and asked how this law relates to it. The principle of equality requires equal treatment of equal cases. We ourselves believe that the principle of equality is in line with this law. The Netherlands in the United Kingdom are in a unique situation, a situation in which something happens to them, namely a potentially large loss of rights without having had any effect on them. We have done our best to find a historical precedent to see if there is indeed a problem with that unique content. We didn't find that. In that case, indeed, there could be people who say: yes, but the Dutch in Italy should also be able to become Italian or perhaps even want to become Italian. Although I understand that, their situation is, of course, dramatically different. It might suit them well, it might solve problems, but the Dutch in Italy do not see themselves facing the sudden loss of rights. This makes this situation so different that I am convinced that we are treating similar cases equally here. Mrs Vos asked about the six months that this bill applies and whether it should not be possible to extend it. I would like to say two things to that effect. It is not possible to renew unless the Cabinet decides to do so. But I'm glad you don't have to. It does not only apply six months after its entry into force. For those who still have to apply for settled status, it applies for 18 months. And that actually covers everyone with a reasonable period of time and we are sure that anyone who really is jumping to a solution can be eligible for it and can come forward. Then we can close this law. That is also because this law is not based on the moment you get British nationality, but on the moment you apply for British nationality. So it doesn't matter how long the procedure lasts or how long you make your application. It's about the moment of application. Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Stienen asked about the importance of information and communication. A motion for a resolution was passed in the House of Representatives. I think that this motion was widely supported at the time because everyone can see that we want to prevent people from finding out that this option was there for them, but that they did not use it because they did not know it. You can say that everyone should be able to find out about this through social media and news meeting, but the House of Representatives has said so, also in view of, for example, the number of elderly people in the United Kingdom, which must be subject to an information campaign. For the further answer, what about the possible preparation and other matters? I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. Mrs Stienen of D66 asked about the British in the Netherlands. The Secretary of State will be able to say a number of things about what she has received on behalf of the Dutch cabinet. I think that the Netherlands, if I could give an opinion, has been generous in that regard. At the time, for the sake of acceptance, we adapted the bill and removed the British from the bill in the Netherlands. Finally, Mr President. I hope that with this answer I have done justice to the questions of your Chamber and to the concerns and dilemmas that some of you had. If not, I am happy to look forward to your second-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. I understand that Mr Van Wijngaarden will speak. Or is it the intention of the Secretary of State to speak first?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u51	I think it would be wise to first give Mr Van Wijngaarden the opportunity to answer the questions put to him by Mrs Karimi van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u52	That's okay. The chair will then be cleaned, after which Mr Van Wijngaarden can begin his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u53	Mr. Chairman. Ms Karimi asked why the VVD supported this initiative law. That's actually a pretty simple answer. We have seen, and we have understood directly from a great many people, that large groups of Dutch people in Britain are being affected in their legal position and are deeply concerned. It is good to note that this is not just about adults, but also about children; people who have not chosen for this. Anyone can come into their lives at a time when they need help. If people are asking us for help and we are in a position to help those people, why shouldn't we? This is the best offer of aid we have been able to come up with. Technically and legally we think it is sufficiently defined, which makes it the exception to the rule and the rule of single nationality in the Netherlands remains the rule. It's the exception that confirms the rule. With that there was sufficient reason for us to support this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van Vineyards. Mrs Karimi has a short supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u55	I think this answer is fantastic, because I understand that the VVD is abandoning the idea that citizenship is so important and part of its own identity that it cannot be combined with another citizenship. So if it is necessary to help people, we do it through this medicine. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u56	There is now a very broad interpretation of my explanation, which goes a little too far for me. I would just like to ask why we want to make this exception for this group of Dutch people abroad. As has been said, the rule remains the single nationality for us. This is in that sense a white raven, the exception that confirms the rule.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u57	Thank you, Mr. Van Wijngaarden. I thank the initiators for their answer. The government will now have the floor in the first term. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u58	Mr President, thank you. An initiative proposal is always a great achievement, and I am very grateful to the initiators for having managed to achieve it, because it is a huge job to achieve it. I would also like to thank Members for their input today. As you know, in June 2016 the British voted in a majority for the UK's withdrawal from the European Union today, to the disappointment of many in Europe. Since January 31 of this year the Brexit is a fact. Luckily, a short time ago, an agreement was reached between the United Kingdom and the European Union, which guarantees citizens' right of residence over and over again. I'm gonna go into that. A long period of uncertainty preceded the Brexit. This has led to unrest among the Dutch who live and work in the UK. That's understandable. They didn't want the Brexit, but it happened to them. The government appreciates that the initiators continued to call attention to the legal position of the Dutch in the United Kingdom even after the Brexit and the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. For the government, the rights of Dutch people in the UK have been one of the most important spearheads in the Brexit negotiations. The government has called for a diplomatic solution and an agreement with the United Kingdom. It is therefore pleased that this has now been achieved through the withdrawal agreement. The criteria to be met by Union citizens in order to obtain residence status, pre-setled status or settled status in the United Kingdom are included in the withdrawal agreement. These are essentially the same criteria as those currently applied to stay in the United Kingdom under Union law. This ensures that Union citizens living in the United Kingdom are eligible for this new residence status. Three things apply. First, under current Union law, a temporary residence status after five years of lawful residence is converted into a permanent residence status. That temporary residence status has not been applied since the Brexit, but ever since you've been in the United Kingdom. Two: it is not possible to undermine these rights through national laws or regulations of the United Kingdom. The rights arising from the withdrawal agreement shall be binding. Union citizens in the United Kingdom may rely directly on these provisions. It is also not possible to withdraw the status of individual Union citizens on grounds other than those expressly mentioned in the agreement. Thirdly, independent supervision is also provided for. The Court of Justice of the European Union shall remain competent to rule on the interpretation of this part of the withdrawal agreement for eight years after the end of the transitional period. I now turn to the questions that have been asked. First of all, Mrs Karimi's question, but the same type of question has also been put by Mr Kox. Can the Secretary of State undertake that the government will ratify the law after acceptance by the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u59	I had the expectation that you would also comment on the government's arguments against the bill. You said, "I'm gonna bring that up in the First Chamber." But I don't think I've heard those arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u60	I think I have just given a very strong argument, namely that a withdrawal agreement has been concluded in which the rights of Union citizens are guaranteed in accordance with the criteria of Union law, a direct appeal to the UK courts and also to the Luxembourg Court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u61	You're saying, "First Chamber," I wouldn't accept this bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u62	I told the House of Representatives it was up to the Chamber. And that's what I'm saying here. It is up to the Chamber itself to decide. I answer the questions that have been asked and you can draw your own conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u63	Mr. Doornhof, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u64	I understand that, Mr President; thank you very much. Yes, I have, of course, read the report of your speech in the House of Representatives, in the Acts. And that's where you got a little pissed off by the chairman. He said: it is now up to the Chamber to give an opinion on this and it is not up to the cabinet to make some sort of statement on this initiative. I actually thought that was a bit of a weird reaction from the chairman. At least, in this Chamber, I do not know what the President thinks about this. On the contrary, we think it is very important to know how the cabinet looks at such a proposal, also given the government's policy. I have heard your arguments and, of course, I feel the undertone. However, I find it somewhat unsatisfactory when the cabinet says that we do not have an opinion on an initiative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u65	Probably it was the fact that it was a fairly new business for me to participate in the Lower House in defending a bill. That's why I've used the terminology that's usually used in motions. Motions are "to the Chamber" or "dissuade." That is why the terminology used by me did not exactly match the situation I was in. I did say on behalf of the cabinet that we think that it is difficult as far as legal inequality is concerned. The Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap bans dual nationality, and for a certain category of citizens, namely those of Dutch nationality who live or work in the UK, an exception is made. We thought that was an important point. The second point is, and we agree with the Council of State, that a right of residence is resolved by nationality. I mentioned those two points. Mr. Chairman. I shall continue with the answer to the questions put by Mrs Karimi and Mr Kox. I also said it in the House of Representatives: if this bill is accepted by your Chamber, then the Council of Ministers will have to decide whether or not to ratify it and countersign it. We are not in favour of it, but I think that the non-applicability of a bill accepted by both Chambers of the States-General is a very serious measure. I certainly do not want to go that far in this case. I think so, and I said so in the House of Representatives. You can hardly put it better than Mr Kox did. It is really an important part of our democratic system. Parliament adopts a legislative proposal and then it is very important that the cabinet adheres to it. There may be a situation where that is different, but in this case it certainly is not. Ratification and countersignation will certainly happen if it is adopted here. Mrs Karimi then asked the question where the draft law on the modernisation of nationality remains, as this was announced in the government agreement. I was asked that question in the House of Representatives. I always have to explain that the agreement in the coalition agreement has two sides, and they have to be taken together, in one legislative proposal. Yes, it has been agreed in the coalition agreement that first generation people who are in the Netherlands can have two nationalities, a double nationality. At the same time, however, it is necessary to regulate, in the same legislative proposal, that the second generation should make a choice. This means that it is fine that people have a dual nationality, but that their children must choose which nationality they take. So it is not the case that the coalition agreement states that we are moving to double nationality. No, that second piece goes with it. In March 2019, the Court of Justice of the European Union, in the so-called Tjebbes judgment, ruled that loss of nationality, if it also leads to loss of Union citizenship, is permissible in itself, but that the European proportionality test should be considered. This is determined in each individual case. This could mean that the lost nationality would be reclaimed with retroactive effect. That's a judgment that's very important. Next week we hope to be able to consult a change to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u66	The agreement in the coalition agreement is known to me, both sides as well. So, on the one hand, allowing dual nationality to migrants and immigrants; both groups. On the other hand, therefore, the choice for the second and third generation, I presume. But where's the bill? Even with that content?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u67	The Chebbes judgment was delivered in March. That has led us to have to think very hard about how to pour things into the barrel. I must say that the Tjebbes judgment has an impact on the measures contained in the coalition agreement, but first we think it is important to bring the current law, the Dutch law on Dutch citizenship, into line with the case law. That's the first step. It's not just a matter of: we solve this quickly. It's pretty complicated and that's why it's going to be in consultation next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u68	Do I understand the Secretary of State that she says: shall I first put aside the appointment in the coalition agreement? Then I'm going to find a solution to the Tjebbes judgment and then I'm only going to take another action in relation to the appointment in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u69	No, Mrs Karimi is now suggesting that we do nothing about it for a long time, then first do Tjebbes and then go back to it. Of course, we are working on it all the time and thinking about what is laid down in the coalition agreement, but I can imagine that Mrs Karimi also understands that it is not just one-two-three arranged to allow the second generation to make the choice of nationality. You have to turn one in. That is very difficult and there are a lot of legal hooks and eyes on it. It's being worked hard, and it's getting a lot of thought into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u70	Mrs. Karimi, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u71	If I may draw a conclusion, I say: the coalition agreement is not from yesterday, but has been there for a few years. Now we are in the situation where we are discussing a bill that everyone says is just a lot of crunches and eyes. That could have been avoided if the homework had been done before. I still hear the Secretary of State says we're working on it and we're thinking about it. But the result, namely that there is a legislative proposal before us, is not something you can say now: I will be ready in a week, two weeks or ten days from now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u72	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u73	I think I have answered that sufficiently. The amendment of the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap to the Tjebbes judgment will be consulted next week. Mrs Vos has asked how many Dutch people in the United Kingdom will make use of this law. I have also heard Mr Sjoerdsma say: we do not know exactly; there are about 100,000. I replied to your Chamber's written questions: Dutch people abroad do not have to register. Therefore, no exact figures are available. We suspect it's 100,000, but it could be fewer. Maybe there are more, but we don't know for sure. It is also not known whether many Dutch people already live in the United Kingdom with a dual nationality because they are married to a British citizen. Unfortunately, those data are missing. I think it is a great thing that not everyone is registered when you go to another country. Mrs Vos had asked another question about the six months after entry into force. That question has already been answered by Mr Sjoerdsma. Mrs Vos had also asked a question about the future prospects of the British in the Netherlands. The guarantees under the withdrawal agreement for Union citizens in the United Kingdom also apply to British nationals in the European Union. Last year we inventoried all the British in the Netherlands. They've all been looked up and all the addresses have been collected. When it became clear on 31 January that the United Kingdom was leaving the European Union, the invitation to the British to apply for a stay under the withdrawal agreement began immediately. Upon submission of the application, the IND shall carry out a review. There's about 45,000 of them. Anyone who is currently legally resident in the Netherlands under Union law is eligible for an authorisation under the agreement. In doing so, the future prospects of British citizens, provided that the conditions of the withdrawal agreement are met, are guaranteed right of residence. Maybe it's nice to mention the numbers after all. In the meantime 19.429 of the 45,000 invitations have been sent. The number of Brexit applications submitted up to May 2020 shall be 12,000. Of the 19,500 sent, 12,000 have returned. A large part of this has now been granted a residence permit by the IND.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u74	Thank you for the answers. If people get that permit, can they basically live and work in the Netherlands infinitely? That's not quite clear to me yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u75	There are the same rules in the withdrawal agreement. Basically you have a temporary residence permit, but a large part of it requires sustainable stay. They are therefore longer than five years in the Netherlands. About 2,000 of those 12,000 apply for a fixed-term permit. They want to stay in the Netherlands for a shorter time. So not everyone immediately asks for a sustainable stay. Of the 12,040 Brexit applications submitted, 9,850 applied for sustainable stays and 2,190 fixed periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u76	This means, in practice, that they remain British citizens and keep British nationality, but they can basically continue to live in the Netherlands until their AOW, work and bring their children to school.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u77	Sustainable stay is long-lasting, yes. Mr Van Rooijen and Mrs Stienen have asked how Dutch people in the United Kingdom are informed about this law. The information will be provided in the usual way, via Rijksoverheid.nl and on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Dutch people abroad. That's the Netherlands wereldwijd.nl. We see no reason to launch a specific government campaign for Dutch people who are currently living in the United Kingdom, because we assume that they will keep themselves well informed about developments. The interest groups of Dutch people abroad are also very active in this area. The attention given to all the Brexit negotiations must lead to many being aware of what is going on. The same goes for this. Rijksoverheid.nl and Nederlandwereldwijd.nl are there. If someone wants information, it is of course also the case that the embassy can provide that information and also refer to those websites.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u78	I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u79	Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u80	Secretary of State. You see, I think ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u81	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u82	Yes, you also went from this senate to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u83	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u84	So the beginning's already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u85	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u86	The Secretary of State said many. But that's not all. The bourgeoisie consists of young, middle age and old. It has also been discussed in the House of Representatives that not all elderly people are skilled in social media. I'm still asking the Secretary of State to act more actively in that. The House of Representatives also asked for this. I understand that the Secretary of State refers to the existing means of communication and to the interest groups that have their own interest in their citizens in the United Kingdom. But there will again be gaps here, as well as this initiative proposal wants to overcome a gap for the Dutch in England if there is a no-deal. Here's a gap for that group. I urge the Secretary of State to do more than she has said now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u87	I can promise Mr Van Rooijen that I will see if there are any other options specific to those referred to by Mr Van Rooijen, such as older people who may not be so agile with the media and who do not have the habit of calling the embassy or consulate every day. I'm gonna see what's possible, but a really big public campaign is a very expensive thing. In the Netherlands we have done our best by visiting all 45,000 Britons in the Netherlands. That's been a lot of work, too. That was a very expensive operation. I don't want to say we shouldn't be talking about money. I'm gonna look into it, but I don't promise. I promise that we will see if anything more is needed for the very group to which Mr Van Rooijen refers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u88	Thank you for your answer. You rightly point out the great activity for the British who live in the Netherlands. If the law is passed and the counter-signature is given, is it conceivable that the cabinet, and you specifically, is prepared to contact the British Government about the 100,000 Dutch who live in the United Kingdom and have rights and duties there, so that the British Government also points this out to that large group of Dutch people? Is it conceivable that you might consider making that contact?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u89	We have to be careful, too. The British Government is not only dealing with 100,000 Dutch people, but with 3 million Union citizens. I have just spoken about equality of law. If there is anything, it would also be necessary, because of equality of law, to inform all 3 million Union citizens in the United Kingdom much more than they are doing now, perhaps they are already doing a lot of work by pointing out the withdrawal agreement and the opportunities it has created.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u90	Mr. Van Rooijen, a third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u91	Following on from what you have said, I would like to ask whether it is conceivable that communication from the British Government on the consequences of a no-deal for those 3 million people in the United Kingdom should also specifically mention the situation that has arisen for 100,000 Dutch people following the adoption of this law. That is perhaps a possibility, because one also has to communicate with those 3 million foreigners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u92	I have just said, at the beginning of my speech, that the Dutch are not registered in the United Kingdom. They do not have to register for Dutch legislation either. I cannot see to what extent they are sufficiently registered in the United Kingdom. I think this is important. I speak with some regularity to the English ambassador. I'll recommend this in his attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u93	I hear the Secretary of State say that it is not the intention to launch a large-scale public campaign. I do not think that was requested in the motion adopted in the House of Representatives either. However, the motion by Mrs Belhaj and a few other colleagues calls for an information campaign to be launched. This motion has also been passed. So I don't really understand what we're talking about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u94	I come to Mrs Belhaj's motion. On 27 February, in response to Mrs Belhaj's motion, the cabinet met with a number of representatives from various British organizations in the Netherlands. This included the application procedure for a residence permit, access to Dutch health care and access to the Dutch labour market. For a detailed explanation, I have to refer Mrs Stienen to the letter from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the House of Representatives of 14 April 2020, in which he also reports on my behalf, because it was about representatives of the British in the Netherlands. That was Mrs Belhaj's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u95	Mrs Belhaj is a very active MP. She had filed two motions. The other motion dealt with the information position of the Dutch in the United Kingdom. My group is concerned that many Dutch people sometimes do not realize that they are at risk of losing their Dutch identity if they live abroad for a long time. That is a bit in line with Mr Van Rooijen's interruption. The Ombudsman wrote a report on this a number of years ago. It's called And then I lost my Dutchmanship. I myself have been on the diplomatic service for a long time and I have noticed that you should not overestimate how well informed Dutch people are who have been abroad for a long time. Hence my group's strong appeal to respond to Mrs Belhaj's other motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u96	May I respond to that in the second term, Mr. Chairman? Mrs Stienen also asked a number of questions about the safeguards in the withdrawal agreement and its implementation by the United Kingdom. I have just said that this withdrawal agreement was reached between the European Union and the United Kingdom. This entered into force on 31 January, the moment of the release of the United Kingdom from the European Union. There is a residence status and all the conditions for the criteria for this are included in the withdrawal agreement. As a result, there is a guarantee that Union citizens living in the United Kingdom will be eligible for this new residence status. I have already said that five years of lawful residence will be converted into permanent residence status. I have also just indicated that there can be a direct appeal, that there can be no prejudice to those rights through national laws or regulations, and that the Court of Justice of the European Union has the power to rule on the interpretation of the withdrawal agreement for eight years after the end of the transitional period. Moreover, the withdrawal agreement is independent of the trade deal currently being negotiated and remains in force, even if no trade deal is reached. Mr Sjoerdsma has also made that clear. I also note that this is explicitly recognised in the response given by the initiators. This agreement adequately guarantees the rights of the Dutch in the United Kingdom. I also understand that there are doubts as to whether it will continue to be good and whether the British Government will comply with the agreement. But it is an agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union, all the Member States of the European Union, the whole of the European Union. I do not share that concern. The UK is bound by the agreement and ultimately the Court of Justice of the European Union is watching this. The agreement is not without obligation. In practice, moreover, it is clear that the United Kingdom is fulfilling its commitments. The United Kingdom received more than 3.5 million applications from Union citizens until April this year. Data provided by the United Kingdom show that 99% of these were met. If I may finish, Mr President, the details of the agreement in the United Kingdom are in secondary legislation, but that is not important. The United Kingdom must comply with laws and regulations. The agreement is binding on that point. It is true that Union citizens in the United Kingdom do not receive a physical residence document, but I would point out that the withdrawal agreement explicitly allows a digital proof of lawful residence. That is the first paragraph of Article 18 of the withdrawal agreement. At the time, the European Union and the United Kingdom agreed to do so in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u97	I would think: that is a sound statement by the Secretary of State on what the situation is actually about civil rights. But can you imagine a situation in which the rights of Union citizens in the UK are not sufficiently guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u98	I can imagine. There will always be a case in which one's rights are not as guaranteed as he had hoped, but there is also a direct appeal to the courts in the United Kingdom. In addition, after the transition period is over, the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg can be called upon for eight years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u99	I am asking this question because, of course, this is precisely the criterion on which you have to decide whether the law will enter into force if it is adopted. When I hear you talk like that, I don't see a moment in your life when you think you should let that safety net come into effect. My question is, is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u100	A withdrawal agreement has been concluded between the UK and the European Union. The European Union agrees with what has been agreed there. This has proved sufficient for the European Union. At the moment, there is no situation where I could say that such strange things happen that things go wrong. No, it is a fact that this, whether you call it 'the lower limit' or not, has been sufficient for the negotiators of the European Union with the United Kingdom to sign the withdrawal agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u101	Mr. Doornhof, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u102	That is clear to me, Mr President. So you're saying if this bill is accepted by the Lower House and by the Upper House, I'll put that countersign, but there won't be a moment when I'll let that law enter into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u103	That withdrawal agreement indicates a lower limit. It may be that at some point the House of Representatives will table a motion, to say that it is absolutely not going well, that it is going completely wrong, I will just mention what. If that motion is accepted, it is up to the government to see whether that is true and whether that motion is being implemented. However, as long as we have concluded a withdrawal agreement as it has been concluded by the European Union, there is no reason to accept a single case, or two cases, or whatever, that we are going down. We must also remember that it is a withdrawal agreement which applies to all Member States of the European Union, to all residents of the 3 million or 3.1 million residing in England.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u104	I do think that there are more than one or two cases of concern to us when it comes to whether the rights of Dutch people are sufficiently guaranteed by that withdrawal agreement. I may have made a mistake in the first period, because at that time the UK had already left the European Union, but we still have a transitional period in which we can fix a number of things. My group therefore sees this initiative law more as an insurance policy rather safe than a safety net. You always hope you don't have to call in insurance. Then there is my specific question. I know that the Secretary of State received a letter from a number of interest groups on 16 February 2020. I'll do it very quickly. They say that this agreement does not guarantee the above-mentioned rights sufficiently. They say five things. They predict large-scale discrimination due to digital residence status only. They have a lot of concerns about transparency and management of personal data. They see a breach of trust with the British Home Office. They are deeply concerned about the loss of democratic rights. And they see a loss of the EU's right to free movement of persons. There is still a whole annex to these five points. I can always send this letter to the Secretary of State's political advisor. My question, on behalf of the D66 Group, is this: these five points were mentioned by interest groups after the exit agreement as a huge concern that their rights are not sufficiently guaranteed. We are very curious how the Secretary of State sees it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u105	I understand that Mrs Stienen comes up with these points from those interest groups, but at the same time it is true that a withdrawal agreement has been concluded by the European Union. The Netherlands has put quite a lot of effort on this, because the Netherlands thought it was an important thing. Right now, we're in the transition year. There is now a withdrawal agreement, of which we say, including as the Netherlands, as a member of the European Union: this is the agreement we have concluded. It would be strange if the Netherlands were to say that we should change that, because it is not good. There is an initiative legislative proposal here and that has been defended by Mr Sjoerdsma. The entry into force of this initiative proposal is not currently being discussed, because there is a withdrawal agreement. I must admit, however, to Mrs Stienen that this does not include the free movement of persons. That is the choice that has been made because the United Kingdom has left the European Union. You can't keep that, and then you can keep it from the European Union. I understand that these people have a point there, but that is the result of the situation created by the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u106	That is why the interest groups say on behalf of about 100 000 Dutch people: that is actually the only solution for us to apply for British nationality, but we cannot do that, because then we will lose our Dutch nationality. It is stated in Article 4 (1) of the Own-initiative Act, in the second part of the sentence that it is not sufficiently guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u107	The European Union considers that rights are sufficiently guaranteed by the withdrawal agreement. Otherwise the withdrawal agreement would not have been concluded in this way. Right now, we're in the transition year. To say that the rights are not sufficiently guaranteed... I just can't say. That is not at all the issue right now. This is a like-dan question. I would almost say to those who put this forward: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. We'll see if it's enough. It may well be that the United Kingdom does not keep to its commitments at all. We have no reason to think so, but it could all be. Then there are safeguards built in. If this law is passed, it's still in place. Then the House of Representatives can adopt a motion. I have just said it and say: "Government, let that law enter into force, for the guarantees are completely gone; there is no guarantee whatsoever. Those people are simply at the mercy of the United Kingdom, which is violating all the treaties and agreements." That would be the situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u108	Mrs. Stienen, your last question. I'll give you a second term later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u109	Finally. My favorite pudding is trifle, a very complicated pudding. According to the Dutch we have spoken, it already appears that a number of things that are in these so-called guarantees make their lives really difficult in everyday practice. They have less right to a home, they find it difficult to get a job and they fear expulsion if, because of this digital construction, they cannot prove that they have that right of residence at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u110	I'll come back to the digital construction. It's agreed in the withdrawal agreement. It is not my place here to say about the withdrawal agreement that they should not have inserted that provision and so on. The withdrawal agreement is leading. It is closed by the European Union with the United Kingdom. That's the basis for what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u111	The Secretary of State says, if I understand her correctly, I'm going to have it put into effect. That is also stated in Article 4 of the bill. The Secretary of State is not going to act until she thinks: I do not think it is sufficiently guaranteed now, so I am going to let the law go. But the Secretary of State also says: "I can imagine that the House of Representatives, if it feels that it is not sufficiently guaranteed, will adopt a motion and say that to me. Then I'll judge that on his merits. Normally, I carry out what the House of Representatives says." If we agree on that structure, I think it is sufficiently framed that the House of Representatives can say: Secretary of State, we think this is the time. Then there is consultation between government and parliament and then it is resolved. I think that is important, because we are dealing with a rather curious figure. That concept of "sufficient" is indeed an assessment. That was deposited with the Secretary of State. Is that the figure? So if the House of Representatives thinks it's time for the bill to be activated, it adopts a motion and then the government normally acts in line with that motion and talks about it with the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u112	I just said something like that. That's the case. What Mr Kox says, I can confirm. It is, of course, about the fact that the House of Representatives, which is the case, gives substance to the concept of'sufficient'. The cabinet says there are sufficient safeguards in the withdrawal agreement. The situation could arise when the transition year is over, when I do not know what the circumstances are, as I said to Mrs Stienen, and when the United Kingdom does not keep to the agreements at all and all kinds of things are going in the wrong direction. But then it is also important to establish that this is true for the House of Representatives and then that the responsibility of the cabinet is whether it is indeed right that it is no longer sufficient. And it is always up to those who are then or in the Chamber or in the Cabinet to assess the content: are there still sufficient guarantees for the Dutch in the UK?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u113	Mr. Kox, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u114	I am a great supporter of good traffic between government and parliament. We have exchanged this in another debate here. I also think it is important to establish that here. In my opinion, the Secretary of State has quite rightly said that if this initiative proposal is adopted in two chambers, I will sign it. That's different from entry into force, but that's the deal. This wasn't thought up by the government, but by parliament and when the parliament says "that's how it should be," we're gonna do it that way. The interpretation of the term "sufficient" is formally in the hands of the Secretary of State, but in material terms the Chamber can say: we think that this interpretation is there now. It will be part of the legal history that that will be the normal procedure. Unless the House of Representatives is gonna say some really weird things. I don't know if you do that all the time; at least we rarely or never. But the normal procedure will be that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u115	Is this your question, Mr. Kox? 'Cause you're about to get a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u116	... if the House of Representatives thinks that the moment of "sufficient" has arrived, the government will say in advance: we are satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u117	I think Mr Kox would like confirmation. It is always the power of the House of Representatives to table a motion on any subject; that can be done here, in the House of Representatives, by the way. The House of Representatives could also table a motion on this matter. Then it is up to the cabinet to assess whether it is indeed not enough. For that is what it is all about, the interpretation of the concept of "sufficient." But I do hope that Mr Kox understands that the government, the cabinet, will not be able to say 'we do' or 'we do not' in one day, because it requires a lot of research to find out whether or not it is fulfilled. I should also like to hope that the House of Representatives does not lightly table a motion, which I do not expect at all with the intention: we do not think it is enough and do so. 'Cause it's not like that. Because then we'll have to deal with that, I'll come back to that with legal inequality, because, roughly speaking, having these two nationalities for a Dutchman is not possible according to the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap. In this case it is made possible for the Dutch in England. The deeper you go in there as you suddenly step away from a withdrawal agreement... So things could go all wrong. But if things go well, I think it's important that we stick to that before we go further down the path of legal inequality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u118	Secretary of State, how far along are you with the response? 'Cause at least I want to suspend for dinner break at 6:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u119	Mr President, I can talk very quickly, but I can also see Mrs Karimi at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u120	That's why I'm asking. Before I allow any interruptions, I would like to know how many questions you have to answer, otherwise we will continue to do so after dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u121	I have a few more questions. There are also a number of questions that I have answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u122	Do you think it'll work in ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u123	Well... I'll do my best.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u124	Then I suggest that we let the Secretary of State give us a few answers and we hold off the interruptions, if necessary until after dinner. I'd still like to ask you to resume, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u125	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen asked what is in the withdrawal agreement on freedom of movement. I have actually said a few words about this. After the transitional period, there will no longer be free movement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. The Dutchman who naturalizes to Brit and therefore loses his Dutch identity, will therefore no longer have the right to free movement. That is a logical consequence of the exit. But if he still has Dutch nationality, then of course he has the right to free movement. I have already mentioned Mrs Belhaj's motion. Mr Doornhof, Mrs Huizinga and Mr Van der Burg have asked questions about the entry into force, but I think I have said enough about this. I also said that the House of Representatives could, for example, call on the government to enter into force. We've talked enough about that. Mr Doornhof also asked why, according to the government, the bill is not a proportionate means. The proposal means that one group of Dutch people can finally acquire a dual nationality, and others cannot. I have also said that this is contrary to the principle of equality. Moreover, it is a right of residence for the Dutch in the United Kingdom. Pre-setled status and settled status will solve this right of residence problem. That was also agreed in the withdrawal agreement. Mr Van Hattem has asked me if I can go into the free evidence theory when it comes to proving that you have lived continuously in the UK since June 2016. Free evidence is not the same as non-binding evidence. The burden of proof shall lie with the applicant. You can provide the evidence by any means necessary, but that has to be convincing. That could be a contract of employment. This could be a rental contract or a purchase contract, a child registration certificate at a British school, bank statements with an address in the United Kingdom and so on. All these evidences will be considered in conjunction. They must demonstrate convincingly that the applicant has lived continuously in the United Kingdom since June 2016. Mrs Huizinga has asked: can British citizens living in the United Kingdom now travel visa-free to the European Union? Maybe that would take away another disadvantage. During the transitional period, UK nationals are not yet subject to a visa requirement, as this would still apply to EU legislation. After the transitional period, the EU UK Regulation enters into force visa-free. I can give the number if Mrs Huizinga wants, but that ends. That Regulation was signed on 10 April. It regulates visa waivers for British citizens, as long as all Union citizens are not subject to a visa requirement by the United Kingdom as well. So reciprocity is very important, but that is settled. Mrs Huizinga also asked whether it was problematic for the United Kingdom to work out the withdrawal agreement in secondary legislation. I've already said something about that. I don't see that as problematic. It's binding and it's working directly. The Court of Justice shall ensure compliance. I've said something about that before. Also secondary legislation is regulation that the United Kingdom must comply with. Then Mr Van der Burg asked whether the legislative proposal had been improved by the change made by the initiators in response to the opinion of the Council of State. The authors have taken the opinion of the Council of State seriously and that is a good thing. I must also say that the most fundamental criticisms of the Council of State have unfortunately not been met. They mean that one particular group of Dutch people can finally have a dual nationality, that is, legal inequality, because others cannot. Moreover, the problems of the Dutch in the United Kingdom are of a residential nature. This is resolved by nationality law. That has not changed in the bill presented to the Chamber. The government supports the criticism of the Council of State. Then I'll come to Mr. Kox. He asked why the cabinet did not want legislation to make double nationality possible in the context of the Brexit, while other countries did. The question of whether or not a dual nationality is desirable is considered differently in Europe. The Strasbourg Convention passed through here. Almost all the countries have now left the Strasbourg Convention. The only countries left are the Netherlands and Austria. Those are the only two countries where you can't have dual nationality. Even the Danes, and they are always very conservative in that respect, have also made it possible. The rights of Dutch people in the UK are, in my opinion, sufficiently guaranteed by the withdrawal agreement. I do not therefore see any grounds for any specific legislation for this group. As far as I am aware, not all Member States make such arrangements. Mr Kox mentioned Germany, but that is another story. That's not exactly right. Austria has indeed made an arrangement, but Austria is in the same situation as the Netherlands. That's it, Mr. Chairman. I've got five minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u126	Thank you, Secretary of State. I'll see if there's any more interruptions. Mrs. Karimi had another one, but not anymore. Are there any other members who would like to interrupt? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the dinner break meeting until 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u127	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the legislative proposal 35130, Proposal of the National Law of Members Sjoerdsma, Asscher, Van Otterloo, Van Wijngaarden and Van Ojik, which lays down rules on the creation of temporary exceptions to the National Law of the Netherlands. I inform Members that, in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mrs Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u128	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the authors and the Secretary of State for their first reply. The intention of the law is to create a safety net. And then it is of course incredibly important that there is clarity, clarity about when the safety net enters into force and when the Dutch can claim it. We really need to be careful that after this debate the feeling arises among Dutch people who live in the UK that they are made happy with a dead sparrow. We can't let that happen. The core of the first-term debate was: when will the law enter into force? I think there is a great deal of uncertainty about this at the moment. I hope that it can be clarified in the second term. What did I hear? The trade agreement to regulate future relations between the UK and the EU is independent of the exit agreement, which regulates, inter alia, the civil rights of EU citizens. Regardless of whether a trade agreement is concluded or not, the rules as they are now agreed in the exit agreement remain. That is what I have heard and I would like confirmation from both the proposers and the Secretary of State. Both the proposers and the State Secretary say that the agreements in the exit agreement are sufficient in material terms. That is what we see as a guarantee. I see Mr Sjoerdsma shaking his head. I would like to have clarity about that. For example, I understood it in an interrupting debate, namely that the agreements made there in a material sense are sufficient. Now it comes down to whether they wear off, yes or no. How is that put into practice? Then the real problem begins. The problem begins because there are two different assessments, including at the moment, of the situation that is occurring. The Secretary of State is very satisfied with the outcome. She says: in practice, the UK is complying with the agreements, that secondary legislation is not really important here and that 99% of the applications have been accepted. A positive assessment, therefore, of the situation as it is today. But the initiators are much more critical. These are also the Dutch themselves who are staying in the UK. I think that's the point. We cannot now establish on the basis of what criteria the Secretary of State, who will soon be given the power to determine when the law will enter into force, will establish this. That should be clear here now. I'd like both of you to respond to that. Of course, the House of Representatives can table a motion, but the law provides that the State Secretary does so independently, independently of whether the House of Representatives makes a motion or not. Of course you can. The House of Representatives can always do that, and you do not need permission from the State Secretary. But the Secretary of State is now given the power, under the law, if it is adopted, to express that opinion. My final point concerns double nationality. I really listened with surprise to the Secretary of State. Austria and the Netherlands are the only remaining countries that do not allow double or multiple nationality. Then I think, move, move! Why are we still running all the way behind? Why is the bill that should have been submitted a long time ago still not filed? We call on the Secretary of State to speed this up and submit that bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u129	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u130	I have to ask Mrs Karimi a question. GroenLinks co-hosts the initiative proposal. It has been said earlier by the co-sponsors that this proposal is not intended to extend the debate on dual nationality. But I can see that Mrs Karimi is doing this now. It uses this debate to enable the debate on double nationality to be resumed in the Netherlands, to ride the dual nationality in this way. Is it the intention of GroenLinks to set a precedent for the return of dual nationality in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u131	It should be no surprise to Mr Van Hattem that we are in favour of multiple nationality. It's in our election program. That can be read; that is no secret at all. This is an exception above the exceptions already provided for in the law. I would indeed have found the royal path, as I said in my contribution in the first term, if that bill had been tabled. We would not have had to have had this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u132	I know that GroenLinks is a warm advocate of dual nationality and all other ways of facilitating mass immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u133	Oh, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u134	The fact that this bill is being abused in order to broaden the debate on dual nationality is in fact contrary to what the other proposers have said, or at least the proposers together, because Mr Sjoerdsma spoke on behalf of all the proposers at first, namely that it is not the intention to have a broad debate on dual nationality. And that's what GroenLinks, as a co-subscriber, is doing now. It is now broadening its scope by stating that the debate on the possibility of dual nationality must be held. That's what she's using this bill for. So my question is: is this proposal for a law on Mrs Karimi, as far as GroenLinks is concerned, intended to broaden the debate on dual nationality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u135	Mr Van Hattem dares. Really! If anyone has abused this bill to scream all sorts of things that have nothing to do with it, then he is. And then lecture me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u136	Mr. Van Hattem, for the last time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u137	What I said has everything to do with this bill. This is precisely about facilitating dual nationality. And yes, to a very large extent this relates to a group of tens of thousands of persons of Somali origin, who are Somali nationals, who are both in the Netherlands and in Great Britain, or who are travelling up and down. That has everything to do with it. So Mrs Karimi can say: you dare. However, as a party to this initiative proposal, she dares to extend this initiative proposal as a precedent, because she just added that treaty to make double nationality possible again. And we absolutely must not want that dual nationality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u138	Mr Van Hattem can be sure that we will seize every opportunity to put forward the positions of GroenLinks. That's what we do here. Every Dutchman is a Dutchman, whether you have a double nationality or not, whether you're black, or white, or whatever. Mr Van Hattem gave a whole speech to Dutch people of Somali descent. But they remain Dutch, with a Dutch passport. They too are covered by this law and the protection that the law hopefully will provide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u139	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I will not give Mr Van Hattem the floor again. I call Mrs Vos, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And especially thanks to the authors of this law and to the Secretary of State for the answers. Both the answers of the authors and those of the Secretary of State convinced me and my group to vote for this law even more. In the written questions I also asked about this strange anomaly that we, as one of the few countries, still allow a single nationality. I think it is a good thing that this bill, which I understand has now gone into consultation, is being dealt with as a matter of urgency. I hope that will succeed in the next nine months, because that would avoid many questions. My group is very pleased that this law will be passed. It is indeed some sort of safety net law, some kind of insurance. We hope it is not necessary, but if I read the heart cry of the Dutch abroad, then I think their concerns are justified. You just have to open every newspaper for that. We always find it a pleasant chaos. I know that from the British TV shows, too, but you'll just be in that chaos and uncertainty, living, having kids going to school, or maybe having a disease. Then it's not so pleasant. Then this filed law is a very good insurance policy in case things go wrong. We have not talked very explicitly about borders, but Mr Van Hattem, and also the CDA in the Lower House, have implicitly talked about it, for example when it comes to the welfare state. Borders are of course very useful for the welfare state, for those who pay taxes, for those who have to pay contributions for something, for those who have rights and for those who have duties. A welfare state can only exist if there are limits around it. We have rules for that. For example, my mother does not receive a full AOW because she has not lived in the Netherlands for her first years. Then you don't get a full AOW. You may find that unfair, but that has everything to do with the affordability of the welfare state. A Brit who works in the Netherlands and becomes unemployed but has paid WW premium, will receive WW for a while, but is no longer entitled to assistance. That is the expat scheme; again because it is good for the welfare state. It's all taken care of. But if you have a dual nationality, you can't eat both sides. That was Mr Van Hattem's question and point. This proposal will not be the case either. A dual nationality makes it possible to live the life you want to live. That is the beauty of the EU: being able to travel freely. Brits can't do that anymore. The Dutch who live in England can't do that anymore when the Brexit enters. The PVV called the freedom to travel narrowing "cosmopolitan." I call it "the freedom to fall in love with whomever you want." That's for PvdA freedom. Thank you. I recommend that my group vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. I call Mr Van Rooijen on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u142	Mr. Chairman. I have to mention the fact that Mr Joris Backer of D66, Mr Sjoerdsma and I had a conversation at the Dutch embassy in the United Kingdom about those three women I spoke to. With me, that has left an indelible impression. Mr. Chairman. What if secondary legislation were to be amended, what remedies, rescue buoys, would be left for the citizen? The Court of Justice? Mr. Chairman. "People above rules," I said. Mr Sjoerdsma pointed this out. Actually, this is a very emotional subject. We have seen the consequences of policy and policy implementation if things go wrong. Think of the supplement drama. Next week we will be discussing the arrangements for the child care allowance affair in the Awir bill. There is uncertainty for those people, but also for these 100,000 people, our Dutch and our compatriots, in the United Kingdom. That uncertainty is actually unbearable. That is what my group in the House of Representatives initiated with colleagues, Sjoerdsma and Asscher. The balance between the interests of those 100,000 people in England and the British here, compared with the rule we have on nationality, is very heavy. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the issue of the information campaign. The House of Representatives discussed this in detail. Mrs Stienen stressed the importance of information and publicity. Just as I walked here, I remembered: every citizen is supposed to know the law. But how do you know that you know or might know? That is, of course, the big question. That is why I appeal to the Secretary of State for maximum information and publicity, especially, as I said earlier, for older people who are not all so interested in social media. I repeat the words of Vice-President Anne Mulder of the VVD: "Make sure that there is good information and publicity for the elderly who are not or are less well aware of their rights in this regard." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u143	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I call Mrs Stienen on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u144	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, I would like to thank the authors of this initiative proposal and the Secretary of State for their answers. We have talked today about an initiative law that some people regard as a safety net. I think, with Mei Li Vos from the PvdA, the picture of insurance is even better. 'Cause you're taking out an insurance policy for something you hope won't happen. That is why I think it is very nice that we have seen in the debate today that the majority of this Chamber believe that the Dutch in the UK did not choose that their civil rights were suddenly called into question by the Brexit on 23 June 2016. That is why my group supports the assurance contained in this bill, namely the possibility for Dutch people to retain their Dutch identity if they feel forced by the Brexit conditions to accept British nationality. My group continues to worry that the guarantee of the rights of Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom is still not adequately regulated, not even in the Treaty of Accession. Therefore, it is likely that Article 4.1 of this initiative law will have to enter into force. We have listened carefully to the Secretary of State and to her interpretation of that guarantee, and we have also heard that she is confident that these rights are guaranteed by the Treaty of Accession. We don't think so. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to come back to the Salima Belhaj motion on the public campaign, following what the 50PLUS colleague said. As I said in my interrupting speech, according to my group, the letter of 16 February last from the interest groups the3million, Stichting Nederlanders Buitenland, Nederlanders in den Strange and Stichting GOOD gives very good points of reference for the assessment of whether the rights of the Dutch in the UK covered by this initiative law are sufficiently guaranteed, including in the Withdrawal Agreement. So what I've done is reverse the concerns that are in the letter. According to my group, you will then be on a list of possible solutions. In my group's view, what is needed to guarantee these rights is that there is a solution to the risk of discrimination against Dutch people solely because of a digital residence status. The second point concerns the removal of concerns, the transparency of the management of personal data in the UK. The third point is that there is a need for guarantees from the British Home Office that the rights of people with a setled and pre-setled status are guaranteed, especially because these are secondary regulations. The fourth point, which we as Democrats consider to be very important, concerns the granting of democratic rights, read vote and candidate rights in local elections in the UK. Finally, we are talking about the granting of EU law on the free movement of persons, which the Secretary of State himself has said will, of course, disappear once the transitional period has disappeared. We believe that these five points have been identified in different contributions by different groups. We would like to hear from the initiators whether they could use these five points to give charge to the word "sufficient" as provided for in Article 4 (1). Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to reflect on that as well. We hope, of course, that the British Government will be able to meet these five points and that this initiative law will not have to come into force. But, as in the context of the well-known saying better safe than sorry, we see this as an insurance for those Dutch in the UK that they no longer have to worry about their status. I will therefore recommend that my group vote in favour of this initiative law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u145	Thank you, Mrs Stienen. I call Mr Doornhof on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's been a nice way of debating so far. That's what we're hoping for. In this respect, the past offers confidence in the continuation of the debate. Mr Sjoerdsma addressed specific questions very directly and the Secretary of State gave a substantial amount of attention to the debate. I thank them for that. My first term was intended to emphasise once again the difference between the situation in which the initiators decided to take their initiative and the vote in the House of Representatives, and the situation in which we are now in, after a withdrawal agreement has actually been concluded. The question I put to Mr Sjoerdsma was also very clear. We went against the withdrawal agreement differently. At the time, we thought that was enough, not anymore, especially when you look at the implementation of that agreement. We have also seen what the Secretary of State has put forward. She's been very clear. I must say that her arguments were even stronger than in the House of Representatives. That might not have been so much about her way of explaining, but that change in time made her arguments more powerful. The Secretary of State will have to contradict me if it is not correct by saying: under my rule, unless there is a motion from the Chamber, I will not allow this law to enter into force, even if it is accepted. This leads me to three conclusions. Firstly, the judgment of the Council of State is now, of course, beginning to be more restrictive, because the Council of State has already talked about proportionality. With the support given by the Secretary of State, namely that we have that withdrawal agreement, that advice has only increased in significance. The second conclusion is that I am a bit harsh in saying that the legislative technique chosen at the time is completely obsolete. Then you could say that it was not sufficiently guaranteed, but that we all know that we mean: hard Brexit, no-deal. Now we are in a situation where we have a deal, but we still have implementation agreements. That doesn't fit in with leaving the entry into force to the Secretary of State. That is my third point. There is also a political consequence of this. Let me say it loudly: this is the hollowing out of the political primate that we like to leave here in this Chamber on the other side. The result is that we have to make the full assessment and involve everything in it. We've been thinking a little bit about an emergency bandage. The Secretary of State came forward with the motion. She says she doesn't actually see that the rights of Dutch people in the UK are not being adequately guaranteed now, so she doesn't let that law enter into force either. But should the House of Representatives come forward with a motion stating that it does, it will follow up on that motion. There are two important comments to this. Then I will also come to the questions I would like to put directly to the initiators. Is this enough? Somewhere you could say that it might be a solution if the House of Representatives felt that the Secretary of State was too firm in her opinion that it was all right in the UK. The political primate is so important in the Lower House. That is why it can also be considered an emergency link. But of course it may also be that there will be another Secretary of State who will look at it differently. It is, of course, possible, on the basis of this legislative text, to decide independently to bring this law into force. So there is an important practical political consequence to the emergency bandage we are discussing. In addition, I have a constitutional question. Maybe that's in line with what I just brought up. How do you guarantee that the parliament, in particular the House of Representatives, will be required if a Secretary of State would decide independently on the basis of this legislative text to bring the law into force? I'm just asking a very specific question. Shouldn't we be working with a change in the legal text? I understand that takes a lot of time and extra treatment. Or could we also be satisfied with an undertaking from the Secretary of State that she will first come forward with a plan to bring the law into force? Mr. Chairman. The answers to these questions will be quite decisive for the opinion of my group on the law. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u147	Thank you, Mr. Doornhof. I call Mr Van Hattem on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just heard Mrs Fox from the Labour Party keep a whole story saying that what I call "cosmopolitan" is "love." If the love for a country is so great, then I suppose that love is also big enough to be willing to accept the nationality of that country. If you are going to the United Kingdom, then you must also want to be Brit, if that country allows it. Of course, that's their choice. It shouldn't be so cosmopolitan that it all has to be possible that you can go to any country you want to go to. I hear Mrs Vos say: borders are there for a reason, because our own social security cannot exist without borders. I think that at last we are in agreement on this point, because without borders we have no social welfare state.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u149	Mrs. Vos, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u150	The more love, the more nationalities, I'd say. We certainly agree on the usefulness of borders for the welfare state. That's what the whole debate was about. It cannot be that you can eat at the same time with different nationalities of two welfare states. It can't be. Does Mr. Van Hattem agree with that analysis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u151	Absolutely. In any case, you should not have multiple nationalities and you should certainly not have multiple nationalities using different welfare states. If you have one nationality, you must also be under one jurisdiction. I emphasized this in the first term: one jurisdiction and that jurisdiction also covers the welfare state. So that's an integral part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u152	Mr Van Hattem understands the meaning of the words "can't." I had a different meaning. If you have different nationalities, you just can't eat from different angles. So the concerns that Mr Van Hattem has about this are not justified. By 'it cannot be done' I mean that it is virtually impossible to apply for assistance in two countries, for example, or for AOW. So this bill isn't about the concerns he has. You can have two nationalities, but you can't be bothered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u153	Mr Van Hattem, then continue your speech on this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u154	In theory, things are possible that can be eaten from both sides. This can also be done at local level, which is not necessarily regulated at national level. It is therefore possible in practice. All I have to do is refer to the foreign shelter, the illegal shelter, which is made possible everywhere in Dutch municipalities. The PvdA is also a strong supporter of this. Through the open borders you see all these nationalities coming together. It is all heavily subsidised here, while our older people are being cut back more and more. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the point about legal inequality, which is a bit in line with this. The Secretary of State had a very clear point, because for Dutch people who are in the United Kingdom, a dual nationality is facilitated, but for people who stay in the Netherlands, this is not facilitated. So you can have the following situation: Hassan in Tilburg I mentioned him earlier in the first term... cannot have a double nationality and his uncle Faisal in Birmingham can have a double nationality. Towards the Somali community, this would be very unfair in terms of legal inequality. So we simply have to choose one nationality. With this, the problem is solved and you have nothing to worry about anymore. Speaking of the Somali community, here's what we're talking about. Mr Sjoerdsma said in his term: if you do not want them all to come here, you must vote for this bill. I don't see this anymore. If this bill is passed, they will have a dual nationality for up to days. Then they can always come back to the Netherlands. If we don't, sooner or later they have to make a choice to become Brit, Dutch, Somali or whatever. They are not allowed to hold double nationality; in any case, they are not allowed to hold double Dutch nationality. That makes sense. Then you do not have the possibility to migrate here for a long time with a Dutch passport in your pocket. We're talking about legal inequality. In the 1950s, for example, a lot of Dutch people emigrated to Canada. What were they supposed to do as soon as they entered Canada? They had to turn in their Dutch passport and become Canadian. They've all done it without a hitch or a hitch. They all learned English neatly. They worked their asses off there. If we are talking about legal inequality, those people have also had to turn in their passports. So why should we make an exception for the Dutch sitting in the UK now, just because the United Kingdom was part of that terrible EU? Just treat them equally with the people who are in Canada, New Zealand, the US or other countries, where they have built up a beautiful existence. Finally, Mr President. Then I have a piece on the evidence. I had a discussion on this with the Secretary of State; at least I had asked a question about it. The Secretary of State says that they are seen in conjunction and not without obligation. I wonder how strong that cohesion is. We see in the Netherlands that the Basic Registration Persons is often not in order here. There's a lot of mistakes in it. At least 3%, I say memorized, is wrong, because the address is wrong. There is therefore a very high risk that it will simply be widely cheated that this group will be able to increase this as evidence in conjunction with it. How strict is that control going to be? How strongly is this coherence assessed? And are sanctions also being imposed if, for example, it turns out that people have been cheating on this? Will the passport be revoked again? That would also be a very justified sanction. Mr President, so far in the second period. The PVV Group will, of course, vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u155	Thank you, Mr. Van Hattem. I call Mrs Huizinga-Heringa, who will speak on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u156	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the initiators and also the Secretary of State for their reply. I certainly do not intend to repeat what I said in the first term about the principle of equality, which can only be waived for serious reasons. I think that we have been given a lot of clarity in this debate. For my group, it is clear that the proportionate measures referred to by the Council of State are indeed there and that they are being taken, but the initiators have hesitations. These proportionate measures have been taken on the basis of the Treaty of Accession, which is in force, but the initiators have reservations about these arrangements. Their appreciation of this is that it is really tight because of the implementation. They are also still afraid that over time, in the course of the negotiations on the trade deal, it may deteriorate. The Secretary of State has a very different appreciation and says: these measures work well and give sufficient legal certainty and, in fact, there is no need to take stronger measures as proposed by this initiative. That is a state of affairs that we are dealing with now. If you think about it, it's about what's gonna happen when the law's passed. The Secretary of State says there's no need to take any action. The initiators and others say that this must be done. Mr Kox asked whether it would be useful for us to say that there would be a motion. The Secretary of State has promised that if there is a motion in which the Chamber says that it thinks it should be acted on because the treaty is not good and that the law must be put into effect, the Secretary of State will do so. It may also happen, of course, Mr Doornhof pointed out that at some point the government says that it does not think it is enough, that it wants to bring the law into force and that the Chamber may wish to discuss it. There's no provision for that. So I really miss the opportunity to make a royal decision in this law. Mr Doornhof said the same thing. I also wonder whether the Secretary of State can undertake to do so and whether the initiators can take a step in that direction. I think that would make the law considerably stronger, because now I really consider this to be a weakness in the proposal. The last point I want to make is that this law has no horizon either. It's just working. It stays above the market. No, it's not working; I see you looking. He's here, and there's a lot hanging over the market that he's gonna come into operation. Have the initiators also thought about a horizon clause in this law and do they see any chance of meeting it in one way or another? That is my group's question, and that is all I have to say. We can talk for a very long time about two nationalities and single nationality. There is a lot to be said about this, but for me these are the main points of this law at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u157	Thank you, Mrs Huizinga, then the floor is for Mr Van der Burg to speak on behalf of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not so much for you as for the viewers at home: on behalf of the VVD, before there is a misunderstanding. Thanks to the initiators, thanks to the Secretary of State. In the second term, I would like to dwell on two things. The first is legal inequality. The second is the how and why of the entry into force. The Secretary of State is very keen on the legal inequality created by this law, because one group gets a double nationality where another does not get it. Everyone has the right, of course, to say everything, no misunderstanding about that, but in fact I think there is only one person in this Chamber who can really use that argument, and that is Mr Van Hattem. He's just saying, "Double nationality is out of the question," done. That is the position of the PVV. I do not agree, but at least it is clear and clear. When I look at practice, we know a lot of exceptions to the rule of no double nationality, which are simply in our laws and regulations. That could be related to marriages and birth. I mentioned in my first term the example of our Deputy Prime Minister, our Queen and the Vice-President of the States-General, of which two of the three cannot give up their nationality either, namely the Queen and the Vice-President of the States-General. They cannot give up that nationality on the basis of their other nationality. The strange thing is that we are having this debate because there is a Brexit. Had there been a grexit, we would not have had this debate at all. The Greeks can't give up their nationality. Then all of them would have taken Dutch nationality, Kees is done. I am saying this a little strange about Mrs Karimi, but the happy fact that she comes from a country that forbids her from giving up her nationality means that she is entitled to have a double nationality. So we already know inequality between people who, for whatever reason, have or do not have a dual nationality. With this law, we add a small category. Whether it is ten, twenty or thirty thousand people, it is a much smaller group than all the other people who are already eligible for those derogations that are in various legislation. Then there is my second point. Perhaps it has escaped the initiators, perhaps not, but we have today...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u159	That is quite correct what Mr Van der Burg says, from a to z. Wouldn't that in thinking of the VVD mean that you should consider multiple nationality as normal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u160	What you heard me say in the first term is that this debate is not about many things; it is not about the economic consequences of the British's withdrawal, it is not about the power effects it has, and I have mentioned a number of points. One of the points I mentioned that is not the subject of this debate is the broader principle of dual nationality. In this particular case, it concerns this particular group. Why I used this argument, in this case towards the Secretary of State, is that if we also make exceptions in other legislation, that is not an argument for not being able to do it here. I would like, or one of my group colleagues, to discuss with you or with others about double nationality in broad terms, but that is not under discussion today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u161	That disappoints me a little, because your group, although in the House of Representatives, is one of the co-initiators. In that sense you could also say: yes, indeed, we add another exception. But that doesn't deserve a beauty prize anyway. Then we should enter into that fundamental debate, as the Secretary of State also said. Austria and the Netherlands are the only remaining countries to stick to it. So I would ask you to take the gauntlet with me, at least towards your House of Representatives, so that this debate can get off the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u162	I always want to have a debate with you. In that sense, your and my hands are bound by law and Constitution. For example, we do not have the right of initiative. We, you and I, can't make a bill, even if we want to. That must really come from the cabinet or the Lower House. Should there be a legislative proposal from the Lower House or from the Cabinet on this issue, I will say "I," but that can of course also be someone else on my party's behalf........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Talk about it. Now it's about this particular law. Mr. Chairman. Then to the second point: when does this law enter into force? We have today, I believe, for the third time corrected if I say it wrongly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, about whether decisions of a Chamber should be implemented. In doing so, it makes a big difference whether it concerns legislative acts including amendments or motions for resolutions. That is a discussion that we had this afternoon; at least, not the discussion, but the decision on it. In this particular case, it seems most clear to me that at the time of the adoption of this law by the First Chamber, it would appear that the House of Representatives, where the political primacy lies, then indicates by motion that it thinks that at that time the law should enter into force because the rights of the Dutch in the United Kingdom are not sufficiently guaranteed by what is ahead, the cabinet should immediately bring the law into force and should not make any further consideration. Because, of course, the Secretary of State signs if the law is by the Second and First Chambers, but this is specifically about the issue of the royal decree, with which it enters into force. Moreover, I considered the question of the Christian Union to be extremely appropriate in this respect. We have set a horizon at the back, but we may also need to think about a horizon... "At the front" sounds a little weird, but you get my point. But it can't be that, if the House of Representatives later said "we think that it is not sufficiently guaranteed in the present situation," the cabinet still makes its own assessment, given that this is a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u163	I have to laugh about it a little bit. I saw it coming. My question is this. Suppose the House of Representatives does not table that motion, that we take note of it and submit the motion here that says it will. What do you think should happen then? You provoked it, but I was planning on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u164	No problem at all. You know how I feel about that. The political primate is on the other side of us. We are there to judge laws on a number of issues. This means that in this case we are looking at whether this law, dealt with and adopted in the House of Representatives, is of such quality that you and I agree that it should be adopted. You have heard my conclusion in my first term: yes, I think so. I believe that the question about the word "sufficient" should be an interaction between the cabinet and the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u165	You are making things even worse, because now you say: whether something is sufficient is solely up to the judgment of the House of Representatives. The average IQ level of these Members of Parliament compared with that of the Members of Parliament on the other side of the House, apart from that, I know something about this. But if the House of Representatives does not do so and if we adopt the draft law next week, the proposal for an initiative, if that happens, then I cannot imagine that we have accepted it with a reasonably convincing majority, I think, saying: we are waiting and if the House of Representatives continues to take the kuierlatten on this subject, then we are satisfied with it. I can't imagine. Then you can expect me, perhaps because I was one of the initiators at the time, and expect others to come forward with a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u166	I will stay away from the question about whether or not IQ differences are present between First and Second Chambers, but at least I note that they are with the double number of people. That argues in their favor when it comes to the sum total. We'll, hopefully, pass the law next week. The law then enters into force by royal decree. That's a political choice. Suppose the cabinet doesn't and say that the House of Representatives lets me use an arbitrary term that dislikes at this point, then that's a political decision that belongs to the House of Representatives. We judge, as I said to you this afternoon, laws and not rulers. At least this afternoon, I said "Ministers," but in this case, of course, I'm turning it into "directors." That's really on the other side of the street.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u167	Mr. Van Rooijen, third time. I would ask you to refrain from evaluating the IQs of fellow representatives of the people. That's not appropriate and it's not neat either, so don't you want to do that? Let me now give you the floor for your third question in this round of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u168	Mr Van der Burg spoke of'sufficient'. He felt that the assessment of whether something is sufficient is exclusively up to the House of Representatives. That remark about the IQ did not refer to the IQ of the MPs on the other side, but to the fact that you do need some IQ for an opinion on whether something is sufficient. This applies to both the Lower House and the Upper Chamber. That's what I wanted to say, because that's what I meant. I thought that was obvious. I have been in the Lower House and I would not want to change the light of day for colleagues across the street, who are sitting here now. I also heard this afternoon, after the debate on the Kox motion which was adopted, with our support, that your colleague, your group chairman, Mr Jorritsma, said that perhaps the time has come to abolish the First Chamber. What do you think? Is this all because of the emperor's beard? Of course, the House of Representatives has the primacy in politics, but "primaat" does not mean "only." How am I supposed to understand Mr Jorritsma's remark that perhaps it would be better to abolish the First Chamber now? I remember a remark made by Mr Van Iersel once...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u169	Then I have one more comment. I ask you to stay with the bill in your questioning. I would also ask Mr Van der Burg to confine himself to the legislative proposal in the reply he is about to give. Mr. Van der Burg, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u170	I would, of course, have done so, because I did the same to Mrs Karimi in response to a question from her. Of course, I cannot treat her any less than I would treat Mr Van Rooijen, so I am not going to answer it. That is a debate for another time and another time. The point is this: once the law has been passed, the cabinet must decide whether or not it will allow the law to enter into force through a KB. That's what's laid down in the law. Nor is it the term "sufficient" that I invent, Mr President, it is the term "sufficient" used by the initiators, which I believe was originally one of them, in relation to the time of introduction of the law. So the initiators say: when the rights of the Dutch in the United Kingdom are sufficiently guaranteed, the law does not have to enter into force. Even stronger: it is Mr Sjoerdsma's and his colleagues' ambition that the law does not enter into force. The one who has to judge that, because it is a royal decision, is the Secretary of State. We had a debate in the first term where the question was: does the Secretary of State still have a political consideration to make? I say: "Dear Secretary of State, when there is a law, it will normally come into effect at the time you set the countersign. The specific situation here is that we all hope that the law will not enter into force. So it's just at the point of "sufficient." As I said by the Christian Union, the SGP and this afternoon, the word "sufficient" is not an objective criterion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u171	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mr. Van Rooijen, you have a short, final question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u172	What I'm worried about, if you'll allow me, is this. In recent months, when the Upper House takes a different position than the Lower House, we hear the VVD say on a regular basis: that is not really the task of the Upper Chamber? I would like to point out that it is our job. Let me leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u173	Mr. Van der Burg, would you like to resume your speech? I'm turning the clock back on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u174	Of course, Mr. Chairman. I will remain well within the time you have given me. My question is, however, that there should also be an explicit reflection on this from both the initiators and the Secretary of State. I do think it is important that we have a clear process. I am concerned about the process of how and when the law enters into force or does not enter into force and how that consideration is made. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van der Burg. Mrs Nanninga has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you for your explanation, I say to the initiators and the Secretary of State. The questions we had have been answered. Most of the doubts and doubts that were still alive have been largely removed. We too look forward to a future debate on whether or not to allow dual nationalities, on which Mrs Karimi, Mr Van Hattem and Mr Van der Burg already made an advance. We look forward to that. In the nearer future, however, I will first issue a voting opinion to our group on this initiative proposal. As has already been said, we consider a safety net for Dutch people on the other side of the North Sea, as proposed here by the initiators, highly desirable. We have heard convincing arguments in the answer which contradict that this proposal would be contrary to the principle of equality. The feasibility is no easy task, but neither is the Brexit itself. The absence of an exact prognosis of the number of persons eligible and wishing to benefit from this scheme is certainly still a point. But all things considered, I will advise the FvD Group to vote in favour of this proposal, in the interests of the Brexit and in the interests of the Dutch in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u177	Thank you. Mr Van Hattem has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u178	I do not think that the Brexit will depend on this rather superfluous proposal, but I would nevertheless like to ask Mrs Nanninga a question about the point she has just made. She said she's looking forward to a debate on double nationality. But I would not question that dual nationality at all, because it is not allowed in the Netherlands at the moment, so we do not need to debate it. With this bill, that double nationality is made possible again a little bit. A precedent is being created again. This undermines the fact that there is no dual nationality. So why would Mrs Nanninga want to have a debate on dual nationality if that is actually completely unnecessary? 'Cause it can't be right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u179	Mr. Van Hattem is out here longer than I am. I am sure he will feel the way things are going and that this debate is probably going to happen. That has also been said a little bit by the Secretary of State. So if we go into that debate with each other, I think it would be very nice and interesting to have that. I think that we will also take a very critical view on this. I can repeat part of my first term and focus on this discussion. We have really weighed those interests in this and we have come to another priority in this case. Exceptions, by the way... I'm gonna talk all English, Mr. Chairman. There are exceptions to that nationality law now. That's what you read in the documents you read. That's not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u180	Mr. Van Hattem, do you have any other subject you'd like to ask me about? 'Cause now it's gonna be a bit of a rerun of moves, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u181	Yes, Mr President, but I would like to clarify this. We are now talking about those exceptions that Mrs Nanninga cites. Those exceptions are there, but with this law an exception is added. So that makes that dual nationality possible further. So instead of saying that perhaps we are going to have a joint debate on this and that a firm position will be taken, Forum is actually opening up the gate to further facilitate that dual nationality. And that's gonna be a big problem. Because all those people who have dual nationality will soon also say: yes, we also want to be eligible for public office. And I believe you're against that, too. You'll get a double nationality with a double jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u182	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u183	My question is: do you not see that as a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u184	Mr Van Hattem actually sees this safety net as a kind of gateway drug to harder work. That's not how we see it. As I said, this is a very exceptionally defined group of people. It also touches a little on the debate on the principle of equality, equals in equal cases. This is a very unique case. As far as the debate on dual nationalities is concerned, Mr Van Hattem and I know that the political wind is blowing so much that, of course, this is being discussed on the left. One would very much like that there. I repeat, however, when I say that we have weighed this up and that we have set a different priority from the PVV. We are not in favour of dual nationality. That is what I said in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u185	No, Mr. Van Hattem. I'm gonna end this. Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. Finally, Mr Kox of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u186	Mr. Chairman. I like all this. I was at the counter last night, messing with a siphon. I wanted to clean it up, but then I thought, "Oh, I'd complain, 'cause tomorrow I'm gonna see our officekeepers cleaning all day." Thank you for all this work. I look forward to a discussion, perhaps better than a debate, about nationality and identity. That's worth it. I say to Mr Van Hattem: research everything and preserve the good. That's a decent Catholic statement, isn't it? So don't say you don't have to examine anything anymore because it's all good. If we do so, I suggest that we do so in this Chamber, because Mr Van Hattem already referred to the symbol above, the stars. He thought they belonged to the European Union, but of course they belong to the Council of Europe, in which we are all European citizens. I should also like to refer to Article 1 of the Constitution, which regulates the dual nationality of the Limburgers; at that time, Mr Van Hattem. I would also like to refer to Article 5 of the 1848 Constitution, which for the first time referred to the concept of being a Dutch citizen. We didn't have that in advance, and that was thought of at the time. It is a rather modernist concept, the nationality, but if we are to hold a symposium on this subject, I am happy to participate, because there is much to be said about it; but not with this bill. As far as this bill is concerned, I have said that this is not mom's finest. I think this has been confirmed, but honesty also commands to say that initiative legislative proposals are often not the most beautiful of mothers. This is because it often solves a specific problem that arises. As the initiator, Mr Sjoerdsma, said, we searched and found this. This is a solution to a concrete problem, a concrete injustice. It's not a beauty contest when it comes to legislative initiative. The question is: is the remedy appropriate to the problem? Considering everything, I think this is the case here. I still hope that the bill will not have to come into force, because no one is waiting for ugly legislative proposals, unless they tackle ugly injustice. Then it's okay. I believe that everyone agrees that the problem lies with the principle of equality. Mr Sjoerdsma said it was a unique situation. I would like to talk to him about this again, because when the Soviet Union broke up, millions of people woke up at once and thought: 'Hey, I'm not Russian at once, they call me Let or Ukrainian now. That is another debate, by the way, but this is not unique. It happened a few years ago. Mr. Chairman. I think it is most important now that we agree that the wording of Article 4 is vague, that there is the decisive role for the State Secretary, which is stated in the legislative proposal, but at the same time everyone believes that it should be the case that Parliament has something to say about it. If we choose that path, if Parliament finds that there is a situation of insufficient civil rights guarantee, the Parliament can report it. I share everything Mr Van Rooijen says about the role of this Chamber, but I think it is excellent if that happens in the House of Representatives. And it will take place there as well. What Mr Van der Burg said about this was a learning process. When the House of Representatives says they really want it that way, the Secretary of State will follow it of course. Not because the Secretary of State does what the House of Representatives wants, but because that is the relationship between government and parliament. If we don't guard them properly, we're gonna get in trouble. We were able to see that recently. I think that's important. If we agree on this, it is part of the legal history and then there will be no problems. I hope that the Secretary of State will never have to bring the law into force, because the fundamental rights of 100,000 people, the Dutch who now live in England, will not be harmed. I really hope so, but under the circumstances that we are not sure, my group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u187	Thank you, Mr. Kox. For the Acts: you said "Vice-President of the States General." You may have meant the President of the Second Chamber of the States-General. He is a member of the United Assembly of the States-General. The Vice-President of the United States General Assembly is the first Vice-President of the First Chamber, Mrs Jopie Noorden, who, as I know, has no double passport. If it is, it's news. Then we'll straighten that out right away. Everything wasn't as perfect as Mr. Van der Burg said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u188	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u189	And for the record, the second Vice-President of the United Assembly is the second Vice-President of the First Chamber, Mrs Gerkens. Well, then we've got that straightened out. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Initiators and Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Thanks also to everyone for the debate, the open debate, for the input and the critical comments, but also, of course, for the support expressed in the second term. The initiators are very pleased with this, from the SP and Forum for Democracy to other initiating parties. That's very much appreciated. At the core, this is a situation in which up to 100,000 Dutch people suffer from something they have not chosen, which they have not had any influence on, but which can have far-reaching consequences. I will do my best to answer the second-term questions as briefly and concisely as possible. I want to start with the fact that we have chosen to activate the bill by royal decree. That has everything to do with how this Brexit developed, the roller coaster that it has been. For a long time there has been uncertainty as to whether a exit agreement could have been reached at all. If there were any exit agreement, it would be uncertain what its content would be. In view of these many possible scenarios, it would therefore be unclear whether and at what point the legislative proposal would automatically have entered into force. Think, for example, of a discussion on whether the exit agreement contains clear guarantees and whether the conditions for automatic entry into force would be met in a specific situation. A royal decision prevents this ambiguity, because once it has been taken, it is clear that and when the legislative proposal will come into force. As long as there is no royal decree, it is clear that the bill has not yet entered into force. And in this way we are avoiding this, I think, is an important wish of some parties to give the Dutch in the United Kingdom an option, namely the adoption of British nationality, which they would not be entitled to at that time, given the situation. But we are also sure that the safety net is ready for when it is needed. That's the route we've chosen. Then I come to the framework on which you judge whether this law is necessary. The word "sufficient" has been dropped. I do not agree with the CDA's view that the lower limit has shifted. No, the emphasis has shifted from the exit agreement on paper to the way it is implemented. I believe that we should look at this in two ways. Firstly, there is the formal meaning of the legislative text. It's here right now. However, I warned that this text might not be available at the end of the year. For that situation, we must have this law anyway. Secondly, I have also referred to the material implementation, which has already been very poor as far as the initiators are concerned. To put it further, I have heard the wishes of this Chamber well. I think the lower limit is laid down in the law. These are the exit agreements and the civil rights contained in them. If one of these agreements is not implemented, the implementation will fall through the lower limit and this law will have to enter into force. To give just one example, if Union citizens are entitled to stay on the basis of the exit agreement, but they would not get it from the United Kingdom, while the conditions for it are fulfilled, then this law must enter into force. That's what I'm gonna tell the Secretary of State. She screened that 1% had not yet received this status, which they might have been entitled to. But 1% is 35,000 people, because there are 3.5 million Europeans in the UK. Then I'll get to the weighings. There I tasted a difference of opinion between the Secretary of State and the initiators on how we stand at the moment. The Secretary of State says the text is as it is now. The Secretary of State and the initiators do not disagree. That's right. However, we do differ on the possibility that this text may no longer apply at the end of the year. Even more so: I think we differ on the way in which this text is being implemented in practice at the moment. The Secretary of State himself said: we can judge that very well when the Chamber comes with a motion; that will require a little more investigation. The initiators did this research, in collaboration with the organisations representing interest, and then drew this conclusion. I hope that the Secretary of State will do that before she concludes that it is all in order in practice. That is what we are discussing at the moment. I also heard the question: if this is the way you weigh it, then who is the weigher? Let me put it this way: by law we have proposed that this is the Secretary of State, but in fact that is, of course, the Cabinet in the form of the Secretary of State. So I tell the CDA that the Secretary of State will never be able to decide on her own. This is a cabinet decision taken in the form of the Secretary of State. That, as Mr Kox of the SP states, Parliament has an important role to play here, the initiators would like to emphasise. The same applies to what has been said by Mr Van der Burg, Mr Kox and others: at the time when there is a motion tabled by the House of Representatives, it may be expected that this motion will be carried out. You can argue the other way: if the Secretary of State decided to bring this law into force, Parliament should first be consulted. Some of you have insisted on this. I would like to say that I do not think that is necessary, for the following reason. If the Secretary of State and the Cabinet were to decide to do so, it would seem obvious to me, given the attitude of the Secretary of State now, that there is a situation in which the Dutch in the United Kingdom are very badly affected. I honestly wonder whether the House of Representatives would still need to say: no, we see that differently. I can tell from the whole atmosphere of this debate that it is your assessment, and perhaps that of the initiators, that it will rather be the House of Representatives to assess that it is insufficient and that it needs to be acted on, than the State Secretary will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u191	I would like to thank Mr Sjoerdsma once again for answering questions in concrete terms. That works very nicely. In this context, I would like to ask the following question. Of course, it is about the office of Secretary of State or, as you rightly said, it is about KB: the cabinet. But we have now heard in the reply that there is quite a bit of light with this Secretary of State between the question of whether the rights in the UK are right and the views of the initiators on them. I believe that the work agreement we are discussing is acceptable in this setting. I am not going to have another discussion about the technique of legislation that was constructed at a time when we were still talking about a no-deal. However, when we talk about this emergency link, I think we should think a little bit longer about the question: what if there is another State Secretary, who has a Chamber opposite him who says that it is well arranged and that it turns out to be very good with the rights there, while the Secretary of State there is some sort of political agenda...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u192	Can you come to your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u193	Yeah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u194	It's starting to look like a third term. What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u195	Will Mr Sjoerdsma answer the question whether a little more thought should be given?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u196	I get the question. I will not comment on the office of Secretary of State or any exchange of Secretary of State. The way I think it is, it's pretty simple. We give this Secretary of State and the Cabinet, as well as subsequent Cabinets, with this law the guidelines to make a decision. I hope that I have just clarified once again what guidelines these are in a formal and substantive sense, how you could weigh them and what role Parliament has in them. The situation you describe is a situation in which a future cabinet or a future secretary of state, it is always a danger to go into a "dance" situation, and the Chamber does not want to do so. I would simply like to say that it is also a matter for the Chamber to stop or ask it to withdraw this law, either by motion or by initiative proposal. I am speaking on behalf of a part of the Chamber, of course, but it is in the hands of a future Chamber whether it wants to use instruments or not. It is also in the hands of the future cabinet or wants to do so. But it does feel very hypothetical.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u197	Mr. Doornhof, one short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u198	Yes, Mr President, but it is important to focus on this. Of course, it is not so hypothetical at all, because we are now in the opposite situation, namely a Lower House saying that it is all very compelling and a Secretary of State saying that there is little going on. The other way around, I'd say. Falling back on the general powers that exist, I find that inadequate. Why? Because, in my group's opinion, this should have been in the law. The influence of the people's representatives on entry into force should have been better anchored. At least the question is: what about these rights in the UK? Because we are talking about an emergency link, it is quite right to ask the question: how are you going to influence as a parliament when you think that the cabinet is opting for entry into force far too easily?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u199	At the risk that it will be a somewhat philosophical debate about the role of the House of Representatives and the way in which the House of Representatives would like to use the instruments, I think it is up to the House of Representatives. I do not think it would be appropriate for us as initiators to assume how the House of Representatives should deal with such a situation. I fully agree with those who have said that the House of Representatives has an important role to play in this and that it should also be able to play an important role in the activation of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u200	Mr. Doornhof, the third and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u201	What you're saying here, I can imagine a lot. But the problem is that the law should have been different. It's, roughly speaking, made in a time of no-deal. That is why I think there should be another answer to that. Maybe you still want to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u202	I will think about it, but I fear that at least today I have nothing more to add to the answers I have given earlier. I'm just checking what questions I haven't answered. I saw another question from the PVV group. They talked about legal inequality between a person in Tilburg and a person in the United Kingdom. One could assume a double nationality under this bill and the other could not. That's right, and I think that's right and not legally unfair. That person in the United Kingdom is in a situation where he or she, without being able to exercise any influence on him or her by means of a vote or on the other hand, sees his or her rights disappear or be endangered. That doesn't apply to that person in Tilburg. By being here in the Netherlands and living here with a Dutch nationality, that person simply retains the Union citizenship, freedom of movement and all the benefits that Dutch nationality offers him or her. So I don't see that equation. I do not see the comparison with Canada either. Everyone who has emigrated to Canada knows that it is not part of the European Union. Moreover, they often emigrated to Canada before a European Union existed. Canada has never separated and never changed status. Those people deliberately chose to leave the Netherlands. Sometimes they've chosen to be Canadian. Sometimes they have opted for temporary residence status. Sometimes they lost Dutch nationality because they simply forgot to renew their passport in time. For the latter case, hopefully a solution will now be found, but not from the side of the initiators, but from the side of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. I hope I've done justice to everyone with this. If it isn't, I'll take a look around...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u203	Mr Van Rooijen. Not quite yet, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u204	I asked a question about the secondary legislature. If something changes, what are the legal remedies for the Dutch in the United Kingdom? Does this include the Court of Justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u205	That's a good question. I think the Secretary of State correctly stated the net in her reply in the first term: Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom will then be able to avail themselves of the possibilities offered by the Court. The reason why the initiators do not think that route is sufficient is actually two-fold. One: it concerns individual cases which are not necessarily comparable. And two: the average case at the Court lasts two years. With regard to the rights involved and the uncertainty and potential damage to the lives of people involved, such as living and working conditions and family reunification opportunities, we do not think that this is an optimal solution. We don't think that's the safety net that's needed right now, and so we're choosing this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u206	Thank you for that answer. I also meant my question otherwise, without the last mention of the Court. What happens if the secondary legislature is changed? What impact does that have on our Dutch citizens in the United Kingdom? Isn't that an extra reason to do this? That was my question, actually. The risks are huge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u207	The Secretary of State has said that the United Kingdom is bound by the Treaty of Accession. In legal terms, of course, that is the case. But you are also a follower of foreign policy, and unfortunately it is not always the case that 'pacta sunt servanda' is not always accepted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u208	That's Latin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u209	Latin is also more and more fashionable in politics, and I am trying to contribute to that. But what matters is that these legal agreements are not always honoured. As initiators, we have outlined a situation in which it is certainly not unimaginable that, although Mr Johnson made this legal agreement, he would consider it politically appropriate to violate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u210	Mr. Van Rooijen, last and third?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u211	It was actually a bit separate from the current, sitting Prime Minister. We are talking about changing governments, in the Netherlands and beyond. That's the underlying concern I have. Perhaps the Secretary of State would like to comment on this later. In the discussions I had, which we had at the time, this gave an extra dimension to the uncertainty that exists. It was said: yes, but the governments there can do things without involving Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u212	Mr Sjoerdsma, a brief answer to the last question. Then I'll go to Mrs Huizinga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u213	In fact, the civil rights as regulated in the exit agreement have been transposed into secondary legislation and regulations. The British Parliament could therefore be sidelined if the Johnson Government decided to amend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u214	I have not yet heard an answer, perhaps you have given it and I have not heard it at my question whether it is also possible to include a horizon clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u215	You're right. That's a fair reminder of that question. There is, of course, a horizon clause in the functioning of the law itself, but as Mrs Huizinga rightly said, there is no horizon clause in how long this safety net stays above the market. We chose to do this because, if this safety net were to automatically expire, we would not know what to do in a situation where there is a need to do something with it. Then how do we solve this situation? Then we should actually start this legal process all over again. Let me put it hypothetically: if this bill is now five years above the market, if it has fortunately not had to be used and if it is a thorn in the eyes of either Mrs Huizinga or a group, then of course everyone is free to withdraw it by means of another law. The cabinet is also free to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u216	I would like to see, also because of clarity and clarity, whether certain criteria can be formulated. As in the law the criterion is sufficiently formulated, so you could also formulate a criterion and say: if that is at issue, then the law will lapse. It's kind of weird to let a law exist and to say, if it doesn't bother anyone, well, then there's that law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u217	I fear that I will not be able to resolve this dilemma for Mrs Huizinga, because of the nature of the law and because of the nature of the problem. It is a very urgent and potentially large-scale problem. I'm afraid we won't be able to change that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u218	Mrs Huizinga, a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u219	I have followed the interruption debate with Mr Doornhof. You know that we have also asked whether it is possible to put forward the royal decree. I was wondering if the initiators could send us a letter in which it will be clearly explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u220	No. Forgive me if I haven't done that clearly enough, but I just tried to explain in my second term why we chose the method of a royal decision. We have done so because of the great uncertainty and the great unforeseenness in this process. That is why we felt we should avoid giving people, in this case the Dutch in the UK, a bonus in the form of British nationality which they would not be entitled to. That means there's got to be a weighing moment. The other example of the weighing moment, of the royal decree, is that we also know for sure that the safety net is there when it is needed. To be honest, I have no need of that veil, and we as initiators, given the speed with which this kind of thing should be done. I didn't taste that need in the Lower House of the Secretary of State either. She's talking about her own answers. If she wishes to express that need, she is of course free to do so, but I do not think we should go that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u221	I regret that you do not even want to write another letter about this, but I am extremely curious whether the Secretary of State would like to say some sensible words about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u222	I would like to ask Mr Sjoerdsma whether Mrs Huizinga is not asking a very reasonable question, because I still miss the recognition that the choice of the KB and its wording were made at a time when we talked about deal or no deal. I understand that you are now saying that there are a lot of scenarios conceivable, but when the House of Representatives spoke about this proposal, all these scenarios were not at all in the picture. So I also understand that this technique was chosen at that time. I'm honest with you about that. But I also said in my first term that perhaps it would have been better to think about the technique after the withdrawal agreement had been piloted by the British Parliament. I think it's never too late. Perhaps this week you would like to take advantage of this informal... I understand you're saying we're not gonna start putting it back in the law. But do you want to think about this this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u223	I always want to think about that. I must admit that my knowledge of the law process is the lesser of most people here in the house. I no longer see any formal possibility of adapting what is laid down here in the law, which is contained in the legal history, in such a way that it could in any way do justice to what you are asking me now. Even if I were inclined to follow that, I don't see the possibility of doing that. Mr Kox said that this law is not mom's finest; I do not entirely agree with him. I wouldn't want to complicate the law any more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u224	Then I would like to thank the initiators for their reply. Then, in the second term, the government will have the floor. I shall give the floor to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security after the cathedral has been cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u225	Mr President, thank you. Mr Doornhof has just referred to the fact that this bill of origin has been discussed in the House of Representatives in a different time period than it is now. At that time, the situation was very uncertain. Were you talking about autumn 2019 for a hard Brexit or not? Finally, a withdrawal agreement was reached on 31 January, which entered into force at midnight. So that hard Brexit from back then didn't go through with it. The withdrawal agreement lays down the position of EU citizens in the United Kingdom. The law that passed in the autumn of 2019 has a horizon clause. This law doesn't know that. It has just been mentioned several times by several people and I also heard Mr Sjoerdsma say: it may be that after five years the law is still above the market and that there may be a reason for... You can imagine that the law would not have entered into force before then, because it is still hanging over the market. But it could also be ten or fifteen years. There is no such possibility, it is not in the law, but I would like to say something about it. I find it difficult to have legislation that stays above the market for an uncertain situation. Anyway, that's the case. The issue concerns in particular the entry into force of the law. When will that law enter into force if the rights of Dutch people in the United Kingdom are not sufficiently guaranteed? That's what it's about. The withdrawal agreement has provided sufficient guarantees. That withdrawal agreement was concluded by the European Union with the United Kingdom. You may find me very old-fashioned, but if the whole of the European Union concludes that agreement with the United Kingdom, then I assume that the whole of the European Union, especially the Netherlands, considers that the Netherlands has made a strong effort to do so to ensure sufficient guarantees for Union citizens in the United Kingdom. What I have just tasted in the discussion is that if this law is passed next week, it really seems like it is, and I really think that this is a great success for the initiators. I will be able to see a motion in the House of Representatives in no time, so that the law can come into force. I do not think that was the intention of the initiators. The issue is whether there are sufficient safeguards. This whole year 2020 is, in any case, a transitional year. So all the rights of Union citizens are still under the old system. So that doesn't change anything at the time. The withdrawal agreement then ensures that the rights of Union citizens are adequately guaranteed. I am assuming that this is not only true for me, because all the Member States of the European Union have assumed that the withdrawal agreement is sufficient. Only if the United Kingdom is in flagrant contradiction with everything that has been agreed, so if it changes the rules, for example, it does not listen to judgments of the Court in Luxembourg, should there be rulings, etc. etc., and so on, we have also discussed this in the first period, and we are indeed in a situation that is not currently foreseen. In view of the UK track record in compliance with agreements and agreements, we can also assume that this will not happen. In this respect, I am therefore saying: yes, the entry into force is not currently being discussed and, as far as I am concerned, probably, almost certainly, is not being discussed, because the withdrawal agreement provides sufficient guarantees for the position of Union citizens in the United Kingdom. I see Mr Van der Burg standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u226	Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u227	Oh, so is Mrs. Karimi. I understand from the first term that Mr. Van der Burg is looking from his corners of the eye. I have also looked from my eye angle, but from my left eye angle and then I come to Mrs Karimi. My right eye angle might fit Mr. Van der Burg better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u228	That's a little weird, I'd say left and right eye corner. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u229	Yeah, it's special.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u230	From me, it's very different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u231	Mr Sjoerdsma stated in his reply that the applicants agreed in substance that the exit agreement was a substantive basis, but that they did not agree with the State Secretary on its implementation. He said that the applicants would be subject to the criterion that the United Kingdom does not act correctly in respect of one of the agreements made therein. A single case is therefore sufficient. But I see that the Secretary of State has a very wide range and then wants to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u232	I find this a very difficult question to answer. If one appointment doesn't go well, would that be enough? This also depends on how and what: what are the circumstances and what is the situation? I hope that Mrs Karimi has sufficient confidence, perhaps not in this cabinet, and I understand that these are other parties, but still in the government of this country, in the sense that there is proper surgery and that, if the cabinet sees that it is not good, the cabinet is taking measures. That would be the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u233	I always have faith in the Dutch government, but at the same time a 'but' comes around the corner. We have a parliament. A parliament, of course, also has a controlling role to play. The purpose of this specific legislative proposal is to involve the Parliament of Parliament or the House of Representatives in the assessment and weighting of the situation. My specific question is: what would be the reaction of the Secretary of State if next week the initiators did indeed come up with a motion which found that in the implementation of one of the agreements of the expropriation agreement the United Kingdom did not take sufficient action or did not do so, if that motion were tabled and had sufficient support in the House of Representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u234	I have just said that none of this is on the agenda for this whole year 2020, because it is a transitional year and then the same rights apply to Union citizens in the United Kingdom and to British citizens in the European Union. There's nothing going on right now about conditions of withdrawal or whatever. That is not at all the issue right now. In reply to Mr Kox, who specifically asked me to do so, I also said in the first term: listen, if there is a motion from the House of Representatives to bring the law into force, because there are not enough guarantees, because those guarantees have been compromised, then that is a serious point. Motions are serious matters, but they also need to be carefully considered, with objective criteria, which at that time apply or are being constructed, whether the situation is indeed such. It is not easy to say: we have one point, one someone has had something difficult and so we are now going to file the motion. I think we should be very careful about this, because in the end we are talking about a withdrawal agreement, with guarantees that are qualified as sufficient by the whole of the European Union. Then it is not possible for the Dutch Parliament to call: well, European Union, just drop in, about, because we do not think it is enough at all, we are going to table a motion immediately. I believe that, as a partner of the European Union, we should not do our job. But it is quite clear, and I have said this: if it turns out that it is not good, then there will be an entry into force decision. That was my answer to Mr Kox. In the second term I got the impression that as soon as that motion is adopted in the Lower House, which is also carried out by the Cabinet, by the undersigned, when I am at this post. However, I said in the first term that it is necessary to consider whether the situation is indeed such that it justifies the entry into force of that bill. I maintain that wording and not just like that: the motion has been adopted, so... No, it's like it justifies it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u235	Apart from the fact that I assume that the House of Representatives will not table motions in a majority, based on one specific case, otherwise those motions will not be adopted at all, and apart from the fact that the House of Representatives, given its composition, will never say anything that can be summarized as "Europe, drop in," the adoption of the law and the entry into force of the law does not change what has been agreed at European level. It is not the case that when the House of Representatives asks you to bring the law into force and you do so, anything changes about European regulations or agreements. Surely that can't be an argument to say that you won't let that law enter into force? That has to be on the second point of the exception, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u236	That's your question right away, probably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u237	That depends on what the situation is. If it is said that there are not enough guarantees, but all these guarantees are contained in the withdrawal agreement that I mentioned in the first term and that Mr Van der Burg knows if it is satisfied but it is said that there are not enough guarantees, then I have that situation. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u238	Then the question is what is the state secretary's situation? Once again, the entry into force of this law does not change the guarantees that you have just mentioned and which are also contained in the Treaty. The only thing that happens is that a number of Dutch people are given the opportunity to retain Dutch nationality if they accept the British. That's just an exception as we know more than one in the law, isn't it, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u239	This was your third. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u240	No. The withdrawal agreement was concluded precisely with the good cooperation of the Dutch cabinet. That's worked hard on it. There are criteria for the situation in England for Union citizens. There's one thing it doesn't say: freedom of movement. That is not the case, because the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union. That is indeed a consequence and that is a hard consequence; I agree with Mr van der Burg. But if these agreements are sufficiently guaranteed for the rest, if we in the Netherlands were to say that we think it is very bad, it would be something to go to the Court in Luxembourg anyway. That could take a long time. I agree with Mr Sjoerdsma that this could take up to two years. That is always very annoying, but that is the case at all with justice; that is also the case in the Netherlands. So let's not be under any illusions about that. That's the problem. In this respect, I think we should be careful not to work ourselves in an exceptional position in the European Union and rather to say that it is not enough, when we all see that these conditions are met, but perhaps not entirely according to the idea of some people in the United Kingdom. We must be careful not to go down the wrong path with that discrepancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u241	The Secretary of State said earlier, outside but also here today, that if the law is passed, I will countersign. I do not want to say'moves', because you are simply standing still, just like me. Suppose the House of Representatives keeps weighing whether or not it comes with a motion to activate it for a long time. What do you do? So what's the deadline? That law has been passed. The House of Representatives assumes that you will sign. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u242	I understand Mr Van Rooijen's questions, but they are all like-dan questions: if it is going to take a long time for you to think about it. Who's to say that's to be thought of for a long time? The only thing I'm trying to tell you here is this. One. I also said it in the House of Representatives: if both Chambers of the States-General adopt this initiative-law proposal, that initiative-law proposal will receive my countersign. The question now is when should the law come into force? Then I say: a withdrawal agreement has been concluded. There are good guarantees in this, which the Netherlands has also complied with, which your Chamber has been informed about and has not protested either. If so, that's the route we're on. Suppose at some point the House of Representatives says: we have very clear signals that it is not doing at all well with those guarantees. Because that is what Mr Van Rooijen is talking about, isn't it? I'll look him in the eye and hope he nods. Yeah, that's what it's about. And let's say there's a motion on it. Well, then, of course, it's soon to be looked at. Because it cannot be that in a situation where there are insufficient guarantees or guarantees that are violated because the English are not doing well or the British are not doing well... Then, of course, there will be a quick response. Mr Van Rooijen can be assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u243	Mr Van Rooijen has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u244	Still a little bit. Does the Secretary of State make his own assessment, regardless of what the House of Representatives will or will not do at any time? If you say that you will grant contradiction if the law is accepted in both chambers, then that is at most a matter of time. I have the feeling now that you are going to say: especially if the House of Representatives still hesitates to give me a push, in the positive sense, I am not doing anything; if it does not, I may remain of the opinion that it is sufficient. You say, "But it's all well arranged, isn't it? How many cases must there be, either individually or in groups, to bring me to the conclusion that I now have to give contrasign, apart from the House of Representatives?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u245	We come from one as-dan situation in another. Here's what I said. One. I'm giving countersign. Two. If it turns out that the guarantees are not sufficient because they are not working properly, then the time has come to decide that the law will enter into force. If the cabinet hesitates for too long, or perhaps even before, it may be that the House of Representatives comes with a motion to invite the cabinet to do so; no, not to invite, but to call, even to ask to do so. It will then be examined quickly and it will be decided quickly, because a motion from the House of Representatives will be carried out in principle. It's very extraordinary to put it next to you. It is therefore carried out, unless there are other circumstances. But I have to say that I can't say blindly that that happens automatically either. This is true for a lot of motions, but some motions are not carried out automatically either. So it is simply a proper care, because it is very likely, extremely likely, that it will be adopted. But I have said that it must be made clear that the guarantees contained in the withdrawal agreement are indeed being violated. That's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u246	Mr. Van Rooijen, one short last question, which does not lead to the same answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u247	Well, you don't know that yet, Mr. Chairman. You don't even know what I'm gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u248	That's why I'm making that call.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u249	What I am asking you now is not a question of a dance, so you shouldn't explain it as such, because then I shouldn't ask him. I heard you say, apart from the House of Representatives, that you are going to think about when there is reason to give the contradiction. You're going to think about it on your own, because you said I'm going to sign at some point. My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u250	Mr. Van Rooijen, I'm gonna get involved now, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u251	I'll give the countersign if that law is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u252	...the Secretary of State has repeatedly said that she gives the countersign. So your assumption is not correct and this is going to lead to the same answer, which we have heard several times now. If you have one last short question, you may ask it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u253	The colleague of the CDA may ask a question for minutes. Cliff-ready, apart from the House of Representatives: how much thought-out time and discretion do you want to take to decide at any time whether or not to countersign? That is, I think, a question that I still haven't gotten an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u254	I have already given that answer to Mr Van Rooijen, to your Chamber, a number of times today: once the law is passed, I will give the contradiction. I can't do it any faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u255	Even I understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u256	So if that law is passed, if your Chamber says yes to the law next week, the pieces come this way and then a countersign is given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u257	No, Mr. Van Rooijen, you have now asked three questions, just like Mr. Doornhof. I will not give you the floor again. I now give the floor to Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u258	The Secretary of State has said and emphasized a few times: this is an agreement, the withdrawal agreement has been made with the EU, isn't that something you have faith in? Well, I can promise you that D66 is very happy to make agreements with the EU, but that we are now in this situation because the British did not want to stay in the EU anymore. So, of course, we have to take a look at that. There is another point that I think the Secretary of State is too easy to ignore. There are 18 countries in the EU that already allow double nationality, so that is not the case. In the agreements made in the exit agreement, they may have been less attentive to their citizens, because that does not play a role for them. Now here's my question. They sometimes say you're not married for life, but you're divorced for life, especially when there are children. I don't want to think of Dutch as children, but as a child of the account. In this fight between the EU and Great Britain, as a group, we really have serious doubts as to whether it is going to be okay, even if there is some kind of co-parental agreement in the withdrawal agreement. My specific question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u259	There's still no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u260	In the second term, I have listed a whole list. I have mentioned five points on which interest groups have carefully drawn up all kinds of tables. I do not hear the Secretary of State comment on that at all. Surely it cannot be that we simply ignore the concerns of Dutch citizens?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u261	The concerns of the Dutch citizens do not simply ignore this cabinet, quite the contrary. We are really working on this, not just on this subject but on several subjects. The concerns of Dutch citizens are also our concerns. They're important. However, the cabinet is convinced that what is contained in the withdrawal agreement provides sufficient guarantees for the points raised, with the exception of one point, and that is indeed freedom of movement. I agree with Mrs Stienen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u262	Last week we had a conversation with some of the Dutch who are in the UK. There were people who were really emotional. They said: "We already notice that landlords or employers no longer take us seriously as potential tenants or employees, because they find our position no longer certain. That is why we have finally said that taking British nationality and keeping Dutch nationality for us is the only real solution in this."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u263	And your question is now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u264	In reply to the Secretary of State so far, I have not yet felt that urgency. It's now. It will not be two years from now if it has been at the European Court of Justice. So I would still like to comment on the matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u265	Then I'll have to go back to what I said about the bill at the beginning. The cabinet believes that the bill creates legal inequality because the Rijkswet op het Nederlanderschap does not allow a dual nationality. An exception would then be made for around 100,000 Dutch in the UK. The cabinet does not agree with that, because of the legal inequality. This point has been mentioned by the Council of State, as has the second point: it is a problem of establishment that is solved with a nationality outcome. That is why we are not in favour of it. The third point is the point I also mentioned to Mrs Stienen. In the cabinet's view, the withdrawal agreement provides sufficient guarantees. So those three factors play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u266	Mrs Stienen, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u267	I did not get an answer to my question about the urgency of 100,000 Dutch people who feel that something should happen now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u268	Secretary of State, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u269	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Stienen owed an answer to Mrs Belhaj's motion on information. The motion asks the government to start information after the adoption of the bill. I have promised Mr Van Rooijen that I will look further at what we can do at the moment. The most obvious thing is, of course, to start information after the legislative proposal comes into force. Otherwise, there is confusion, because firstly, this is still the transitional year and secondly, the withdrawal agreement offers sufficient guarantees as far as the cabinet is concerned. It may be, at least in the opinion of the Cabinet, that the decision on entry into force is not necessary. As soon as that is discussed, we will certainly provide more information on it. But, as I have said, I have promised Mr Van Rooijen that we will see what more we can do at the moment than what is already there. That's the commitment I can make. I also promised Mr Van Rooijen that we would take particular account of vulnerable groups, such as the elderly and so on. I have already made that commitment to Mr Van Rooijen in the first term. A further question has been asked about the presentation of an entry into force KB. That question has actually already been answered by Mr Sjoerdsma. It is not for me to judge it, because it is not in the law. That's a point I can't really say anything meaningful about. Mr Van Hattem asked how strong the proof of residence in the United Kingdom must be. He further asked whether the Dutch community would be withdrawn in the event of fraud. Evidence must be convincing. A few vague copies aren't enough, because it's being looked at in conjunction. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship is possible if it has been obtained fraudulently. But that has to be established, of course. The withdrawal of Dutch citizenship after fraud can take place for up to 12 years after the acquisition of Dutch citizenship. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u270	If anything is changed in the secondary legislature, how do you feel about it, because in the United Kingdom it may be possible to do so outside the parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u271	It is a good thing that Mr Van Rooijen mentioned this, because that question had indeed remained. In England, the primary legislature and secondary legislature, but for both types the agreement applies and is binding. But if it were to be true that the secondary legislation is suddenly extremely damaging, then we will come to the question of whether there are sufficient guarantees or not. It could be. But that must be done at the time of a major change in the secondary legislation. At the moment, the agreements are binding and the legislation is binding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u272	Finally. For the Acts: when I was just talking about contrasign, I was unclear. The discussion was about the entry into force. I hope the President has solved that misunderstanding with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u273	I am glad that Mr Van Rooijen says that, because he has always talked about the contradiction. I understand now that he meant the entry into force.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u274	It's clear now. It's settled between the three of us. Thank you, Mr Van Rooijen. Has the Secretary of State finished her speech? Then Mrs. Karimi.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u275	I'm done answering in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u276	What the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance does not need is symbolic legislation. This bill is going to be passed, given the majority present in the Chamber, but what does the Dutch who are now in the UK have to do with this bill? I would ask Mr Sjoerdsma to respond to what the Secretary of State said in her second term. In my opinion, the entry into force of the bill remains very vague. During the transition period, the law will not enter into force, if I listen carefully to the Secretary of State; so not until the end of the year. If the transition period is extended, then the law does not yet enter into force. What does the law mean for Dutch people who are now faced with problems, such as those raised by Mrs Stienen a number of times?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u277	Thank you, Mrs Karimi. I think the question is clear. Whether or not one of the proposers wishes to speak is up to the proposers, because their term has in principle been completed. They have indicated that they are not willing or able to bring in any more. If they change their minds, they can, because we are still in the second term on the part of the proposers and the government. But that is up to the proposers themselves. I'll give the floor to the Secretary of State first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u278	I understand that Mrs Karimi's question is addressed to the initiators. I have said several times that at present nothing changes the position of EU citizens and therefore neither does the position of Dutch people in the United Kingdom. Conversely, there is no change in the legal status of UK citizens in the Netherlands and the EU. If the transition period is extended, although it doesn't look like it, but you never know, the situation will remain as it is today. That's the only answer I can give.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u279	I'll see if there's any more interruptions for the Secretary of State, or else it'll be such a chair dance. That is not the case. Thank you, Secretary of State. Does one of the proposers wish to speak, having heard what has been said? Mr Sjoerdsma, in response to Mrs Karimi's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u280	Mr. Chairman. I do not have much to add on behalf of the initiators to what has already been said. The initiators have been very clear in their appreciation of where we are now. It is clear that there is a difference of opinion with the Secretary of State on how she appreciates the situation. The Secretary of State has been very clear about how she will deal with the motion from the Lower House, if that difference in appreciation persists. Let me put it this way. That should be enough, and I think it's enough. I think the Royal Decree is also a clear signal about whether and when this law will enter into force. That will not happen until the contradiction has been set and the royal decision has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u281	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-eerstekamer-10.u282	I have come to deal with the proposal for an initiative. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest we vote on the bill next Tuesday. That brings us to the end of the agenda. I would like to thank the initiators and the Secretary of State in particular for their presence and their input in this debate. I'll close the meeting and wish you all at home.
