ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the Law amending the residence principle, number 35219. About five speakers have signed up for this legal process. I would like to begin by welcoming the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sports in our midst. Of course, we also welcome Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery and the people who follow the debate in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u2	I propose that we start with the first speaker who has signed up for this debate. That's Mrs Westerveld. Mrs Westerveld speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. I'd like to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Care for people with mental problems is in the news this week. I saw on Insta that yesterday the minister had a conversation with Charlotte Bouwman, a young woman, who is now in the ministry and who said: "If I am on a waiting list, I will wait here." Young people who have united in Glue de Zorg have put a manifesto online. That has now been signed over 32,000 times. That also shows how many people think it is very important that we give people in mental distress enough help. Because in youth care, it is too often about who pays the bill. Too often, discussions about this lead to delays in the provision of care. Especially for children and young people who need very urgent care, it can be devastating if they have to wait any longer because they are being bullied about who is paying. Ironically, the debate on money is the reason why about 30% of the total youth aid budget is spent on coordination costs. So, every year, around 1 billion goes on coordinating people's concerns rather than providing aid itself. Of course, care and youth care should not be concerned with the question of who pays for care, but with how best to help these children or young people. The current residence principle in the Youth Act contributes, because it is now inefficient and unclear, to the focus on money rather than to a focus on the child and the younger. GroenLinks therefore welcomes the Minister's understanding of the need to amend the law on this issue. However, we are wondering whether the proposal before us is really going to ensure that the desired efficiency and ultimately the right aid is taken care of as well as the Minister wants. Professionals themselves say that the proposal as it stands is not feasible. This is reflected, among other things, in news reports from Childcare Netherlands in the National Administration, in which they indicate that there is an incorrect assumption on the basis of the plans. Because the core of the new proposal is that it can be quickly established which municipality is responsible by looking at the Basic Registration Persons, the BRP. In that BRP should then be visible whether someone is staying at a home address or at a care location. This is essential knowledge, because the new proposal no longer pays the municipality where the care location is located, but the municipality where the young person stayed for inclusion in the care location. In those reports from the Netherlands, among others, we read that the check mark, which should distinguish between the home address and the care location, does not exist. In their view, therefore, an automated and fast and efficient establishment of the residence principle, the whole point at which this law has been introduced, is not possible at the present time. I have a number of questions for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u4	I see that there is a question from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u5	Yeah, a short one. The question I put to Mrs Westerveld through the chairman is whether she has actually read the update of that message from the Netherlands Youth Services. They indicate that really meaningful steps are now being taken to resolve this. Couldn't it be that part of what you're saying could be nuanced?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u6	Yeah, I read that update. It is about discussions that have been held, but it remains of course that we have a proposal before us which at present is whether it is as efficient as we are hearing. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about this. It is good that the talks are being held in the Ministry, but at the same time, of course, we are discussing the proposal before us, and we should finally vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u7	That's right, of course, but this is a bit of a lure. Look, of course we're talking about the proposal that's here. Just, you're talking about a response from Childcare Netherlands and not about the proposal here. And then I say: that reaction is now a bit nuanced. That is why I made that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u8	Clear, thank you very much. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u9	The questions I ask the Minister are as follows. Is the Minister aware of this? Of course he is, because he's having those conversations. But how is it possible that this has been overlooked? What is the Minister going to do to resolve this in the short term? Can he give us an update on that? What does the Minister think about the residence register, which was also the subject of these talks? Is that a possible solution? What time is the Minister's view going to be able to reach a solution? If this could not be achieved before the law enters into force on 1 January 2021, can the Minister guarantee that providers will not suffer administratively, for example by introducing transitional arrangements between municipalities until this problem is resolved? And, of course, can the Minister keep the Chamber informed, including in the coming year? Mr. Chairman. In addition to rapid help, permanent help is vital for a child who needs care. Last week 113 Suicide Prevention came up with a study showing that insufficient continuity in care is one of the causes of developing suicidal behaviour. The week before, the foundation Het Vergeten Kind came up with the petition "Stop changing aid workers." I've asked questions about the number of times children have to move. The Minister's reaction showed that we do not really know very well how often children change aid workers, how often they change foster parents or go to another institution. And that is a very important point, because it is very difficult for a child in child care to lose the helpers who trust it over and over again. We know that it is difficult to move in people's lives in general; that causes a lot of stress. How stressful is it for a child who already needs help and care to change familiar faces so often? This leads to mistrust towards aid workers and adults in general, and this leads to problems of attachment. With regard to GroenLinks, stable treatment without interruption should be a basic right. Mr. Chairman. We have the impression that the new law does not offer any more certainty in this respect either, because the law speaks of a one-year transitional right for young people who are changing the responsible municipality. The document states that these young people are entitled to youth aid under the same conditions and at the same rates for the period for which youth aid has been granted, up to a maximum of one year. Afterwards, the municipality responsible can make a new assessment of the youth aid rates and the conditions. This means, therefore, new uncertainty for young people in a longer range of care. They then wonder whether the new municipality will accept their treatment or whether they will have to go back to another place with new treatment. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with GroenLinks that interrupting the continuity of care for young people is detrimental to the success of the treatment. And if so, why does the Minister only set the transitional right in one year? In the written response, the Minister gave the following reply earlier. I quote: 'Most provision for youth aid lasts a year or less; the transitional period therefore corresponds to the duration for which youth aid is granted or granted in most cases'. But of course it sucks if you don't belong to those "most fallen." Does the Minister agree with us? Shouldn't the right to continuity in treatment apply simply to every young person? The Minister will make an exception for foster care. The right to continue is maintained there. Young people may also stay with the same foster parent if the responsible municipality changes. Why is such a distinction made here? Can the Minister comment on this later in his reply? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether the new law might give a nice new incentive to keep better track of how often young people have to move. I told you before, we don't know that. I think it's good to know how often a child changes care providers or places. Is there any way to register that better from now on? Mr. Chairman. I have just talked about the importance of rapid help and also of continuous help. No less important is, of course, appropriate help. And we are also concerned about this, also in the light of this new law. Because isn't it a risk that this new bill will allow municipalities to opt for lighter and therefore cheaper forms of youth care? In the previous answers, the Minister stated that he was not afraid that municipalities would not put the importance of young people first in choosing the necessary care. But is this always the case, as I would like to ask the Minister, because rather it has been shown that there are indeed municipalities that rather opt for cheap aid. That is also not surprising when you consider that a lot of municipalities have significant deficits in the social domain; then you just look at how expensive the help they can provide. Can the Minister guarantee that the introduction of this law will not cause this to happen more often? I also ask this question because we can see that there are already huge differences in the help that municipalities offer. For example, one municipality offers support to the whole family, and other municipalities do not. Some municipalities think about extra costs, such as travel costs incurred when a young person is in an institution that is far from home, for example, and other municipalities say in advance: we are not going to reimburse them. The same applies to a resource; some municipalities do reimburse them, while others do not. And I can understand why the system was designed like this, but customization is something other than inequality. Customisation means taking into account the younger, the family; that someone who knows the younger or the family can assess what is best in his or her situation. But we can see that in some places there is also real inequality, because municipalities have already made other agreements in advance. And I think we're seeing too much of that right now. Take a help dog, for example. By now we know that this works for a lot of people who have mental problems. I hear that from young people myself, but I also know a number of scientific studies that indicate that; young people are given a motivation to live again, for example because in this case they have a dog to take care of. Some municipalities recognise that, so other municipalities do not compensate for this. I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with us that it is desirable to establish a more basic basis and, of course, to keep room for tailor-made work within that base; so it does not depend on where someone lives, what help and care or care equipment that person can get. And is the Minister also willing to ensure that scientific knowledge about what works better ends up in more municipalities in the right place? Mr President, I am about to close. I have a few short questions. For example, we often talk about the bottlenecks that exist when a young person turns 18. GroenLinks hopes that this bill will ensure that young people are more likely to benefit from extended youth care if they so wish. Is there any way to do that in this bill? Does the Minister think that's gonna happen? And does the Minister also see the opportunity to reduce the cost of coordination with the introduction of this bill? One of the aims of this bill is, among other things, to reduce the administrative burden. The Minister also states that he thinks that the financial pressure is also falling. I would like to ask him to go into this more explicitly in his answers, so how much and what burdens are now reduced according to the Minister? Mr President, I will conclude. As has been said, we are certainly positive about a number of elements in this bill. We are pleased that this is being considered, that the law is being amended. But the introduction must be very careful. I am very curious to hear the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you very much for your input. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer, who speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During last November's budget debate on youth care, I looked at the stories of young people who are stuck in the system, who are on waiting lists and are not being helped, who have to move from one institution to another. I will not, of course, repeat all these stories here, but I will remind them, because we must ensure that youth aid works for these young people. Mr. Chairman. Unclearances about who is responsible for offering certain help, or who has to pay, are high costs for your municipality because a youth institution happens to be within your municipal boundaries; for many aldermen youth support are not unknown images. It slows down. That brings in trouble, and makes sure that there are young people who don't get the right help in time. According to the Youth Act, municipalities are responsible for providing youth assistance. The Youth Act also lays down which municipality has to pay for this aid. This goes through the principle of residence, but in practice it does not always work very well at the moment. It sometimes also hinders the rapid delivery of youth assistance, also due to unnecessary implementation costs and procedures in the case of payments. The young person with the question of help is the victim of this. At the same time, we can see that many municipalities are disappointed in the budget. Social services are partly responsible for this. In my opinion, this contributes to the fact that some municipalities sometimes try to transfer the cost of expensive cases of care to other municipalities. This also does not contribute to the timely provision of good help to young people. This bill leads the residence of the youth at the time of the request for assistance to which municipality is responsible for the payment. That's obvious. It's less trouble about who has to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u12	Before you continue, there is a question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u13	Mr Wörsdörfer is now making a touching speech about how serious it is with the deficits in youth care, but I can tell the VVD that this is a deficit that she herself has caused, by throwing a discount, a cut, of EUR 450 million into the municipalities over the fence. You can be very sad about that as a VVD, but you did it yourself. How does the VVD respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u14	The VVD responds as follows: it refers the SP to the report we received yesterday. This confirmed once again that of the amount we spend in the Netherlands on youth care, about 1 billion goes to coordination costs. So there's plenty of money, but it's spent on the wrong things. We want to do something about that, just as the SP wants us to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u15	Now Mr Wörsdörfer is making it worse. Decentralisation has been hasty, forcing more than 350 municipalities to negotiate with hundreds of youth care providers. That creates a huge bureaucracy. And indeed, that causes a third of the budget to be spent on unnecessary administration. But that also comes from your tube! That's also from your tube. That was part of your plans for decentralisation: creating unnecessary bureaucracy and also cutting back. So it is a sum sum: as well as the 400 million cuts, which we are now reaping from, as well as the chaos, the huge bureaucracy that is caused by your decision to impose decentralisation so hastily and so poorly implemented on the municipalities. This now makes 30% 30%! More than EUR 1 billion, to avoid unnecessary bureaucracy. That's from the VVD tube. I'm fine with you being very sad about that right now, but don't pretend this is coming out of the sky. It is exactly as you intended at the time when the Youth Act was introduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u16	These are a lot of comments and a few questions. During the WHO Youth, the debate we had last year, I also said that I think that decentralisation, the operation, could have been accompanied by a few more handles. We could have helped the municipalities and the institutions better. I see Mr Hijink shaking no, but I say how I see it. I see we could have done better. All kinds of measures have then been taken to ensure that this decentralisation... In essence, I believe in this decentralisation. The idea is that a municipality knows much better what care, what help, someone needs, in the neighbourhoods where, in this case, young people live. I fully agree with that. Mr. Hijink can look back at 2015. I'm fine with all of that. The VVD was then in the cabinet that was right with other parties. None of that matters. What matters now is that these young people are being helped. Mr Hijink can make a lot of mistakes here about what it was all about, but I think decentralisation at its core has been a good step. I believe that we must ensure that a number of things get better. I'd like to make some suggestions for that. That's what I did during the WHO Youth. That's what I do here. If Mr Hijink wants to look back with me five years ago, that's fine, but that doesn't do them any good. I think we should look forward and make sure that these young people are helped, because that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u18	We are having a debate this afternoon about the misery that is currently taking place at De Hoenderloo Groep. Mr Wörsdörfer does not want to look back. Of course we have to look back. You have to see where the problems come from now if you also want to know how to solve them. Of course you should look back. I am annoyed by Mr Wörsdörfer's unchalant attitude, which says: well, we could have provided some better handles. Of course! You should not cut half a billion euros when you know that more youth care is needed. When the Youth Act was introduced, SP and numerous organisations warned: "Don't do it this way. Don't be so hasty. Do not do it without it all being properly arranged." Still, you pushed it through. Why? Because the savings of half a billion euros were central. It's only been successful as a budget cut. I am simply disturbed by the nonchalant attitude of the VVD, which says: yes, we should not look back too much. Of course we have to look back, because it was your party that caused this mess. So I expect you to suggest today how we're going to clean up this mess. I also expect you to look back and take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u19	I'm pretty bad when I'm accused of a nonchalant attitude here. That doesn't do me any good. I am very motivated to ensure that youth aid is well organized and that the young people I started and I also started working on in the WHO Youth are helped. I can't do anything with this kind of qualifications. Having said that, I made proposals during last year's budget on how I think it can be done better. That's what I'm gonna do here this afternoon. Mr Hijink knows that. He made his point here. I would then like to explain why this bill can help in the basics, and make some other suggestions to ensure that young people are well helped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you. There is a question from Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u21	We all know, of course, that the problems have been caused by merging the five laws into one law, the Youth Act. The municipalities then had to offer youth care at numerous levels: the district, the municipality, the region, upper regional and rural. Well, that, of course, caused enormous administrative chaos. Suppliers who sometimes work nationwide are confronted with 350 municipalities. That is at the heart of the Youth Act. That is at the heart of the problem. That is what a billion euros is all about. What does the VVD see as a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u22	I noticed this problem during the budget debate. I said something about that at the time. I think it is a good thing in itself that the municipalities are responsible. I also see that institutions now have to do business with a lot of municipalities. I think that time is spent on all kinds of administrative burdens. One municipality wants to be accountable in a different way than the other. That's not good. That is what the aid workers who work at such an institution suffer from. I said during the debate: it should not matter whether you are helping a young person in Loon on Sand or in Waalwijk. You should be able to reconnect that to the relevant municipality in the same way. I also called on the Minister: is it not necessary to ensure that the administrative obligations are set up in one way, so that you do so in the same way, whether you are dealing with the municipality of Loon on Zand or the municipality of Waalwijk? I think that can take away a lot of the administrative misery. That's what I said two months ago. It could just happen that it will happen again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u23	Standardizing's one of those killers, huh? We've been hearing it for five years. Nothing has improved as regards the billion that is being wasted on administrative burdens. For five years, we've been hearing "standardizing." Mrs Westerveld set a very good example. One community will pay for a helping dog and the other will not. You get all these differences because they have policy freedom. So my question is to Mr Wörsdörfer: if he gets so excited about the EUR 1 billion, whatever I do, because that is care money that we all pay involuntarily and it is at the heart of the Youth Act that this causes, what does he see as a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u24	I think this question is actually about decentralisation as such. I have just said that I very much believe in that. I believe that municipalities should have a certain freedom to ensure that the people living in their congregation are well helped. I also hear Mrs Agema say that we have been hearing about standardisation for five years. I would say that is also a kind of death doer, but still we have been at it for five years now. We've been on the road for five years. In the first few years there has been little movement in both municipalities and institutions. I have that observation, too. But these big surgeries also take time. Of course, we can talk about who it's all up to, but in the end we all have to make sure that we help the people and that the system gets better. I hope that, after the introductory shots, we can discuss this with each other, because that seems to me to be the most important thing. Mr. Chairman. I would then like to comment on the bill. This bill makes the place of residence of the young person at the time of the request for assistance the municipality responsible for their payment. That is clear because it gives less fuss about who has to pay the bill and also because municipalities are required to pay and inform providers. At the same time, this proposal makes it fairer, because now the municipality with a youth institution within the municipal border bears a proportionate burden and that is going to change. In this way, municipalities are, in principle, encouraged to focus on prevention and to avoid unnecessary costly routes as much as possible. I have four specific questions on the proposal. First of all... What has the Minister learned from the bumps on the road during decentralisation? In other words, how does the Minister avoid transitional problems? I am thinking of unnecessarily shifting young people between institutions so that they have to move or fail to transfer files. Second. Does this amendment also reduce the risk that municipalities will still receive invoices that they have to pay years after that? So we are talking about limitation periods. Third. The Minister would be concerned with better planning of the care landscape. He announced this in the letter of 27 May last year. How exactly does the change in the residence principle contribute to this? Then there is a question that refers to what Mrs Westerveld has already said and which relates to the residence tool. Childcare The Netherlands has pointed out to us that there should be a start-up residence register that should be available on time. To be honest, I did not understand that, because the responsibility to find out who has to pay the bill lies with municipalities. So can the Minister explain what is actually on the role and how he points out that appeal from the Netherlands? Then I come to a few more general remarks, because some of the root causes of the problems in youth aid are less affected by the proposal, even though they do have to do with it. First of all, the young people who are waiting for good care and are on a waiting list. With Mr Westerveld on Monday, I asked where the response remains to the question where young people who are stuck in the system can now go. It must be clear to everyone where you'll end up. Whether you're a younger person, an older person or an aid worker, who's gonna take control when you're stuck and then get on with it? In the manifesto Glue the Care it is called a helpdesk. To be honest, the name doesn't really matter to me, but I support the cry of hearts from the manifesto and I want it to be properly arranged. Then I see municipalities struggling with what is and is not covered by youth aid. It turns out that some municipalities have some difficulty in limiting themselves. I understand that, because you'd like to help, but there are also useful ways of health care providers to sell their products. This means that care money goes to things that should not, or at least much less, be reimbursed as youth aid. The proverbial subsidised hug activities. Maybe useful, but should the government take the fall for that now? In my view, the Minister has a task to do here, namely to set out a clear framework, which he himself stated last year in his letter of 27 May. But where is it? Now garden rooms and spiritual aid are being compensated under the heading of youth aid. The minister wrote that he is waiting for an investigation. But why not announce to the public now that certain activities are not covered by youth aid? Why not point out to parents that there is a difference between parenting that can be difficult, I say with three teenagers who in themselves are not that bad and genuine youth aid? Why not now call that not every deviation from the standard is a problem to be solved with youth aid? In short, what is the Minister going to do to help municipalities frame what they need to compensate under youth aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u25	The point that Mr Wörsdörfer is making now is, of course, about market forces in healthcare, a system that the VVD has been in favour of for a very long time, where it is very easy to start a youth care institution, to declare with what you are offering and for which society can then take the fall, even if that care is not useful at all. That is the system of market forces that the VVD wants. Now Mr Wörsdörfer has worked for and put his name under the manifesto Lijm de Zorg and it says literally: stop that market operation in youth care. Can I therefore assume that the VVD is going to propose today to take out the market forces and the profit incentives and to take out the production? I wonder what proposals the VVD is going to make today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u26	One of the comments indeed fell under the heading of market forces in the care sector. There were a number of things underneath, such as getting perverse incentives out of the system, and that's what I'm in favour of. I think it's too easy and overpaid under youth aid. I think that certain providers have too easy access to parents to offer their services, for example, which should all be reimbursed under the Youth Act. I am not going to make any specific proposals for this in this debate, but I do have them on the list, because I think it should be different. As far as the concept of "market forces in care" is concerned, care is not always a market. But what you do want is to make sure that providers work efficiently. You're gonna need some incentives for that. You do not want institutions but unbridled institutions to be able to grow this afternoon and that money can be spent on matters that do not concern the care of young people. So in that sense, I think you should keep the possibilities to keep the providers sharp. There will be proposals about when you can register as a healthcare provider. I believe that this bill will soon be on the table, and we will be discussing it more specifically. But in that sense, we find each other in part. Only I explain the title differently from Mr Hijink, because for him, of course, market forces are the worst thing in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u27	Finalizing, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u28	The point is that it is true if Mr Wörsdörfer says that money for care does not go to care at the moment. We have just established that one third of the budget is spent on excess bureaucracy. Why is that? Because there isn't a single check on which youth care providers can actually start offering youth care. We have municipalities that deal with many hundreds of providers at the same time. The Minister wants to get rid of that, too. But I am still waiting for the proposals to do so. I am also waiting for the VVD's proposals to actually get that market operation out of the care system. If you're drawing a good manifesto, Glue de Zorg, and in that manifesto it says: we're going to stop, we're going to make less market operation in care in the ggz, which we haven't even talked about yet, it's going to be much stronger, but also in the youth care sector, I can ask you here from the VVD: what are your proposals to get that market operation out of it? I don't want to hear from you, "I've got them in my pocket somewhere." I just want, if you sign one of those manifestos and we have a debate here that you just call them. What are you going to do to get the market out of youth care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr Hijink is only talking about market forces, and I understand that, because that is his job as a member of the SP, but he is setting an example of one third of the youth care budget being spent on coordination costs. Of course, that has nothing to do with market forces. That has to do with the fact that we didn't handle it administratively well. This has to do with the fact that people in health care institutions have lost too much time and time is money to keep track of how many minutes they spend on, for example, providing help, or how many minutes they are on their way to someone. I don't want to know all that; I don't need that administration at all. At the same time, we have just exchanged the view that different municipalities impose different questions, requirements, criteria. I'm not one of them either. Let's pull that tight. Suppose Mr Hijink says: "That is market forces in care. We need to combat this; we need to reduce it." I couldn't agree more. In fact, I have just said that, and I said that in the debate in which he was present two months ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u30	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u31	Mr. Chairman. My last point in this period is about cooperation. That cooperation often doesn't go well. Cooperation between municipalities and institutions and between them. There's a huge distrust, culminating in several lawsuits. The Minister seeks the solution in partly reversing decentralisation by wanting more specialised care to purchase regionally or above regionally. A more detailed outline of these plans will be presented in March. Of course, we are going to talk about this in detail, but of course we need to invest in these relations now. What has the Minister done after his letter of 27 May, which I mentioned a few times, to invest in this cooperation between municipalities and institutions, so that they can simply do together what they have to do, namely help the young people? And what action did he perhaps take after making the point in the debate 18 November last year in the budget? As far as I am concerned, the red line is also, apart from the bill, which I can support with the few questions I asked: what is the Minister doing now to solve the problems that exist for those young people we all do it for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Hijink speaking on behalf of the SP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I said earlier, we are coming later today to talk about the major problems in the youth care sector and, in particular, the Hoenderloo Group. The temptation is, of course, very great to start naming all these problems, about the huge deficits in the municipality, about bureaucracy and the coordination costs in youth care, which are one third of the budget. Or about the bald blow that threatens and is already taking place in part when it comes to special care for young people. As early as November, the SP proposed to examine whether funding for specialised youth care and youth protection could not be much better regulated nationally. That proposal was then rejected by a narrow majority. I can hope and assume that the minister and the parties in the Chamber who were against it at the time have been awakened. After this debate we are going to talk about the closure of the youth care institution De Hoenderloo Group. That's where 200 places disappear. Young people are in uncertainty and experienced youth care workers are losing their jobs. All this happens at a time when we have a huge shortage of places in the specialist youth care. Mr. Chairman. We are now discussing a legislative amendment that we would no longer need if we were to move towards more national direction on the organisation and financing of specialist youth care. I would like to hear from the Minister whether he is prepared to investigate whether that direction would not be much wiser, because you would no longer need this kind of abundant bureaucracy and measures such as today's law. But it's not that far. That is why we must now discuss this law. We believe it is important to implement this law. This law regulates an important adaptation of the Youth Act. Now there is often a discussion about which municipality is responsible for paying for the care. This law will, if it's right, bring more clarity. The SP's gonna be okay with that. We also welcome the change in the residence principle in youth care, because youth care providers often find it difficult, especially in complex situations, to determine which municipality is now responsible for financing care for a specific young person. This leads to a lot of chopping, between healthcare providers and municipality and between municipalities. Specialist youth care is often a very expensive form of care, so nobody is waiting for that account, but it has to be paid. The last thing you want is that care is at stake because municipalities are ping-ponging about who's going to pay the bill of care. We do not think it can be explained that such a game of ping-pong is carried out over the back of children and young people who need care. It just needs to be handled properly. It is therefore only logical that it should be considered which municipality is responsible for the payment of the child care that the child actually needs. However, the SP has a number of concerns about the proposal that is now before us. In our view, for example, the Council of State rightly states that the bill reduces, but does not completely eliminate, the financial risks for youth care providers. If a young person has been referred directly to a provider, the provider may still face invoices that cannot be charged or not yet charged. The Council of State also states that further measures are possible to prevent financial risks from being laid down by youth care providers. Especially when there is a disagreement between municipalities about who has to pay the bill of care, it is important that this is not at the expense of continuity of care. I'd like to ask the Minister to comment on this. Does this change of law, in his view, offer sufficient measures to prevent this from happening? Just a few more questions, Mr. Chairman. As a result of this legislative amendment, municipalities may start paying for forms of youth care that they have no idea about at all, with healthcare providers that they have no contract with at all. The Minister states that in these cases only one contract should be drawn up for these specific young people. Is that not going to create additional bureaucracy? Do providers not have to deal with even more municipalities and accountability machines with which they have to conclude contracts? Should they then renegotiate tariffs with these municipalities? How does the municipality guarantee the quality of care in another municipality? What are the agreements on supervision in the event of abuses or fraud? How is this handled? What happens to the responsibility for financing care if the parents of a child move or break up during the period when a child stays in an institution in another municipality? That is a complicated issue: what happens if they break up when the child is staying in another municipality? Which municipality will pay for the care at that time: the municipality where the whole family lived earlier, the municipality where the mother moves, the municipality where the father moves, or the municipality where the younger person resides at that time? It seems hypothetical, but I think it is important that we have that clear in advance, especially because it concerns vulnerable families, families in which there are often major problems and where it is not unthinkable that a child should stay in a youth care institution and in the meantime there is a lot of misery in the rest of the family, such as a possible divorce. Then you just don't want to have a hassle and you don't want to shove off with the care bill because you don't know where to go. It has also been asked how long a municipality remains responsible for paying for youth care, even after a younger or the whole family has left for another municipality. I would like to hear some more explanations about that to make sure that is well arranged. Mr. Chairman. Child care providers are concerned that the municipality of origin may have a tendency to provide more short-term and cheaper care, given the budget deficits that municipalities have. I'd like to ask the Minister to respond to that. They also indicate that it may still be necessary for the provision of youth assistance to determine who actually has the authority over the child. Does this not create unnecessary implementation costs in these cases? My question is how much these implementation costs are estimated. How exactly is it dealt with when a municipality indicates that it is not responsible for a young person, when this may be the case? Who then ensures that the municipality actually accepts its responsibility? Can the Minister explain who decides if municipalities do not come to terms with each other? Then where's the final test? Who's gonna decide which city to do it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u34	A question from Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. I listen with some surprise to the series of questions that Mr Hijink is now asking, because the bill is just answering all these questions. All these problems he raises here today are right in the present world, but I think you yourself said in your first sentence that you were so pleased with this bill! So I'm just surprised. How can you say you're happy with the law that solves all these questions and then ask the questions again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u36	Well, Mr. Peters, because the devil is always in the details of this kind of legislation. You can make very good agreements, which are going to work well for 90% of cases, but I want the Minister here today to make clear what happens in the small number of cases where it is not very clear how things are going. I just mentioned the example of this very complicated divorce, in which it is not exactly clear where the father and mother live, where the child exactly resides. It may also be the case, for example, that neither parent enrolls the child anywhere at all. And then what? I would like an answer from the Minister to those questions. Mr Peters is already quite happy. Then I wonder why you're coming at all if you don't like this law anymore. I still have questions, and I think it is my right to ask these questions to this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u37	Sure. In conclusion, Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hijink can ask for anything. It's fine. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u39	Thank you. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u40	Finally, Mr President. I have just heard Mrs Westerveld and Mr Peters in the debate about this in recent days, so I shouldn't really ask about it, but I'm going to do it anyway, because we do have those concerns that a crucial part of this law, which should make this law a success, is not yet properly regulated, namely an adaptation in the Basic Registration Persons. The BRP is the system that municipalities use to determine the exact place of residence of a child and the place of residence of that child's parents. Is it true that the BRP has not yet been completed in such a way that you can determine exactly whether someone lives at a particular address, or whether there is a youth care institution at that address? Because what's the point? If you want to determine whether someone lives or stays somewhere, you have to check the BRP by means of a check mark or by other means, whether the address in question is a youth care institution or a home where someone actually lives. If you cannot establish that and a child goes to stay in a municipality in a youth care institution, then it may be that the municipality will pay for the costs if you do not know that this is a youth care institution. In fact, when it comes to a youth care institution, the system must indicate: ho, here the account must not go; the account must go to the municipality which was the residence of that child prior to that. It sounds complicated, but it is a technical adjustment that is very important to us. The Netherlands has been concerned about this too, and I think it is right, because if it is not in order, we will soon be working on a half-baked law, and I do not think anyone will be happy about it. So I ask the Minister whether it is true that this problem is still going on. I also ask him if he has any idea how it's gonna be solved, when it's gonna be solved, and if that's gonna happen before this law has to go in. If not, how does he see it for himself if it's not in time for each other? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Peters, and he is speaking on behalf of the CDA Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union, who has other obligations today. Mr. Chairman. Members of parliament work for six days. In addition to the three Room Days, there is fortunately enough room for work visits and on Saturdays also for representation. One of the most enlightening work visits for me was a day in the financial department of a ggz institution. The people who work there have an important but extremely difficult job, I think. They have to bunk out all day who lives where, who has the authority over a child or who has a contract with the municipality and so on and so on. Apart from the financial risks, this is enough for these people to be traumatized. It is good that something is being done about this. This law is therefore more than a good step in the right direction. Mr. Chairman. As you may have heard, and otherwise you will hear it now: I started making a series of 30 podcasts on youth care. I'm quoting from one of those podcasts. Someone says, "Inspiring vision and policy, but it's the money that drives." This is often only just and certainly in times of financial tightness. Everyone thinks that children should be given the right care, but sometimes paying or making sure that people are paid is something else. It is of the utmost importance that it is as clear as possible who should pay the bill for which care and that incentives that make it possible to spread those costs are eliminated as much as possible. All this must be done with as little administrative burden as possible and with as little financial risk as possible for institutions. Mr. Chairman. The current situation is difficult for everyone. Mr Hijink has just explained this in detail. Who has authority over a child? Where does the authoritative live? What about when the kid moves? Who pays the account of an institution with which the current municipality has no contract after moving? What about perverse stimuli? What about referring some municipalities to care institutions outside the region and so on and so on? There are answers to this question in the legislative proposal before us. It's definitely an improvement. First of all... The municipality where the child is registered pays the bill. Second. In case of assistance with stay, the municipality where the child was last registered pays. Third. If a child moves, the new municipality will pay. Fourth. If the new municipality does not have a contract with the current healthcare provider, the new municipality must ensure continuity for a year. Fifth. In case of doubt, the municipality pays and, after examination, may pay with another municipality and then warns the institution. Mr. Chairman. That sounds in my ears clip-and-ready, crystal clear and just right, but the CDA does have some questions and I'm going to ask them now. First of all... If a change in the situation of a child occurs not through the municipality but through the general practitioner, who will ensure that the correct information about responsibility and invoicing is put in the right place? Is the general practitioner obliged to inform the municipality or even make the referral via a district team? Does the general practitioner, where a child is registered, check and forward that information to the institution concerned? In such a case, how can an institution be prevented from having an irrecoverable invoice? Second. Municipalities that have invented that they are not responsible for a particular invoice because a child is not registered in that municipality, of course do not pay that invoice. But then there is a healthcare provider with an unpaid invoice and the order to find out who does have to pay. Is the Minister prepared to ensure that municipalities have to find out between themselves? Is there perhaps a need for an extension of research, payment and information requirements? This obligation has already been incorporated into the law and is partly a solution, but enlargement may be necessary. Third. Are there any implementation problems to be expected because, for example, municipal systems do not work or do not work properly, as mentioned and sometimes feared? We've already heard about it. How does the Minister see that? In the BRP, it should be easy to see whether the child is registered at a home location at a healthcare institution. It turns out, as has already been said, that it is not always the case. Would that mean that municipalities with a large institution still have an administrative problem or, otherwise, that institutions have no idea which municipality they should send an invoice to? I hear and read that important steps are being taken to solve this problem. However, in view of the questions that have been asked here before, it would be helpful if the Minister were to say a few words about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Agema speaking on behalf of the PVV Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. This legislative proposal makes the residence principle easier to apply, reduces implementation costs and reduces the waiting time for young people to receive help. The new residence principle is more in line with the objectives of the Youth Act. At the moment, the municipality of the person exercising the authority over the younger person is responsible for the youth aid and that municipality has to pay the bill as well. The caregiver must then first determine who has the authority and where that person lives. This is complicated and it takes a lot of time. Once the authority has been established, this results in practice in some cases in strangling. Municipalities prefer not to pay the bill. They don't always agree on who actually has authority over the younger. In the case of co-parenting, for example, parents who both exercise authority may reside in different municipalities. Neither of the municipalities then wants to pay the bill and each other is pointed at. This stinging gel slows down the payment of the health care provider's bill. Healthcare providers are waiting for their money and young people are waiting for help. This bill must solve this problem. The municipality where the younger state is registered in the Basic Registration Persons becomes financially responsible. With the new residence principle, the authority is no longer leading, but the place of residence where the young person is or has been resident. Registration in the Basic Registration Persons will be led. In the case of youth assistance with residence, this is the place where the young person lived before being transferred to the youth care institution, the family home or the foster family. Youth assistance with residence is an expensive form of youth assistance. Municipalities that have many locations for youth assistance with stay in their municipality also bear the financial burden. Many municipalities are therefore not waiting for a new location of a youth care institution or an extension of accommodation in their municipality, as this entails a financial risk for the municipality. This simply means higher spending on youth care. With the new residence principle, the municipality becomes financially responsible where the young person immediately had his residence address within the meaning of the Basic Registration Persons prior to his youth assistance with residence. The locality of origin will then remain responsible until the stay ceases or until the young person is no longer covered by the Youth Act. It is a good bill, if it is not possible to implement some of it technically. This was also reflected in the call by Youth Care Netherlands to postpone the implementation of this law for a year. It is therefore strange that we are already discussing this law when not everything is in place. It cannot be that there is a problem on the one hand, and on the other hand there is suddenly no problem if there has been a conversation at the ministry. This bill turned out to be entirely based on the idea that all the information needed to determine which municipality is responsible for which young, automated, was to be removed from the basic registration. In practice, the last residence of a young person prior to care with stay is not easy at all, let alone automatically retrieve it. Automated establishment of the residence principle is not possible. This will not reduce the administrative burden, the implementation burden. We assumed that this amendment could easily be applied automatically. After all, that was the image we got from the law. How are we supposed to place this, given the reports of the Netherlands Youth Services in recent days? And what exactly was agreed in that meeting at the Ministry? It is an important question whether the Basic Registration Persons can be adapted. When can it all be automated? And can a distinction be made at the moment between addresses, i.e. between an address of a care institution and an ordinary address? Is there a so-called residence register? And if so, when is that operable and active? We ask the Minister whether he should revise the legislative proposal on this point and what it looks like. Do we get a change to the change? Can the Minister promise that there will be an appropriate solution for an automated system? When can that come into effect? Can he promise that the new residence principle will limit the administrative burden on healthcare providers and care workers and will therefore not increase the implementation burden in this respect? The new residence principle would be easier to apply. Implementation costs would be reduced and young people would have to wait less long for help. Are these principles maintained, since the automatic button does not appear to be applicable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I propose that the sitting be suspended for 20 minutes. This means that we will begin to respond to the Minister at 11.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u46	The next item is the Law amending the residence principle. I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions asked. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u47	Mr President, thank you. Whoever studies the bill may at first glance think: what a technical bill; what a technique. But as you can see from your contributions, it is much more than technique. Yes, of course it is a very technical bill, but the impact of this technique on daily implementation practice in youth care is really great. The negative consequences of the choice made at the start of decentralisation, in particular to allow parental authority to lead the determination of the place of residence of children, have also proved to be very significant, inter alia in terms of the distribution of the budget. Think of adverse financial effects for some municipalities where institutions were accidentally located and for institutions that, through all the discussions about who had to pay the bill, were waiting for their invoice to be paid. You sometimes even saw strategic behavior of municipalities, which are not only applauding when an institution with residence, for example a closed youth care institution, is located there. In any case, it has led to an enormous amount of administrative burdens, which we had no shortage of in any case in the field of youth care. That's exactly what we need to get rid of. In short, this change in the law, this change in the principle of residence, is technical in nature, but has a very positive effect on all sorts of things that affect youth care, municipalities, professionals, children and families. The new definition of the place of residence is actually becoming quite simple, namely the municipality where a young person lives. Not the municipality where the parents who have the authority live, but the municipality where a youth living according to the Basic Registration Persons, will organize the youth assistance. If a young person no longer lives in his own home but in an institution, the last place of residence where he or she came from is the one who pays the bill. Let us be honest, questions have been asked about a lot of things at the beginning of the legal process, but it happens that not so many questions have been asked about this. Just after the introduction it turned out to be very complicated. What we have done really differently and better now is that we have tested it well in practice. We did pilots at municipalities. For all kinds of family situations, we've described how it's going to work. I recognize that in the way you ask the questions. I just appreciate that. It is good to be excited not only by laws about what the law promises, but also by questions like "what will the impact be?" And "what will be the strategic behavior that this will assume?" Very good by exercising. Maybe we should do that a lot more often. Of course, children do not all come from a family of a father and a mother, and a son and a daughter, and an Opel Astra and a labrador, in Margrietstraat 13. That is certainly not the case in the social services sector. There are also some more exotic family situations that are conceivable. We have ourselves added about 44 situations to questions like "how is it going to work?" And "is it clear?" A lot of questions have been asked about that. I'm going to answer that as best I can. As you know, I attach very much to cubes, but it was not so easy to divide this into cubes. It's all about how it's gonna work. I understand, so I have a block of "how's it gonna work?" And a cube of "varia" to keep that tradition in honor at least. Let me start with the question about the check mark. This question has been raised by a number of political groups. I also have a hunch where that question came from. This comes from the Netherlands. I think there's really a misunderstanding there that I'd like to talk to you about. There's just a Basic Registration Persons. That's not all with ticks and stuff. No, there's just a Basic Registration Persons. In those Basic Registration Persons, everyone just has an address, a home address, a home address. So that also means that you only appear once in it. It is the most accurate system or register we know in the Netherlands as regards residence. For example, it is much more accurate than the official register. So that's the best basis to work with. For some time now, the Netherlands has been required to have direct access to these Basic Registration Persons. You have been able to read in the note on the basis of the report why we did not choose to do so. There's a privacy side to that. The Personal Data Authority would never have liked it either, but it has a double side in the assignment you provide or actually in the basis for accessing that data. The obligation to provide information, the obligation to investigate and, ultimately, the obligation to pay are on the municipality's side. There is therefore no need for providers to be able to handle the Basic Registration Persons themselves. Yeah, but sometimes a place of residence matches a place of residence, doesn't it? That's what happens. The institution we will probably talk about this afternoon, The Hoenderloo Group, has a number of locations. The stay is there in Hoenderloo and Apeldoorn. So yes, that's quite common, but that's actually not very important, because this bill says it's about the address you came from. So it's not like Hoenderloo or Apeldoorn has to pay. It's true that Rotterdam, Amsterdam, The Hague, Utrecht or one of those 180 municipalities, mind you, have to pay where the children came from. It has to pay and it remains the financier. So that doesn't make it necessary to work with ticks. Isn't it true that municipalities also keep track of whether something is a residence address? Yes, the municipality where such a location is located often does. He writes that many times, but that does not in itself matter for the functioning of this bill. Then it was said: then we actually want a kind of digital tool, because the providers of youth care, given the experiences of the past period, are best looking up to discussions about who pays the bill. I understand that very well. Of course, that is not what people want. So it has been said: isn't there some kind of digital possibility of getting the outcome of who has to pay, with some sort of automated calculation rules? Of course, you can never do that to build some kind of shadow BRP. Of course, that shouldn't work like that. At the same time, of course, I am not opposed to any form of digitisation. I'm just not gonna promise that that's easy, and I'm not gonna promise that it's gonna be done soon. I have a little too much experience with government and ICT to promise that kind of thing. But what is necessary is that a provider does not discuss who pays the invoice. That is why this legislative proposal provides for an information requirement. The municipality of whichever municipality that is, but you will always have a municipality that you suspect may have come from there. It simply has to respond within a reasonable period of time, no later than two weeks, towards the institution that asks that question. That's one. Two. The municipality also has an obligation to investigate: if it is not it itself, then who is it? That's the duty of investigation. The municipality also has a payment obligation. You have to pay the bill if another municipality apparently has to accept that it was actually a child of hers. I would think that would have taken care of the provider. But I also understand that the implementation will certainly raise a lot of questions in the coming period. That is why we are going to make a whole implementation plan with the institutions themselves. A part of the implementation plan can also be such a digital tool. Again, I am not against that. However, it is not a strict condition to be able to implement this law. There are also a few hesitations to think of if that should be a kind of shadow-BRP. That's the kind of digital tool I like. Let's try to develop that. The signals also indicate that this can be done. Well, let's try that. Three. More importantly, I believe that we want to set up a helpdesk to ensure that institutions do not have to shop themselves and do not have to go into dispute with municipalities themselves. Especially in the transfer phase, that is very important. We want to organise a helpdesk to arrange the scaling up in a good way. Because this was unclear at Youth Care Netherlands, we also confirmed yesterday that this is the line, that we also have to follow this line, that we are going to work together in the implementation and that we are going to do it this way. In addition, many other agreements had already been made on the creation of hand-outs, the adaptation of message traffic and the arrangement of how to deal with uncontracted providers. I've been asked, what if you're having that discussion? I can't foresee that. I don't think once the law is in place and runs for a while, you're really not gonna have that discussion in new cases. But I can imagine that there could be discussion during the transitional period, precisely because there are so many exotic family situations to think of. Well, then there's the thing. First there is the information, research and payment obligation on the side of the municipality. Secondly, there is the helpdesk that I have just indicated and which we are going to set up as part of the implementation plan with more appointments. If there really is a dispute, it can be submitted to the Disputes Committee. There is simply a dispute committee that then makes a ruling in such a dispute. He is already very often concerned with the principle of residence. Anyway, now there's also a lot of reason for fraternity. This committee will, of course, also deal with the principle of residence; it will then ultimately have the referee role. So that referee role is already organized. Moreover, since the payment obligation will apply, I expect that a discussion or a dispute will eventually arise between municipalities rather than between institutions and municipalities. Mr President, on this point raised by several political groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u48	That raises a question for Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u49	I have a question about the BRP, the basic registration of municipalities. We have also often had a debate about this, because a municipality only found out after an inspection visit that was carried out at a certain location in the context of the Youth Act. I find it pretty bizarre that this kind of thing happens, but okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u50	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u51	The Minister thinks that's weird, too. It's weird, too, but it happens. In some cases, therefore, a child with a stay in youth care is placed in another municipality. If that municipality doesn't even know that youth care is provided in that place, how can that municipality know who is responsible for financing that youth care? If the municipality thinks it's an ordinary place of residence and a child is registered at that place of residence, then the municipality thinks "obviously I have to pay the care there," whereas the bill actually has to go to another municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u52	If I listen carefully, I hear a number of different situations or rather modalities than situations. I share Mr Hijink's surprise in the negative. Part of this issue is that we do not really know how many youth aid providers we have. That's one. Two is that these youth aid providers are not all in the picture of the inspection, which is supposed to monitor this. That's two. Three is a different type of surprise, because it would be unnecessary to say that even municipalities themselves do not always have an insight into who the relationships they have contracted are. Moreover, there can of course also be uncontracted care. That has a bit to do with the way the lead went. I suspect that we are going to solve the first issue of youth aid providers next week, next Wednesday, because then we are going to discuss the Wtza with each other. We've been talking about that for a long time. It is not the solution to all the issues we have in the care, certainly not, but it is certainly a solution to this, at least after the letter of amendment, by ensuring that the youth aid providers are all in the picture and are all in the picture of the inspection. So that's one part of the case. A second part is: how do you send municipalities on your contracts? I think that this afternoon we will have a moment to consider the phenomenon of uncontracted care, but certainly also the phenomenon of open-house procurement. That is an important reason for a lot of fuss we have now. Municipalities have sometimes contracted hundreds of suppliers who all comply with a limited set of requirements in order not to have to tender for a complex award system. I'm not excited about that either, but the alternative to open house leads to a lot of risks, when you're only half aware of what providers you're dealing with. A municipality with a clear number of providers and who does good contract management will be hard to surprise about having a new location. So some things. Yeah, all youth aid providers need to come in. That's one. That's what we're gonna do. Two is a better contract management, where municipalities just know who they have contracted. Just knowing where youth care is taking place helps a lot, too. Three, and that's the relationship with this bill, is that it's about where kids came from. So a stay is always about where children come from. This is always clearly recorded in the BRP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u53	I am, of course, just trying to be sure because the Minister himself said that municipalities always write it themselves when a youth care facility is located at a particular address. Now we know that in practice this is not always the case, that there are also municipalities that accidentally find out that there is a youth care location somewhere. That's kind of weird, but it happens. So I just want to make sure that it is not going to happen that we will... I have just mentioned all these hypothetical cases. We are not going to discuss them entirely, but that has to be done very carefully. What you don't want is for a municipality to move the bill to another municipality because they are not even aware of the fact that there is a youth care location in their own municipality in a certain place. If the Minister says that this measure has solved this, and especially if we know that this overview is going to be there, then we have all these youth care institutions in mind. But I think it is a little tricky that we are therefore dependent on another law for the success of this law, which still needs to be introduced. And that's a little surprise, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u54	Well, of course, we've had quite a lot of youth aid debates. I am going to try, also encouraged by the President, to resist the temptation to give too detailed an answer to the most evaluative questions, also because we have done so many times already and we will probably see how this can be done this afternoon. But it takes a lot, on several fronts I find, to put order, rest and regularity in that system of youth care. And one of the surprises that I share with Mr Hijink is that we don't even know exactly how many youth aid institutions there really are: we don't actually have all those youth aid institutions in the scope of the inspection, which is supposed to carry out risk-based monitoring. We have seen a huge, but really unhealthy, huge increase in the number of youth aid providers in recent times, and part of the background to this is indeed that procurement law that you have just had a lively debate about with Mr Wörsdörfer. In short, yes, we need the Wtza; yes, we need a change to the procurement obligations in the Youth Act and the Wmo; yes, we need a change to the directives. We need all those things, too. This is without prejudice to the fact that in all respects this law simply works better and leads to less strategic behavior than the current design of the residence principle. And the situation you mention doesn't seem very complicated, I think out loud, because if it's a place to stay, then the bill has to go to the municipality where the child last lived and was registered. Even if it is a formal residence site where even the child's address is transferred, and even if it is a residence site that does not even have a contract with the municipality where that residence is located, the registration in the municipality where the child came from is leading to the question of who will pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you. A question from Mr Wörsdörfer, perhaps on the same point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u56	It seems appropriate to me to do so at the same point, Mr President. Because, of course, I had asked about the transitional problems. The minister just indicated: we are going to draw up an implementation plan with the municipalities. That must of course work in practice, so I can assume that this will also be tested in practice before it is done. My question is this. The minister only mentioned the municipality, but can I assume that he also involves the young people, the parents and the institutions, so that they too know and can give their input on the implementation plan, so that this will not lead to unexpected risks for them either?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that's a very good point. I think that the implementation plan itself is mainly for the municipalities and the providers, also from the experience with how much has been done. But I would also like to have parents' and children's glasses looked at, and I would also like to see for myself, whether it helps and whether there is a discussion that also affects them, although of course you must always want to prevent them, except for positive things, from noticing anything of this law at all. But also with those glasses I would like to look at the implementation plan, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you. You're continuing your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u59	You did ask a question about this implementation. That is what the CDA has done, but I actually think I have mentioned most of the questions. The CDA and GroenLinks have asked for this: now that Youth Care Netherlands is bringing this in, do you have to be excited about delay? No. To be honest, I also wonder how enthusiastic the Netherlands will be about this, or at least the members of the Netherlands Youth Services, because they have been wanting this change for years. I understand that too, because this is a solution to a great deal of sadness in recent times on the part of the institutions. So I understand the concerns about the precision of implementation. We're just gonna relate to a good implementation plan. We'll get you a help desk. But postponing this law would really be irresponsible. The whole new distribution model starting from January 2021 is also based on this. Because now part of the distribution model, about 17%, is subsequently distributed on the basis of the number of custody children and the number of 18-plus children. The municipalities are therefore only compensated afterwards, and not always entirely, for the costs they have had to bear. That comes out, but that means that some 600, 700 million will be distributed through the standing distribution model. So that doesn't quite fit. The evaluation of the keys in that distribution model is thus used at the same time to make the distribution model work on the whole of the state contribution towards municipalities. So you can't just postpone it for a while. Everything's connected to everything. In addition, it is a solution to incredibly many problems. Let's take up the questions and concerns about implementation as implementation questions, but let's just make this choice now. We've been preparing it for two and a half years, maybe even longer. It is therefore a good implementation. Then the other how-questions, because those how-questions are also about continuity. GroenLinks asked a question about this. I get that one, too. In fact, the concern about continuity has been an important reason for this bill. In the current situation, the relationship of authority is leading. If a new municipality is responsible for the payment of the care process each time, this can lead to continuity. It is precisely for the sake of continuity that we need to organise peace in funding. We have not done enough in the current situation. We're gonna do that. I therefore very much agree that the lack of continuity is interrupting the quality of care, the quality of the youth assistance pathway and the chances of success of such a youth assistance pathway. We shouldn't have that. The new residence principle is a very strong improvement. The right of transition is linked to continuity. You asked a question about that too. Maybe I can answer that right away. Mrs Westerveld says that I chose the transitional right for one year as a whole, and at the foster home until the end of the foster home stay. In doing so, we have actually joined the transitional provision in the implementation of the Youth Care Act. It was the same way back then. It was chosen at that time because most of the children will indeed complete their journey within a year. If it took more than a year, if you spent more than a year at the institution but still had to finish your journey, another municipality would pay for it, but the treatment could be completed. So I'm not so worried about that continuity. There are some other implementation questions, such as: how do you deal with uncontracted providers? But they all play less in the continuity of care. That continuity is very much served by this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u60	Before you continue, there is a question from Mrs Westerveld. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u61	This is still about the previous point, about the registration in the BRP. The Minister said that this was a bit of a misunderstanding. Because of what he said, it seemed as if we did not understand it very well, but if I take the execution test that the minister himself sent to the Chamber, I see it as saying: "To determine the (financial) responsible municipality of youth assistance in the context of youth assistance with residence it is important that registration in BRP is earmarked for accommodation and registration takes place carefully." So that's what's in the execution test. But then what we are saying is that this law is not being implemented carefully if that check, which is necessary for care, does not exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u62	It's a little complicated to have discussion this way, because there's no such thing as a tick. That just doesn't exist. What is likely to have become a "vinkje" is that municipalities at the Basic Registration Persons themselves add that it is, for example, a residence location. That's fine. The registration in the Basic Registration Persons must of course be correct, but what matters is that the account, when it comes to residence, must be paid by the municipality that has given a child to that residence. That is always the municipality of origin, where the child was last registered in the Basic Registration Persons, as an alternative to being the leader of the authority. Why is that particularly important in these institutions? Because the relationship of authority changes very often and the authority can also be terminated with the custody children in these institutions. Authority is therefore a rather uncertain factor, especially with this target group. So it's about choosing the most certain factor. There are plenty of family situations. This may well be the subject of further discussion, but the most certain factor here is the Basic Registration Persons. Where is a child registered before it goes to that residence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u63	Maybe we should stay away from the term "finch." I read the sentence: "(...) important that the registration in BRP is earmarked because of staying in an accommodation". Then the question is: can we or can we not, according to the bill before us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u64	Now you're pulling a page out of a probably bigger story. I assume, because of the execution test et cetera. I don't literally have this text ready. Of course, in the last few days, when I saw the changing messages about it, I double-checked: guys, what's the deal, we're pretty sure that the invoice ends up in the right place when we do it the way we do it? The basis of this bill is of course the simplicity of the registration prior to the stay. That's the base. This makes the stable financing relationship for all forms of residence so easy, and also for institutions and municipalities so predictable. There will undoubtedly still be dispute, but incredibly much less than in the current situation. Is it important that stays are recorded separately in the basic registration? There is actually only one type of entry in the basic registration: where a child lives, whether that is his home address or an address where he stays for youth care and lives temporarily. You always have only one entry in the Basic Registration Persons, at least one entry at the time of referral. That municipality shall be deemed to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u65	That raises a question for Mr Hijink. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u66	Because, in my opinion, it is at the heart of the matter: can you expect a child care provider to make his own search for where the bill should go? Suppose that a child through the municipality of The Hague or the municipality of The Hague does not go through the municipality through a decision of the judge or through a general practitioner into an institution in another municipality. How does that institution find out where the child came from? That is, of course, the crux of this debate. If you don't have that clear and don't know if that child is from The Hague or Rotterdam, then it is true that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u67	You can hear that. You know how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u68	You can hear that sometimes, but not always. I think you actually want the institution, at the moment a child gets into care, to know immediately what the BRP says is the place of registration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yeah, exactly, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u70	That is very clear and that is very useful. Then you know where to send the invoice. That could be a discussion. At the moment when a child goes somewhere, whether through the judge, or through a general practitioner or through another municipality, you want to know: this is the place, the municipality, where the child comes from. The point, I think, is that this is quite a risk. It may still be the case that the healthcare provider should eventually look: is it the municipality of Rotterdam or is it the municipality of The Hague? Eventually, it'll be resolved, but it's still hassle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u71	It is at least so much less hassle than it is now, that the balance sheet is extremely positive in terms of administrative burden. That's one. Two is that I fully agree with you. In fact, you answer Mrs Westerveld's question, which is that all that matters is where a child comes from. Then your question goes on: how can you know? In many cases you will know that as an institution, because a child is referred to by a municipality or a municipal district team, so you may have a dark brown suspicion that it was also registered there. That is not always the case and is therefore not certain, but you can have a dark brown suspicion of that. If I were an institution, I'd start asking questions there. Hence the obligation to provide information, the obligation to investigate and the obligation to pay. So that's where I'd start banging on the door. So if you had a child referred to by, for example, a district team or a general practitioner from Rotterdam, I think I would be the first to bang the door of the city hall in Rotterdam with the question: is it true that that person is registered with you? The municipality then has to respond within a few weeks with either "yes" or "no, but we have investigated it because there is also an obligation to investigate and he is from The Hague." If there is a dispute, the municipality of Rotterdam, because you were the first to bang on the door, is also responsible for paying the bill until she has settled with The Hague that the bill has to be paid there. So I'd think that's actually what you've done most of the most important thing. I understand Mr Hijink's concern for the short term, particularly in the transfer of children who are now in a place of residence. I think it will be sufficiently reflected in the structural situation. It is a bit similar to institutions where an account has to be paid by a health insurance company. You need to know which health care provider you're supposed to be with. That sometimes leads to a few bells, but I think that we have quite tight and easy to handle here. In the transfer situation, I think you'll get the hardest questions. In the meantime, over 400,000 children have child care. It's actually about about 15,000 children where probably the paying municipality needs to be changed. I am thinking, for example, of the children with a custody title at De Hoenderloo Groep. You have to get it in the right place in the transfer situation. I'm sure you'll get used to it. That is why we have not only created that implementation plan, but also want to prepare a helpdesk to take care of institutions as well as municipalities in answering this question. As we have had a pilot in recent times with a number of municipalities, and as we have worked out all these exotic family combinations, authority relations, residential relations, etc. to see how the residence principle works, it will take some getting used to in the beginning, but that is why we support it with hand-outs, a helpdesk et cetera. So I understand the concern, but I think we have a good answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u72	I also agree with the Minister that the law is an improvement on the way things are going. What matters to me, also in connection with the little debate I had with Mr Peters, is that we should not give the impression that it is completely waterproof and that all the problems with this law are out of the world. We often have debates with Secretary of State Blokhuis about, for example, wandering youngsters. Stand on it. Someone's entering into an acute situation. Then it is sometimes very complicated for a youth support provider to check with which municipality someone is registered. Someone may have had Amsterdam as the last location, but that does not mean that Amsterdam has also been the real place of residence. I do not think that this law is going to solve that problem. I do want to make the point that we should not pretend that the law is a solution to everything. We'll always have complicated situations. That is why I do not understand the question from the youth care sector or on the basis of someone's name or bsn-number................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I think that's some kind of automation they want, not themselves, but through a municipality. So I think we can get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u73	I agree with that, also from the sobriety that it is not a solution for everything. It's not gonna be. It is now a source of a great deal of red tape and I hope to remove most of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u74	In reply to Mr Hijink's question, the Minister says: I agree. But will steps be taken to make it automated? Because that's what providers are asking for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u75	I just explained that. We're going to make an implementation plan. If a system is meant to allow access to the BRP: I am not going to do that. We shouldn't do that. When it comes to an automated tool to determine who the account may be: I have been taken on my own for that, if that is not an unjustified breach of the Basic Registration Persons. I'm gonna say that's what we're gonna work on. As I understand it now, it must be possible to get that done in time. But I'm always a little careful with that kind of promise, because government and ICT doesn't turn out to be such a very healthy and happy combination; there are a number of examples of that. I would like to add that I would find it strange to argue for this reason to postpone something that you have wanted for years and which is going to result in a lot less red tape for your members to pay the bill on time, much more clarity, much more continuity, much less strategic behaviour on the part of municipalities. Of course, we have had extensive contact with Childcare Netherlands and it also changes a bit who you get on the phone, but I know that a lot of Members have been waiting for this legislative change for years. So we should not delay in any way; we should do so as well and as clearly as possible. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u76	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u77	Is it possible to keep better track of the number of times children have to move? That was a question from Mrs Westerveld. I find that interesting. This also fits in with the plea of foundation Het Vergeten Kind about the number of times children are transferred. In any case, this bill helps to reduce strategic behaviour, which may lead to the transfer of children. I have to explain this, because "strategic behaviour" always sounds so unfriendly. I do not want to suggest that municipalities are all just making youth care decisions with euro marks in their eyes. That's just not true. If they did, they wouldn't spend as much money as they have and not so many children would now receive extended youth care which applies to 18-plus-Off compared to the previous situation. In short, I do not want to use the term'strategic behaviour' in this way, but I would like to explain to Mrs Westerveld what is happening in a number of situations. The first thing we hear is that institutions that say they can possibly create places at a location and ask if that would be a good idea, at least not encouraged to do so, knowing that the bill for those places of children placed under custody or 18-plus, then goes to the municipality where that location is located. I get that. That's actually an incentive you don't want, because that type of complex places we sometimes need. That's one thing. We also know that too fast a transfer to another institution is sometimes encouraged. Suppose a child comes to live in a location in Heerhugowaard, where the municipality of Heerhugowaard is then responsible for the account. Then it wouldn't be a bad idea if that child would stay there even more, that would be a good idea, but the municipality of Heerhugowaard now has an interest in that child being placed in a different location in another municipality, because then she doesn't have to pay the bill, which can go up to a few tons. In short, I would like us to remove that type of incentive. Another incentive that is not there at the moment is to invest very much in those kind of places close by, because it could save you money, for example. This is also an obstacle to the transformation of closed youth care. In short, I would like to remove incentives and introduce new incentives. That is why I think this is good, not only for the continuity of youth care, but also for the number of times children are transferred. A lack of sufficient places creates more mismatches in the placement and thus more continuity in the placement. Another question is: can you keep track of how often it happens? To be honest, we don't know exactly. We do have some indications, but we don't know exactly. I'm going to study that question because I'm afraid to say the answer is yes. What you do know, of course, is that you can follow much better with the municipality that finances, where a child stays, because it is much clearer and it is also one municipality each time. So you'd better follow that. So indicatively, I think you could say a little more about it. Would it be better to keep track of how many places children have been in? If it doesn't lead to a change in the BRP it may of course be that you're at a place of residence, but that your basic registration doesn't change, I don't think you can trace that very well. But I just need to figure this out technically. I couldn't do that in suspension. It would be very interesting and interesting; I share that with Mrs Westerveld. Many parties have relied on the coordination costs of 30%. That's a number that's not entirely new. I'd like to give you one small nuance. Don't get me wrong, it's not an explanation in the vein of: I actually think it makes sense that it's 30%. But I still want to make one small nuance. It's not all overhead from within the settings. They're not all meeting officials together. It's the sum of non-direct client-related contact time. This can also be about housing, support staff or ICT. So it's not 30% paper, I'm just saying. Maybe we'll talk about that later this afternoon. Of course we do a number of things about that, anyway with the approach disordered care and the scraping sessions. Rita Verdonk has been appointed to operate in every region. Besides, here's what we're gonna do. We have agreed to the Administrative Burden Reduction Act here, on the implementation variants that are made mandatory. You know from me that I am working on a bill for simplified procurement. You know that we are working towards more regionalisation of the commissioning authority. This is going to lead to a lot of administrative burdens. This legislative proposal also leads to a great deal of administrative burdens. Is that an adequate answer? I am prepared to do any next legislative amendment that would also help to reduce the administrative burden. We have a few ideas in mind before that. We shall return to that in the letter of March. It will set out precisely what more we are going to do to simplify the system as a whole. I think that precisely the complexity of everything we have wanted to regulate in our system contributes enormously to the cost of coordination. The less complex youth care is, the more it helps to control coordination costs. The CDA asked the following question. Municipalities have invented that they are not responsible for a particular invoice because a child is not registered in that municipality. They will not pay the invoice. But who will pay the unpaid bill? The bill ensures that municipalities have to find out between themselves which municipality is responsible. It is therefore not just a question of the obligation to provide information to those who bang on the door, but also of the obligation to investigate. So you should not only say "Rotterdam not," but also "The Hague is." If that is not immediately clear, this bill ensures that municipalities then have a payment obligation. You can still have a mistake. All that stuff is still possible. Hence also the helpdesk and hence also the Disputes Committee in the end. But this is the base. In short, there will be a strong research, information and payment obligation. It should provide an exact answer to this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u78	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is true: I have, of course, read it and it is one of the important points of the law. However, in the weighting of that law, the Council of State points out that it is still possible for youth aid providers to face invoices that are not charged if a municipality does not give that information. They say that they are not responsible for it themselves, but do not investigate who is responsible for it. How do you solve that in practice? Are you going to organize that in the implementation? That's how the law says it, I get it, but that doesn't make it true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u79	No, it certainly isn't. This also calls for a new attitude, including from municipalities. But also for municipalities it is much brighter than it was. That register of authorities was sometimes quite a dark forest for municipalities too, if one had to see who had to pay the bill. Especially in a situation where there is no money left, there is a tendency to hope that the answer to the question will be that the other municipality will pay. This makes it so much tighter and clearer who the bill is for, that I expect much less discussion on the part of the municipalities anyway. In any case, we wanted to remove that discussion for the provider, which means that it will be left with an unpaid bill for a time. Hence the obligation to investigate. So there is not only an obligation to provide information, but also an obligation to investigate: "Who then? Which municipality will have to pay?" And there's a payment obligation. That combination must really give the provider the assurance that the account will be paid in any case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr. Peters. No, enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u81	Well, I'm happy with this answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u82	Thank you. Then I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u83	Just a few more questions in this block and then I'm gonna go fluks to varia. I have just said that the referral via the GP does not really work other than the referral via a district team or whatever. The shortest answer to who then has to pay the bill is actually: just the municipality where the child comes from. You don't always have to make a very extensive study out of it. You can also say to parents: does he live with you? "Yes, he lives with us." Well, good. Ready! And if the congregation, after having done her research, finds out that that is not true, because he was still living with the father, who lives in another congregation, then that congregation will surely squeal. In short, we should not make everything a very complicated issue. I think that in most cases, especially in the new cases, it will be quite clear. Most of the research is in the existing cases which need to be re-established with a municipality of origin. But we have a little time for that and we are going to accompany it very carefully. What happens to the responsibility of a municipality when, for example, parents divorce or move and the child resides in another municipality? Remember: "Where does mother live or where did she live before? Where does the child live? Where does the father live?" That is precisely the situation which leads to total confusion in the current system and which is becoming very clear in the new system, because it is simply the place where the child was registered. So the question isn't: does it have an older authority? This may also change during the youth care process: a removal may eventually lead to the disenchantment from parental power and ultimately to the termination of authority. None of that is important in the new situation anymore. In the new situation, only one thing is important: who was the child registered with just before it was placed? How the relationship of father or mother continues afterwards, who will or will not become co-parents and which new fathers or mothers may or may not join the family, etc., is not important at all. Determining is where the child was registered before it was placed. What if the municipality wrongly doesn't want to finance? Who's gonna test that? In the end, that is the Social Affairs Committee. I'm really gonna do everything I can to keep it from getting really busy. We're just gonna make sure we guide implementation in a good way. These were all the questions about how it's actually gonna work. I would like to start with a question from Mr Wörsdörfer: does this bill reduce the risk that municipalities will face invoices many years later? No, this bill doesn't reduce that risk, I think... Well, the risk is, by the way, but it's not a guarantee. If an institution has its own administration rather badly in order or apparently wasn't so much looking for cash... You don't see that very much in institutions, but well, it's a hypothetical situation. If that institution then periodically updates its records, then it may be that an account will be sent very late. But it is logical that this bill is indeed going to lead to a lot less accounts that are going to come years after that. But it can happen. There is currently no limitation period, at least there is a limitation period of five years, which is not shortened by this legislative proposal, so I must say, in all precision. What is the Minister doing to frame the obligation to provide aid for young people? I'm gonna say a few things about that. This spring, in May, we talked about money. However, it is not a question of money alone. We will also have to talk about the extent to which youth aid is being explained. A municipality where 13%, 14%, 15%, 16%, 17% of children receive child care or youth support in any form is also a municipality that does not just have to ask how it will pay the bill later. The municipality must ask itself whether this is actually healthy: can it be that so many children in my municipality need youth help? Some will say that there are a lot of neighbourhoods where many people with multi-problems live. I'm sure it's all right, but I'm not talking about big cities here. I am talking about municipalities that really look nothing like Rotterdam-Zuid and yet have one and a half times as many children in child care. That is also a municipality which has to ask itself whether it is sufficiently selective in access to it. These municipalities should also ask themselves whether it would not have any effect on volume if you entered into contracts with 200, 300, 400 providers who are paid per child. This is just a hypothetical case. Could that be possible? I think the answer to that question is yes. That's what we're gonna talk about this afternoon. We need to have the talk about framing youth aid. That's what I said in May. At that time, a club from the VNG and youth care providers, but especially from the VNG, started working on the question of what that could look like. I told them I wouldn't be against it. The funny thing is that the law now offers a lot of space. As a municipality, you can decide how to organize the access. As a municipality, you can define the youth aid yourself. You make your own contracts with providers. You can do all that as a municipality yourself. Is it really helpful if I tell those municipalities that they can't do that anymore? I honestly do not think so, but I would like to be persuaded by the municipalities that are currently making a proposal in that working group under the direction of Mrs Manshanden. I expect that proposal sometime in the next few months. I expect the VNG's proposal at least this spring. I'll share that with you. I'll also let you know how I deal with it. Does that mean that municipalities are now holding hands because no further framework has yet been established? No, I honestly don't believe that. All the instruments that a municipality would like to have in its hands to frame the numbers in youth aid are already fully available to them. They can be more selective in access. They can build fewer incentives for providers to help as many children as possible. I am not going with Mr Wörsdörfer. Although, all the examples he mentions are not directly on my mind when I think of the most necessary, the most crucial youth aid. I would like to respond to this in the same way as Mrs Westerveld's suggestions. A help dog may be nice in some situations, but it is not necessary to include in the law that everyone is entitled to a help dog. If you look at youth aid in this way, you must also be honest: you are actually opposed to decentralisation of youth aid. You cannot ask for the reversal of decentralisation, because it has never been a central responsibility. If that's what you think, you should centralize youth aid. Then you really have to go to an insured scheme as we know it in the care funded by the Health Insurance Act. I'm not for that, and I didn't think Mrs Westerveld was.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u84	A question from Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u85	Well, more like a comment. I didn't tell everyone to get a helping dog. I have indicated that this can help and that different municipalities deal with this quite differently. I was talking about tools that people get. I have also mentioned support to parents as an example. Municipalities also deal very differently with travel expenses. I do not think that is desirable in all cases. Often it is not desirable because we can expect that there is a certain standard. Conversely, it is also mentioned that things are being compensated that we are wondering whether they should be. Then I think we should think a little bit more about things that certainly need to be compensated. And I also think that there may be a certain basis that is equal for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'll give you a few answers. I think the Youth Act is quite open, and yet it is also a directive. It says: 'youth aid is compulsory'. The municipality has a duty to seriously consider whether someone needs youth assistance. If so, the municipality then has a duty to provide the youth aid needed. I think I agree with you when you say that it is fairly open. It is fairly open, also in the confidence that municipal councils will take advantage of their lectures if that does not go well. I can assure you that will happen. Mrs Westerveld has very critical colleagues on municipal councils. I have had this type of experience with Mr Hijink's colleagues. Fortunately there were not so many, I say with a wink, but they were always very critical. Colleagues of Mr Wörsdörfer can also be very critical. They are usually on other points, but they are also quite critical. In short, don't underestimate city councils. As the Chamber is critical in my direction, so municipal councils are critical of their alderman. They are at least as critical as the Chamber is. So I'm not gonna go ahead and assume that those differences are all unjustified. But I do agree with the statement that the law is now very open. The Health Insurance Act is also very open. But why do you see more standardisation and standardisation there? This is because the profession itself is more standardized than in youth care. There are a number of professional standards. Especially in the ggz they are still used to working like this, but far too little. Many work processes are actually far too little subject to professional standards. I do believe in the invitation to standardize more professionally: we find this quality of youth support in the Netherlands. We have had the debate on closed youth care. In closed youth care, we'll take that route as well. In short, I think that youth care, with all the jobs already on the board, also has a number of steps to take with regard to professional standardisation, or indeed with regard to professional standardisation. In addition, we will simply define with each other: what do we find quality? That should not happen so much from: what do children have a right to and it should be the same in all municipalities. But it should focus on questions like: what is quality and what do we see as quality? I'm sure there's work to be done there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u87	Okay, thank you. Before I give Mr Wörsdörfer the floor to ask a question, I am looking in the direction of the clock and at the same time towards the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yes, knowing that the clock and the minister are always extraordinary...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u89	...be good friends of each other's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u90	Yeah, absolutely. I will reply to Mr Wörsdörfer's interruption and then I will be at the end of my term, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u91	Look. Mr. Wörsdörfer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u92	I'm gonna interrupt more often, because then the minister's done. The Minister gave a rather long answer which I think can be summarized in the words he just said: I would not be against it now. May last year it was announced that we must do something about this youth aid obligation. Municipalities have asked for it. We got a report yesterday. I have not yet studied this in detail, but I have already noticed the following sentences. I quote from the Minister's work. It always makes him happy. "The research that has been done indicates that many new providers, or providers whose turnover has increased relatively more, have an offer that is more characterised as an intermediate form of social work and youth, and education aid." We actually found that in May of last year. We also discussed this in the debate. This leads me to ask the next question, a little bit of the qualification given by Mr Hijink. I also know the Minister as a Rotterdamer, but is he here of 'no words, but deeds', or 'no deeds, but words'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u93	In fact, I have already announced the actions. The actions on this observation I announced in November. At that time, Mr Wörsdörfer's enthusiasm was delayed; I think it is fair to add that. We have seen a number of developments in recent times. I am going to be a little more precise now, and I think we will continue to deepen the debate this afternoon. We have seen a number of developments that are undesirable, for example the development that municipalities did everything to avoid having to follow a European procurement procedure. They were opposed to an award system, and I understand that. Granting a contract in which you define what the providers should be able to do for the next four years when you are actually in a transforming system is incredibly complicated. However, because municipalities were against it, the route of an open-house tender has often been chosen. This open-house procurement has led to an explosion of providers. I'd like to move towards more alliance. But let's be honest, in the current law, in the Youth Act and the Wmo, there is currently a requirement that you arrive at the most economically advantageous registration, the EMVI obligation. It was put in the Chamber for a good reason at the time. They did not want the lowest price tenders and thus the other variant. However, this currently wrongly obliges municipalities to provide for a genuine European tender with a awarded contract in competition. Municipalities are quite rightly opposed to this; I understand that. But the alternative is, of course, many times worse. These open-house tenders have led to an explosion in the number of providers, and that has led to the following. If you are paid per child you bring in, then of course you are going to show behavior not to bring in the most difficult child you probably have the most work to do. Then you probably bring in numbers that are reasonably clear in terms of treatment and you expect to be able to do the treatment within the price. This combined with a not-too-tight contract management of municipalities if you have hundreds of providers, how should you regulate the contract management properly and strictly? It has led to a lot of providers of which you can indeed ask yourself whether they first started the very hardest children or did not search for the hardest children for a very long time and simply started working with children who they knew needed help. For this reason, I have announced that I want the law now requiring the EMVI award to be amended. This will give you a simpler tender procedure. That law comes at the fastest possible pace, really a Rotterdam pace, towards the Chamber and I count on the enthusiasm of Mr Wörsdörfer. Two is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you. Let's be brief. The report was sent to the Chamber yesterday and is therefore still being examined by the Committee. So I want to go to the law that's in place right now. I understand the interest and enthusiasm of both, but may I ask the Minister to conclude his reply to Mr Wörsdörfer? I shall then give Mr Wörsdörfer the opportunity to put a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u95	Then let me put a big accolade around it. All the proposals I made together with Mr Dekker in November are also an answer to the question put by Mr Wörsdörfer. In order to achieve more selective access, you do not need a new definition in the law. At the same time, I have said that if a new definition can help in the law, I am prepared to do so. But I'm not gonna be knee-deep under the desk typing. I asked the congregations, "How did you think?" Soon I will have a proposal on that point. This is without prejudice to the fact that, in fact, all the major issues we are facing today are all covered by an action that needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u96	Mr Wörsdörfer, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u97	In May last year, the Minister wrote that there should be more clarity about the duty of local authorities to help young people: what is part of normal education and growing up and where does the duty of youth aid begin? I am getting a very long answer here on matters which, although they are related to youth care and all have solutions in them. We are going to talk about that and I am very interested in that. I just gave the qualification that I am not getting an answer to my question as to whether the Minister is going to do anything about framing youth aid. I then come up with the quince that it sounds a bit like a reverse Rotterdammer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u98	Since North Sea Jazz is based in Rotterdam, Hagenezen are of course always a bit sour about Rotterdammers, eh; that's also true. And people have been jealous of the harbor for a long time, so I can have that. Let's get back to the question. You ask a relevant question, but I think I have said that there is a much faster answer to that question than a new definition of the obligation to provide youth aid. I am not against a more detailed framework of youth aid duty, but when it comes to tighter control of your access, better contract management so that institutions are not stimulated in terms of volume, things that now contribute to helping children who did not need the most youth support: municipalities can do that now. I have also said that I am certainly prepared to do so, but that is not the most important thing and what must be done very quickly to provide for a sharper definition of youth aid. That's just what municipalities are about in their own regulation, within the law. The law offers room, but the law doesn't make things impossible. You can do the right thing even now under the law. And yes, a little more guidance might help. I am also quite prepared to look at the duty of youth aid for this, but that is not what needs to be done tomorrow. So let's say you mention examples of a type of youth aid in a community of X or Y that you say: "Did you have to? Was that youth aid? Isn't that just some kind of tutoring idea of well-being and not necessarily youth aid?" Then I say: "All right, let your colleague in the city council of that particular place bring that in. Let him speak firmly to his alderman and make sure you don't buy that anymore." That is what the municipalities are all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u99	Thank you. I understand that you are at the end of the answer to the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u100	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u101	I would like to thank the Minister for his first reply. We're moving on to the second term of the Chamber. I am the first to give Mrs Westerveld the opportunity to put forward her second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u102	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. They have clarified this, but a number of things still need to be worked out as far as we are concerned. That will not be a reason for us to vote against the law, because we, like several colleagues here and also parties in the field, see that the law is progressing on a large number of points. I've been talking about quick help in my contribution. Young people who need help must be able to get it quickly. They shouldn't be on a waiting list for very long, and they certainly shouldn't be the victim of the question of who's paying for this now. In any case, this law can make a good contribution to speeding up the settlement of this aid. We talked about appropriate help. We have also talked about permanent help, because if a young person has a treatment, it is important that this treatment is continued. In that context, I shall table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people whose place of residence is altered by the entry into force of this Act are entitled only to a maximum of one year's aid with the same conditions and rates as the previous municipality had agreed to;]] [[noting that this law allows the newly responsible municipality to make a new assessment of youth aid, tariffs and conditions after one year;]] [[Whereas continuity in assistance for children in youth care is essential and an interruption in aid is highly undesirable in this way;]] [[whereas the Minister does make an exception for children in foster care and does not impose a limited period of time on transitional legislation;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the transitional right to the duration of the treatment granted by the previously responsible municipality to all children so that everyone is treated equally by the entry into force of this law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35219-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u103	I have one last question for the Minister. We have talked about the number of young people who often have to change their assistants and who often have to move. The minister said he'd find it interesting to see if we could get a better look at it. I would like him to tell us in the long term whether that is possible and, if so, in what way that is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you very much. I would like to give the floor to Mr Wörsdörfer for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u105	There! The chair is very high. I'm only very small. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I started my speech with the young people who it's all about. I am glad to see that we all have the same interest, despite some skirmishes between us. That's very good. Having said that, this bill for young people is, of course, a good bill that will remove a lot of hassle. I think it should be introduced as soon as possible. The disadvantage with legislative proposals is that it always takes a while. That time that goes over it is also a pity. There are quite a few young people who are in trouble now and there are also quite a few municipalities that want to take some measures now. The debate on the framework of youth aid has been kept a little short. I understand that, too. The Minister actually replies that he is going to come up with a further investigation and that he is prepared to think about it. He announced a number of legislative proposals which would also eliminate all kinds of problems. We will be assessing these legislative proposals on their merits, but that will, of course, take some time. As far as I am concerned, nothing prevents the Minister from saying now: 'As a minister responsible for youth care, I do not think that this, this and this sort of thing is part of the field of youth aid. Dear congregations, you're all about it yourself." That is what the Minister said and, of course, he is right, but as far as I am concerned, that is not included. That's what he wrote down in May. He wrote it down himself: I'm going to look at it and I'm willing to do something with it. Then the answer should not be: I will come up with a number of legislative proposals. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If it helps us to present examples which the Minister can then say he does not think fit, then I am happy to do so. But that is what I would have liked, because then something happens now, apart from legislative proposals, which simply know their course. My final comment concerns the limitation period. The Minister is right to formulate his answer in this way, and I understand that the limitation period is not going to change, which would lead to further copies of invoices in the direction of municipalities. Municipalities do suffer from that. I have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that good steering information is hampered by high invoicings over previous years;]] [[Whereas late invoicing does not contribute to a timely understanding of expenditure on youth aid;]] [[Whereas for municipalities a limitation period of five years does not contribute to greater control over the development of expenditure on youth aid;]] [[Whereas reducing the limitation period between youth assistance and claim and invoicing contributes to minimising the financial risk to municipalities;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the legal limitation period between youth assistance and claim and invoicing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wörsdörfer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35219-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u106	Of course, I should have started by thanking the Minister for all his answers. And North Sea Jazz will come back to The Hague.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u107	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Hijink for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't actually have a lot of extra or new questions about this bill. We will support this bill, because it is an improvement on how it is now regulated. I do have another important question. I have here an overview of the costs incurred in youth care. That is the 3.7 billion spent on youth care. We now know, after an investigation, that almost a third of it is spent on administration and bureaucracy, that costs have nothing to do with caring for young people. I just heard the minister say, "The third one isn't so bad. You should not overestimate this, for the buildings are not included, for example." The point is that the buildings are already included in the care section. The problem is, therefore, that a third, that EUR 1 billion, is not about buildings. That's all about transition, research, policy information, access, direction, administration, overhead, office space, ICT. The 71% of the money that goes to youth care concerns the buildings and the money that is intended for staff, the people who care for young people. This means that the one-third remaining is, of course, only bureaucracy, the vast majority of which, of course, should simply be removed. The Minister basically nuded that. I don't think he should. It is a scandal that 1 billion dollars of ICT, administration and other bullshit is being thrown away. I would ask the Minister to come up with proposals to reduce one third so that we do not throw over 1 billion, but are going to make sure that this money ends up where it belongs: with the young people who need our care very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u109	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As part of the discussion about municipalities spending money on things that may not be necessary, I read this morning in the Home Office a letter of fire from a municipality that indicated: I am empty on youth care, with 7% volume growth per year, and I am now considering not to compensate for homework counselling in the context of youth care. Good idea, I guess. But I have no motion on that. I have had a small and brief debate with the Minister, whom I would like to thank for his answers on the question of whether the municipality is indeed responsible, if in doubt, for getting the invoice to the right place. There has been a commitment to this, but I would like to emphasise this. Maybe this motion will just be taken over, and then it's okay. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the residence principle is amended in the Youth Act with the aim of making it clearer which municipality should pay for which care;]] [[considers that, in the event of a lack of clarity between municipalities, it should not be up to the institution to determine which municipality ultimately has to pay, partly because this leads to unnecessary bureaucracy;]] [[Considering that the Council of State indicates that youth aid providers may still face invoices that cannot (yet) be paid if a municipality does not provide information to the youth aid provider indicating that it is responsible or is in consultation with another municipality on responsibility;]] [[calls on the government, together with the VNG, to examine how it is possible to define the duty of investigation, payment and information of municipalities in such a way that in all cases it is ultimately up to the municipalities to determine among themselves which municipality should pay the bill,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35219-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u111	I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the questions put by the Chamber in the second term, and to give an assessment of three motions. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u112	I'll start with the motion in part No. 8 by GroenLinks. It's about the transitional right. The motion calls on the government to extend the transitional right for all children to the duration of the treatment granted by the previously responsible municipality, so that everyone is treated equally by the entry into force of this law. Everyone must, of course, be treated equally. But the municipality does not always grant a length of treatment, so that would be very complicated in terms of implementation. And it is often also a handler himself who estimates how long a treatment is needed. If you would then put that grant entirely on the side of the handler and would be willing for years to extend that treatment, then you are not always engaged in the best interests of the child. And that's the complicated part. So you should not install an unhealthy incentive for a longer stay than necessary. Also not until a shorter stay than necessary; that is the other side of the story. But it's possible. So you can stay with the same trader, with the same provider, if you need to, but I wouldn't think that it would be healthy to give the institutions an incentive to stay longer than is strictly necessary. So I am going to promise you that I will follow very precisely that transitional right and the way in which that transitional right is implemented, but I do think it is important that children should really be at the forefront. And I know that Mrs Westerveld is in that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u113	And with that, the verdict on this motion...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u114	Dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u115	Of course, the importance of children is paramount, and that is what we have intended with this motion. What matters to us is that we all know that a lot of young people who are dealing with youth aid are very often switching treatment, or often looking, and that it should not be possible for this law to happen that they will have to look again in a new municipality themselves. That's what we're talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u116	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u117	... and of course not for an incentive to make the treatment as long as possible. So let me take a very close look at this wording, because I also understand what the Minister is saying. But let me say this, so that at least the purpose of our motion is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u118	Sure, but I share that goal. So I am going to promise you that I want to take this very well into the implementation plan. Because you shouldn't want an administrative change that actually makes life a lot easier, leading to anything at all affecting the treatment of children, except positive. But there should never be a wrong reduction or anything; that would be really crazy. That must never be the result of this change of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u119	And with that, this motion is in part no. 8 in its present form, but Mrs Westerveld has already made it clear that she is looking at the motion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u120	In view of these relocations, I would like to come back, so whether we could better organise a view on the movement of children between youth care institutions. Then the VVD. For a moment I thought I'd get back a sweet revenge for a nasty memory of the disappearance of North Sea Jazz from The Hague. But you were mild, I must say. First, your question. It's about: couldn't the minister make a standard ruling on what is or isn't child care? I've done that before; I think it was about horse therapy. That is also why I received endless emails about horse therapy and was invited for work visits to horse therapy, so I will never say anything unkind about horse therapy again. But seriously now. My thesis is that the church is on the move and that the municipality has an incredible amount in its toolbox. I think that Mr Wörsdörfer agrees with me. My point is also that municipal councils are more than man to be critical of that. My point is also that municipalities do not yet make sufficient use of the space, which is indeed there, to be much more selective in access and much better in contracting their own providers. In addition, I have said that I am prepared to amend the law. Actually, I'd like to leave it at that for now. You're actually asking me to be standardizing in what isn't youth aid. Mrs Westerveld asks to be normal about what should be at least in every municipality. I don't think those two routes, where the law is concerned, are wise to do. The really big problem is, I think, that because of the way of contracting there have been far too many providers of light forms of care, who have absorbed a large part of the budget, which is then no longer available for the heavier forms of youth care. This is partly the explanation for the experience of youth care providers who say: the Empire spends more than ever before on youth care and municipalities say that they spend even more than they get from the Empire; no idea who they spend it on, but not on us, because we only see that we have been cut short since the start of decentralisation. This is a legitimate observation of youth aid providers of heavier forms of youth aid. The question is then: who does that money go to? I am not only enthusiastic about the research I sent you yesterday, because I think it leaves many questions unanswered. However, you do see this as one of the conclusions of the study, namely that there are many new providers who invest a large part of the budget. My point really is that municipalities are the move. That's what they have the tools for. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the question of the limitation period. Actually, I understand that one. I would also like to take a look at how this is regulated in other health legislation. There are some differences between them. I want to see what the logic of that is. I do think five years is a very long time. This is going to help to get it very much less, but I also do not want to unintentionally weaken the position of providers. This applies in particular to the providers of heavier forms of care. I'd like to move on to the motion to see how we can shorten that limitation period. So I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u121	The motion in part No. 9 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u122	Then the Socialist Party. He had a complicated question. When Mr Hijink is waving his own state, I always get a little nervous, especially when those states come out of my own reports. So I thought, "You know what I'm doing? I'll make sure I have that same state ready." But of course, that's exactly what it says on an iPad I don't have a code for right now. I'm gonna do it out of my head. There are actually two reports that say something about this. One report is from Berenschot and the other one is from KPMG. They say the same thing. The first thing I would like to amend to Mr Hijink's conclusion on my first-term speech is that I did not take it into account. On the contrary, I think 30% of coordination costs are a waste of money. Look, zero can't be. Everyone knows that. Zero can never be, but there are very large differences between This also has a bit to do with the industry we are talking about and what we used to get reimbursed in the rates from the past. Of course, it always has to do with the definition of overhead costs. It is not so easy to get a very strict, unambiguous definition. But both Berenschot and KPMG use definitions that they use in many more studies. They can also be used as a benchmark. I'm going to go back even more precisely to that record, that picture you're making, but you can generally say that you have to charge everything for overhead costs, so also the costs that the client incurs. In this case, that's the municipality. KPMG's estimate is that this is about 5% of that 30%. That's what the investigation says. But it's also about the costs for ICT, housing and personnel that aren't concerned with care, so not with the primary process, for example management. So it's also about housing. I've seen the stairs. I'm getting it now from Mr. Hijink. Thank you. This is pure service, chairman, service of the opposition. It's a little diffuse what's defined in this as housing. One schematic shows equipment costs: youth care accommodations. Sorry, the device costs are: office space, general costs, etc. For customer-related costs care providers then says: youth care accommodations. That deviates slightly from the definition used by KPMG in the investigation that I noted yesterday. Still, they're both getting that 30%. So I guess I'm gonna have to put it next to each other for a second. What I mean to say is that 30% coordination costs are far too much. Even if you only take 5% off... It's 30% of 4.2 billion. Probably a little bit more, because municipalities say they spend even more than what they get from the Empire. Even if you could only win 5%... Even if you could only win 1%, you've still freed up a lot of money for caring for children. So I very much agree. I can list a whole list of what we are doing about it, but I think the President will intervene. But on that point, I wholeheartedly agree. I'm gonna check it out in the precision of the technique. I shall come back to that in the direction of Mr Hijink. But I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u123	Thank you. In any case, we note the promise that the Minister will return to that in writing. However, a short question from Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u124	Yes, because I think it is important that these investigations are co-ordinated, but also that the Minister then indicates how the costs can be reduced with his proposals. I think it is very crucial that we talk very often here about the cost of care, that we are warned from all sides that the cost of care is completely out of control and that we see in youth care that one third of the budget does not deal with the care of young people, not even the buildings in which these young people reside, but with abundant bureaucracy, rules, figures, supervision and everything. It's more than a billion dollars. That's gotta be over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u125	Your point is very clear. The Minister has also indicated that he shares the concern and that he will return to the comparison. I think that brings us to the motion in part No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u126	This is the CDA's motion which calls on the government to examine with the VNG whether it is possible and workable to shape the municipal research, payment and information obligations in such a way that in all cases it is ultimately up to municipalities to find among themselves which municipality should pay the bill. I believe that this is one of the starting points of the implementation plan, so I can leave it to the Chamber to decide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u127	The motion in part No. 10 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u128	That brings me to the end of the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u129	Thank you very much, I say to the Minister, for answering and judging the second-term motions. Before I end the debate, I would like to thank the VWS Minister for his input in this debate. The same applies, of course, to Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. The same applies to the support and support of the Minister. Thank you very much for the interest of the people here in the Chamber and the people who have followed the debate in a different way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-3.u130	I can inform the Chamber that we will be voting on the bill and the motions tabled next Tuesday. I'd like to suspend the meeting for half an hour. This means that we will begin at 13.35 p.m. with the swearing-in of Mrs Van Beuker-Huijbregts of D66. Further work will take place.
