ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the incidental supplementary budget for liquidity aid to Aruba, Curaçao and Sint Maarten, Section 35443. My name is the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations... Or, no, I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I gotta get used to it! I'm glad you're here. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen. For all of you, too, it was a while ago, except for Mr Bosman. Welcome!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Özütok as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. I also forgot to welcome the authorised Minister of Curaçao, Mr Beginninga. He'll be joining the President's Lodge in no time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's really nice to be back here. Mr. Chairman. No one could have suspected six months ago that we were on the threshold of a global pandemic with disastrous consequences, including for the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. We sympathize with all Caribbean Dutch people who are affected by the covid virus, but above all we are concerned about the consequences of corona on the islands. The poignant poverty is hitting hard. Kids barely get to eat. Necessary medical facilities have flown in and entered in all haste. This applies not only to the countries, but also to Bonaire, Saba and Statia. We feel deeply for them. I've been asking questions about water shortages on Statia. How can you apply the RIVM measures around hand washing, if no water comes out of the tap for a long time? We are now seeing even more acutely the major vulnerabilities: the high dependence on income from tourism and oil, and the limited capacity to provide basic necessities. And Sint-Maarten hasn't even fully recovered from Hurricane Irma. Humanitarian needs are high and urgent. That's what I read in the Secretary of State's letter. For GroenLinks, providing humanitarian aid is essential. Corona on the Caribbean is undoubtedly a disaster, but it did not create the current problems. They were there a long time ago. Existing difficulties have been deepened and intensified by corona. Mr. Chairman. Sustainable socio-economic conditions are needed. GroenLinks therefore wants the Secretary of State, in addition to his current commitment, to work quickly together with the countries in the Caribbean Netherlands on the reforms desired by GroenLinks. This means a rapid start to a process leading to a sustainable, resilient and as much self-reliant economy as possible which at least preserves the inhabitants of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom from the current sky-rending poverty. Within the Kingdom, the countries are at each other's side. The present exceptional period and the time ahead will put this principle of the Kingdom to the test. We appreciate that the country of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten is helping with loans. However the terms of the liquidity support are, the question is whether it is real that the countries manage to repay these loans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u4	I have heard Mrs Özütok use the word'sustainable' twice or three times in terms of solutions and objectives. Does Mrs Özütok mean 'economically sustainable' or also 'greenly sustainable'? GroenLinks always stands for the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u5	That's a good question. Of course I mean both. If you look at tourism, there are already plans in the countries to do so ecologically. This requires investment. I would also like to see this development in an economic perspective towards sustainability, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, that's clear and clear. I fear that the recovery on the islands or perhaps ten, perhaps 20 years longer than with a slightly more than that, may I say old-fashioned economic recovery. Should this sustainable recovery all be linked to green conditions, with the blue conditions to be attached to it, is GroenLinks prepared to say: if we do some more old-fashioned tourism and just clean up everyone's mess, then that's green enough to get out of the crisis quickly, so that we in the Netherlands also have our money back faster? So to let go of those green conditions and help the people faster?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u7	As the honourable Member suggests, it is not a contradiction as far as GroenLinks is concerned; let that be clear. We think both hands can go hand in hand. It is, of course, up to the countries themselves to shape that, and I believe that there are plans in this direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u8	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. We understand the Secretary of State's demand that a wage sacrifice should also be made by top incomes. That is what my group supports. But GroenLinks is struggling with an unsophisticated discount on the public sector. We would like an exception for the public service providers in vital functions: care, waste collection, cleaning and cleaning. Not a cheese-shaving method, but a differentiated approach, excluding specific professions from the requirements. The strongest shoulders must bear the burdens. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I must say that there is now an undisputed demand on the table, which also applies to the Chamber. We would have liked to see room for differentiation in the Secretary of State's approach. We didn't see this again. I'll ask the Secretary of State. I assume that everyone is now committed to structural improvements, but we do need to understand how complex the political and administrative relations are here and there. As far as we can assess it here, these relations do not prevent the provision of emergency aid. Does the available budget go directly to NGOs or through countries? Do the NGOs themselves determine the spending of the aid money, and who will give the signal if more help is needed? And what do we do after this first crisis? That question is crucial. Has the Secretary of State already informed how the countries and the Caribbean Netherlands see the future? What positive initiatives does the Secretary of State see for himself to jointly reset the Kingdom's relations? GroenLinks therefore supports the Secretary of State in the first urgent approach, but we also ask him to maintain good and open relations and cooperation under these crisis conditions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u11	Mr. Chairman. When the Statute was signed here in The Hague on 28 December 1954 in the Ridderzaal, that was a conclusion of the decolonisation process. It was a very messy process, though. In addition to the territory of Curaçao and Suriname, the Statute was also intended for the Dutch East Indies. And the Dutch East Indies was a country with 60 million inhabitants, compared to the Netherlands then, in 1948, with 10 million inhabitants. That is why equivalence was an important element of the Statute. In addition, the principle of equivalence was important to clarify the existence of autonomous governance and equivalence within the Kingdom. The question is whether this equivalence was there. The area of Curaçao had 140,000 inhabitants in 1954, and Suriname had 300,000 inhabitants. But the Statute was born, and thus the basis for the future was laid. An important article to emphasise solidarity is Article 36 of the Statute. That is: The Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten provide each other with help and assistance. But even without this article, mutual assistance has been provided. This year we commemorate the 75 years of liberation from the Netherlands and the end of World War II. During World War II, Aruba and Curaçao were of great importance to the Allies and to winning the war. In 1939, the refineries on the two islands provided 43% of the oil needs of the English and French, and 80% of those of the British Royal Air Force. The American invasion of North Africa from '42 to '43 turned 100% and the battle in the Pacific in '44 to '45 for 75% on the fuel from the Antilles. During the flood disaster in 1953, the islands also helped the heavily affected parts of the Netherlands with money and goods. A better sign of solidarity is unimaginable. I thank you again for this. But solidarity is not only important in the event of emergencies or disasters. Solidarity is, or should be, a permanent part of the Kingdom. Since the implementation of the Staff Regulations, the Netherlands has invested more than €10 billion in the islands of the Caribbean part of the Kingdom. We have helped with social and economic development programmes on the islands. On a permanent basis, the Netherlands supports the legal order with judges and prosecutors and with training and training. When the Statute was amended on 10-10-10, the Netherlands took over 1.6 billion in debt and we are still paying it off. After hurricane Irma, the Netherlands donated half a billion dollars for the reconstruction of Sint-Maarten. No one but no one within the Kingdom can blame the Netherlands for a lack of solidarity. At the moment the concerns are great on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. We all see that. Because of the corona crisis, tourism is still and therefore the economy is flat. Unemployment is 30% and youth unemployment may be even higher. There are no income, not with the country, but neither with the inhabitants. The food bank in Curaçao went from distributing 100 packages regularly to 8,000 packages. The Netherlands is also hit hard. Restaurants and cafes have had to close their doors. Strands are closed and the beaches are empty. Here too, tourism is non-existent at the moment. But you don't have to compare setbacks, but you have to come out together. Then one can't lean on the other. Then steps will have to be taken together, steps will have to be taken to restore hope for the future to all those people who now live in poverty and have no jobs and no prospects. If Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin want to get out of the crisis, they will have to take those steps themselves, they will have to reform firmly and intervene hard in the old ways of doing things. The old politics of keeping dads and wet are over. Time for a new generation of politicians and perhaps literally, because of those old politicians there are quite a few just going to jail or standing on the nomination to go to jail. Thanks to the Van Raak/Bosman motion, extra money has come to deal with undermining. That's good results. Gerrit Schotte, former Prime Minister of Curaçao but still political leader of the MFK: in prison. Theo Heyliger, former deputy of Saint Martin and leader of the UP: to prison. George Jamaloodin, former Minister of Finance of Curaçao, sentenced to provoke the murder of Helmin Wiels: in prison. And on Aruba there are also a few ready to go to jail. All I have to do is name Serlimar on Aruba. But there are also economic opportunities for all three countries. Then they'll have to pick it up. I have always said that there is enough money on the islands to provide everyone with a normal salary, but as long as there are people, families who skim the budgets and put them in their pockets, poverty remains on the islands. If friendly politics on the islands gives you a better job than a good education, if you are not helped because you are not dancing to the tune of a few families on the islands, then there will never be economic prosperity. And that while the odds are there. Mr. Chairman. Before we talk about money to the islands, I want to know where the money went. What happened to the money that evaporated under the Scottish government in Curaçao? It's hundreds of millions. That money's in someone's account. Where is the money from the pay transactions in Aruba and the money that ministers get for illegal work permits? I'll repeat the deal with Serlimar again. Where's the money from the casinos? Sports betting firm Pinnacle converts for billions. Where's that money and where's the tax on that money? I bet this money's in a couple of families' accounts. The elite of the countries pocket the money to the detriment of the people who live in poverty. As far as the VVD is concerned, there is an additional condition for lending: full openness of financial affairs, individuals and companies. Let everyone show that the acquired possession........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... If you can't prove that the property was created in a fair manner, the property will be lost to the land. For I am convinced that a lot of money is in a limited number of personal bank accounts, not only in bank accounts in the country, but also in foreign accounts. Is it true that in Saint Martin the members of the State do not pay contributions for their pensions? When do they retire? Is there then a middle-wage scheme or is there still the sizable final wage scheme? Is there still an early retirement among the administrators and statesmen of the Caribbean countries? What about health insurance and the contributions they have to pay for it? Do they still pay their own contribution? Can the Secretary of State indicate whether this income is also covered by the scheme of reduction? Mr. Chairman. It is time for a clean ship on the islands: away with the old politics. Now's the time. The Statute is also old politics. The current situation shows that there is no autonomy among the countries, that the countries do not have an equivalent status within the Staff Regulations. If we all note this, is it not time to transform the Statute into reality? We're muddling with a cafeteria status. A few Caribbean drivers still hold on to the autonomy they have in mind, but there too, tough choices need to be made. What do you still want to be responsible for as the director of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, and for what? The time of the old statute is over. The Statute is a dead letter as far as the VVD is concerned. Mr. Chairman. For the VVD, it is perfectly logical that aid should go to the islands: emergency aid immediately, and Defence is also ready and present. Of course. But support for the budget is different. When money goes down a bottomless pit, it's wasted money. Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin must now reform to make their economy sustainable. Only on the basis of hard agreements on reforms and the timeline to be reached can we talk about a loan, not before. The terms of the VVD are not open to negotiation. The conditions imposed on future loans are binding and non-negotiable. The countries do not have to agree. That's not necessary; that's a choice. But then there won't be any money. Mr. Chairman. I like clarity. I saw a headline in the newspaper today: Take it or leave it. That's crystal clear. It's time for the drivers on the islands to move on. Good thing Aruba did that in the meantime. I didn't think the Curaçao Prime Minister's ruling was appropriate. There is no question of being an errand boy from the Netherlands. I think he's the errand boy of the people of Curaçao. And as the inhabitants are now, the prime minister of Curaçao should run a little faster. Finally, Mr President. It is now, in all countries, time for hard choices, time for new politics, time for a new Statute. The statute is dead, live the statute!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u12	You even have 30 seconds left, Mr. Bosman. Mr Van Dam wants to interrupt. You must press the foot pedal to turn the microphone on; then you will have your hands free.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yeah, that'll take some getting used to. I would like to ask Mr Bosman a question. I have a preliminary remark to make. His story is consistent. I find the remark that all politicians on the islands will soon be detained, rather harsh, but that is not what my question is about. My question is about something else. Mr Bosman begins with the Statute, which needs to be changed. That's a consistent line of the VVD. Does the VVD consider that the amendment of the Staff Regulations should be part of the terms of a loan, perhaps not now, but in a subsequent round of loans? It would be consistent if you were to say that we would only give a further loan if the entire Statute or at least the Van Raak motion had, in a manner of speaking, a start to be made. Is that what you're trying to do? What do you want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u14	No, because I didn't indicate a timeline. I know. I did say in the last debate to the Secretary of State that I do not believe that the Van Raak motion on the coming together of a committee and the reflection on the future of the Statute is supported by the countries. I have made a bet on this with the Secretary of State: that there will be no committee and that they do not intend to discuss it in substance either. I think I have to come back to my words, because under pressure I now hear a lot of statesmen talking about their position within the Kingdom. I think that is essential. I think that is important, because that is where the debate has to take place, and in all collusion, here too. I am not going to impose conditions, but we all have to realise that the Statute, as it now stands, is an obstacle to operating in the future. If we are aware of this, then it is time for a new Statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u15	But I have said before to Mr Bosman that it is often old wine in new bags. I think to myself: the message is clear, but when is the VVD going to shape that message and how? The story is repeated every time. On the islands there are also a lot of well-intentioned people around; I think 99% of the people. They hear this story every time, even in these difficult circumstances. I find it easy to tell that story again, without any consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u16	Let's make a correction. Mr Van Dam referred to my comment on all those old politicians. No, but there's a lot going into prison. Take the Statesmen of Saint Martin. There's a lot going on, but not all of them. I agree with Mr Van Dam that generalisation is never good, but I did not. No, I didn't. I can prove that. Read my lyrics. Take a look back. I also believe that these are the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I repeat that over and over again. However, billions go to the islands, but there is structural poverty. We find that Aqualectra has been emptied, but where did that money go? Mr Van Dam should ask the same question, shouldn't he? Shouldn't he ask Curaçao where that money went? Those are the questions I'm asking. The Statute is a long-term thing and we are not just talking about it, although I sometimes disagree with the Secretary of State because I think we can also make our own choices. But I keep telling my story because I can't come to a final judgment on my own. I can tell you that it has to be now, but that's not gonna happen. I think I've been keeping my story for ten years. I've been asking for backup for ten years. In that context, I am very pleased with Mr Van Dam's comment. I hope he will support me in the discussion on the change of the Staff Regulations. I hope he sees that things have to be different too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u17	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u18	Finally, Mr President. Mr Bosman's name is André Bosman. When you say "A," say "B." I hear the VVD say "A" a lot, but that "B" sticks. That's what my interruption was aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u19	But that's easy. I don't mind saying "B." In fact, we have made a nice proposal for the Commonwealth, but then it stays quiet in the Chamber. Then I do not hear colleagues say anything, nor do I hear them say anything about alternatives. The B has been pronounced for a long time, but it remains deafeningly silent, both in the Netherlands and in Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. Mr Van Dam may blame me all kinds of things, but they are not justified. I already said "B," but I also said "C" and "D." I say all the letters of the alphabet. I have laid down all the solutions, up to and including getting out of the Staff Regulations. But then it gets quiet and then I don't hear an opinion from the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to go to the G's growth path. As a committee, we have asked the Amsterdam Economic Bureau to examine what we are actually asking of the islands, how they are doing in relation to the region and what is realistic about it. We also asked to take the consequences of the corona crisis with us. We see debt quotas rising incredibly, but they also say: going back to the current growth path is not realistic in the coming period. We have read in the report that Mr Bosman shares this, but what is the consequence of this? I am very much in favour of reforms, but pretending that no additional crisis has arisen that will have a major impact, as in the Netherlands, is not good. How does Mr Bosman intend to shape this? We can use very big words, but we must also be realistic in what we can ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u21	Yes. I'm very pleased with that report. It also provides a better insight into the possibilities of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten. There are definitely opportunities, too. That's what I said. There are certainly opportunities for the islands too, and I want to decouple them from what happened under corona, because that economy needs to reform you. That's what I've been saying for ten years. I was very happy that Jandino Asporaat asked if it wasn't time for agriculture. I was really glad someone else asked me to, because that's what I've been saying for ten years. Diversify those economies for once! That is essential, but it is a choice that Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin have to make themselves. I'd be happy to help them with that, but it's time they did. With regard to the corona crisis, which is much stronger and worse, I am heartily prepared to support them. That's what I reported. We can do that through loans. But looking back on the last ten years, I say: it is not a non-binding loan. Things have to happen there, because we have been making agreements on reform for ten years, watching that economy get better. All kinds of promises have been made about staffing in all kinds of administrative equipment, but nothing is being done about it. Then you see that millstone only gets heavier and that they pull it after them, when nothing happens to it. From me, the directors of Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten can now use the Netherlands and say "Oh, listen, we would like to see it different too, but this has to be from the Netherlands, so we're going to halve the summits now." Well, at least you've taken a step. I'm quite willing to take that blame on me, but it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u22	Then we come to a slightly more nuanced story, because I also have a grumpy about things that have gone well or not in the past ten years. Many current directors share that grumpy with us and see these debt quotas rising simultaneously and they see the difficulties they face. They also sometimes see that it is quite difficult to carry out reforms, for example because of the conversation you have to have with the unions. It is, and remains, a rule of law. I would therefore call on Mr Bosman to try to separate one thing from the other. I mean, if you're looking for where the money went, because it's gone in the wrong pockets, then we definitely have to keep doing it. But that is independent of the fact that you also need to be realistic about what growth path you can follow, what reforms are needed and how to support them. That is, I think, the story that we will have to communicate with the people of the various countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u23	Now I'm having second thoughts, because I think I said that. I think that's what I'm saying at the heart of my story. It's about how we improve the lives of the people on Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. I would just like to say that Bonaire, Saba and Saint-Eustatius are not at issue in this debate. But it is important to take care of that properly. We don't have a direct hand in that. That must be done by the drivers on the islands. It's hard for us to say, "Here's your money, take care of it." We've done that in the past few years. The numbers are here. Progress is limited, as it is. Then I also say 'boys, it's tax money from the Netherlands; here too the crisis is'. Even so, I am quite willing to support within the Kingdom, but not without conditions."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u24	Finally, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finally, Mr President. I hear the hesitations about the willingness to reform, but at the same time Aruba has already said that we are going to do so. Then my final question is whether Mr Bosman would also be willing, if they were really going to meet those conditions, to speak instead of a loan about a gift or a gift. After all, we can already see that the debt quotas are huge. Then it is perhaps quite unrealistic to expect that such a loan can be properly repaid. If he is open to that, I ask him through you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u26	That's a nice as-dan question, but I'll come back to my point. There's a lot of money. It is also time for people on the islands to see where the problem is: there is a small group of people who put the money in their own pocket. If we don't take that hard, we can still donate what we want, then it won't get any better. So I'm definitely gonna think about it. It's not like a njet. I think the Secretary of State has indicated the same thing. There are only a number of conditions. They really need to be carried out, and as far as I'm concerned, so do mine. Anyway, I'm going to listen to what the Secretary of State thinks, but I do think it's important that people understand that as long as there are clubs pulling money out of that economy for the personal interest, it's never gonna work out with the economies of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raak on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Theo Heyliger has been sentenced to five years in prison for stabbing millions, millions in his own pocket. Theo Heyliger is a former director, a former minister, and actually the boss of Saint Martin. We also saw how that went. It was a Dutch consultant who, on behalf of a Dutch construction company, took the keys to Theo's car, put big packs of dollars in an envelope, who rolled into a newspaper, who put them back in his car and returned the keys to Theo. And that seems to have happened almost weekly. It gives an idea of what the administration was like on St.Maarten. And Theo has been convicted. Theo's got to go to jail, but he's still in charge. He is still, in fact, the government of Saint Martin with which we must work together. The people of St.Maarten and Curaçao have been hit hard. I think it's good that we're going to spend dozens, maybe hundreds of millions to help our people, our friends in the Kingdom. But I also see that a lot of people, including my supporters, have been affected here in the Netherlands. Those are people who lose their jobs, lose their income, are afraid of what the future will bring and need help. And then I have to explain to those people that we're going to give hundreds of millions to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin. That's what I want to do. That's what I want to do for the Kingdom. I want to stand here for the Kingdom and for solidarity. But you can't do that if that money goes into the wrong pockets. And if we give that money to the government of Saint Martin, it disappears into the wrong pockets. On Curaçao I see a government, at least a Prime Minister, who does want to cooperate with the Netherlands. But I also see that other powers and forces are active behind Rhuggenaath. I call the gammafia, the financial sector, the old families that enrich themselves. Because it is true: on Curaçao and Saint Martin, a small group becomes rich with poverty. They benefit from the poverty of their own people. So I wonder: how can we work with a government of Saint Martin if there are powers and forces behind that that do not want to? I support the Secretary of State in the demands. They make a lot of sense. There is a demand that the rich on the island finally make a contribution. And those rich are really very rich, also according to Dutch concepts. And there's a demand for insight into the finances. Where's the money going? To government nvs and all that stuff. These are totally logical requirements, very normal requirements, and yet on the islands, on St.Maarten, this is seen as an indecent proposal. In Curaçao it is said: you take over the island. All we do is ask, demand, that the money be well spent. I ask the Secretary of State: if Curaçao and Saint Martin say no to the conditions, how can we help the people? How can we help the people around the government? Can we do that? How can we do that? I recently explained in a television broadcast why I think we should make these demands. This is not because we want to be the boss of Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba, but because we really want to help the poor. I promised the viewers I'd put that to the Secretary of State. A viewer asked me: why does the Netherlands want to be the boss so badly? I have said that I will have that question answered by the Secretary of State. How's his sense in that? If money is going to go to the islands, how can we be sure that these very logical conditions are being respected? It is difficult for us to control this and the members of the States are not going to do it. And what role is there for the media? I see that the media are also under pressure. I have here a letter from my network, from the government of Curaçao to the NOS, with comments about Dick Drayer. There are complaints to Dick Drayer's boss about the critical questions he is asking the Curaçao government, and that should be over. And what is the reason why the Curaçao government does not want critical questions to be asked? "In order to prevent us from facing another stream of Lower House questions." And that's the problem, that's the problem. How can we ensure that we can do our job? I find the terms of the Secretary of State very logical. I also think that the Chamber, that we should not all hobby now and say: yes, but it should also do this and it should do that. The Secretary of State has given it a lot of thought. But there is one thing I would like to ask. If there are hundreds of millions of dollars going to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, can the Secretary of State promise that we will at least demand that the free press, the independent journalists on the islands, can simply do their job and continue to ask critical questions? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. Mr Van Dam, on behalf of the CDA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the supplementary budgets of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we are actually talking about a budget that is still partly in the pipeline. Before Aruba we had a letter about it, but I think the Secretary of State is waiting for the governments of Curaçao and Saint Martin to respond to it. I can also speak on behalf of the members of the Christian Union. Let me start by wishing everyone, far away and close, a "bon slide." I would like to express my special thanks to the Minister responsible for the fact that he is here. I think a lot of people are watching the islands, despite the early hours. Maybe they'll watch later. These are special times and circumstances, not only on Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, but also here in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear: today it is primarily a question of whether there is political back-up in the Chamber for the rather firm course that the cabinet is heading towards those countries when it comes to financial support. My group supports that line. I am not going to waste a lot of words on this, but we think that this strict line and tight framework is at the moment the way we should go, partly in view of the financial and economic situation in which the Netherlands itself finds itself, but also in view of the past experience within the Kingdom. We think this is the case, because it is perhaps very good that these countries are setting frameworks from outside. Time is too short and the need is too high to go through that process all the way inside. I have three questions or comments to make. The first one is about emergency aid. Compliments to the cabinet for the fact that emergency aid in the areas of medicine, medical equipment, defence assistance and food packages has been achieved so quickly. My group, and indeed the Christian Union Group, are committed to continuing attention from the Netherlands to the poorest of the poor. I ask the Secretary of State: is this a permanent process? There is now a commitment of 16 million in food packages, but that money is also at some point in time. So what's the next step in that? Is there continued attention to this? We believe that this is an essential part of the solidarity within the Kingdom, especially since we know that 45,000 people depend on this kind of aid. I was really surprised when I read that. That is 15% of the total population in the Caribbean part of our Kingdom. Those are huge numbers, and that is about families that are already dangling at the bottom of society, the poorest. We know about domestic violence, about financial problems. So we think it is very important that we continue to pay attention to this. I would like a response to this and also the question of how NGOs can continue to play a role in this. A second question is about technical assistance. The conditions state that the countries must act before 1 June or 1 July, and I understand that Minister Grapperhaus calls that 1 juno and 1 July, so let's keep that going, and that's very soon. We all know that the implementation capacity of the countries is limited. What other technical assistance does the Minister provide for? Because setting conditions is also facilitating the realisation of conditions. A third point will not surprise anyone: the rule of law. I asked myself the question: should we lend money to a country where prisoners are locked up in a prison defined by friend and enemy as hell, which has been classified as totally undersized in terms of detention conditions for years, something seen from Philipsburg to Strasbourg, in a country where, despite all kinds of promises and fine words, too little has been achieved in this respect? Should we lend money to a country where people seeking asylum are being held in a concrete barracks without adequate provision? In January of this year we were there I looked at colleagues who were there with me and we talked to people who had been there for months, almost a year in prison. That's where it was found on the spot that they had scabies. And those people are still there, to this day. As a committee, we have stated that it is inhumane, but nothing has changed. Do we have to agree to loans to such a country here today? I want a response from the Secretary of State. I fully understand that he says that conditions to be specified should be placed in a direct connection with the financial support to be provided, but I would point out, for example, to a letter from him dated 5 April 2019 to the Chamber, which talks about liquidity support to Saint Martin. One of the conditions mentioned is that the prison is put in order. I don't want to bring the whole store in, but I honestly wouldn't know why the prison at St Martin's doesn't now become part of the terms of this loan. I would also like to refer to the motion that I tabled in the course of the budget debate on the administration of prisons, which has been adopted to a large extent. I'd like to get a reaction to that. I want closure. We have a paragraph in the Statute that calls for solidarity, but we do not need the Statute to find it in the Kingdom. I listened to the NTR last night and I heard even Mr Van Raak talking about the brothers and sisters in the Kingdom. That's good. That family thought is experienced, I think, not only by the CDA, but also by the SP has now included it in the vocabulary. But perhaps Mr. Van Raam means something quite different. Anyway, I think those family ties exist, but that doesn't mean you're not telling each other the truth. Therefore, support for the clear approach of the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think Mr Van Raak has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u32	Yes, this must be a misunderstanding, because I've been defending these brothers and sisters here for 20 years. The idea that the CDA is in solidarity with the people on Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin and the SP is not? Well, I don't think so. I have consistently stood up for ordinary people on the islands since 2003. Every time I stand here. The only ones I address are the crooks, the underworld, the grabbers, the people who misbehave and become rich from the poverty of the ordinary people on the islands. Those are my brothers and sisters, and they always have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u33	That was actually a personal fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u34	I want to respond to it anyway. I totally recognize this. But I was more concerned with using the term "brothers and sisters." I hadn't heard you mention that many times. I often want to talk more in the family sphere and I thought I'd heard that accent in the SP. For the rest, I do not want to detract from what Mr Van Raak is putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u35	Then it's obvious. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u36	That prison on St.Maarten is a stone of offense, and it's been a long time. It is thanks to this Chamber that the Progress Committee still has to report, otherwise it would have been out of sight. We can say and demand a lot of things, but we were there when a director, a minister of justice, just said, "If the problem gets big enough, it will of course be a problem for the Kingdom." What do you do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u37	I am the whole thing with Mr. Van...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u38	Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u39	...Bosman once. Yeah, I thought for a second, "Van Beaten." Next thing you know, you'll confuse them. In fact, this is sometimes quite conceivable in the case of the Kingdom's relations portfolio.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u40	They look awfully alike too, don't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u41	But that is also why I believe that, on the basis of liquidity support, the country is obliged to include finance in the budget in order to put that prison in order. This has been a condition for 2019 and 2020. We had to do it at our own expense. That's one thing. A second thing is that if you ask me, I don't believe in it anymore, you've also seen my motion that Saint Martin, especially at this time, is able to get that prison in order in a decent way. That is why I have tabled a motion to see whether the Netherlands can take over its management. That does not mean that the Netherlands is also funding it. As far as I am concerned, a tax is being taken over from Saint Martin to finance this; I can even imagine that. But the line is in my opinion that it has to come about at the expense of Saint Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u42	Yeah, I totally share that. But what if you're dealing with drivers who just don't want to, who just structuralally don't fill in what we do? Take the last ten years. In all these areas, not only in prison, but also in the changes in the staff of civil servants and the reform of the economy, agreements are made every time that drivers fail to comply with. Isn't it a bit naive to think: well, if we set the conditions here, then that prison will be fine?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u43	Then we can ask that question about all the conditions that are being set. The conditions also mean that if they are not complied with, the loan will have to be repaid or a subsequent part of the loan will not come. That is exactly what I would like to include.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u44	Finally, Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u45	But then the line would be that we're not gonna do anything with that prison and we're not gonna take it over, because then it's just a question of whether the money's gonna come.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u46	No. My proposal would be that, in the case of subsequent loans, I fear that they will simply be made available, even in the area of detention conditions in Saint Martin, conditions are laid down, just as they are now, quite urgently. And that also applies: take it or leave it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. Then I give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr. Chairman. Less than four months ago, I was on top of Christoffelberg. I ran into French, Canadians and Americans. How far away were we from the idea that the whole economy would be flat, that the whole tourism had collapsed, that there would be no more flights and that we would again be hit by an incredible crisis and disaster, and that is actually so soon after Irma. Mr. Chairman. This affects, first and foremost, all those who have already been living in great poverty. Children who haven't had decent food for a week and haven't had good access to care and medicine. High unemployment, rising to 60%. In short, it is almost impossible to imagine what that should be like on those islands and on the people involved. That is what my first question is about. I know that the cabinet has provided 16.5 million in emergency aid for the countries as well as for the BES islands. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether that money can be increased if necessary and whether it can be increased without conditions. I do not think it is acceptable that there are children within our Kingdom who have to go to bed with an empty stomach, because we are now in such a crisis and some other things may still have to be settled administratively. That's my first question. My second question concerns aid and emergency aid. Can it also go directly to employees and companies, which may be falling over now? I am also thinking of things that you may not take for granted now. I hear, for example, that the Daily Herald is threatening to fall. Information, press, is already a scarce asset on the islands. I think that's very essential. It's also a vital sector. I'd like a response from the Minister. The second concerns the loan. This is now subject to fairly strict conditions. It is up to the countries to assess whether this is feasible and realistic for them. Aruba has already said yes. I wonder what's going on with the other countries. I would also like to know from the Secretary of State, looking at debt quotas. If the conditions are met, is the Secretary of State prepared to turn the loans into a gift in the end? The problems are already so great that I do not think it realistic that the loans should be repaid. I'm looking for a way to make it extra attractive to meet the conditions. Mr. Chairman. That brings with it a number of questions. There is now another package for three months. How do we proceed after that? How realistic is it to continue the growth path that existed before corona, after corona? The debt quotas are now above 90%. How stable are the banks? We've already had problems with banks that had a bank run on them. How realistic is it still to maintain its own currency? After all, it's all under pressure now. Mr. Chairman. It is important that there are reforms, but the things we ask of the islands must also be realistic. It must be feasible for the long term, because we are really decades away from getting the countries back on their feet. I like to see myself back on the Christoffelberg, the Pic Paradis or the Hooiberg. Those are the summits we are striving for, but I know that we still have to go down very, very deep, and I hope that we can do so as one Kingdom together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'm always glad to find a partner in Mrs. Chicken to climb those mountains. These are also mountains that we all have to climb right now. What I would like to continue on is the fact that we face enormous challenges and the islands cannot do it alone. The fine report also shows that the tasks are enormous. The plans can be made, but it is always difficult to come to an implementation. I would like to ask Mrs Kuiken how she would be opposed to setting up a committee in which people from outside politics are also actively involved, people who are experts. We have them on the islands, too. People who really want to put their shoulders on it to see how we can take up that growth strategy again, now that it has had such a huge blow. How can we connect people? After all, all islands and the Netherlands suffer from this. How can we implement an active strategy in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u50	Thank you for this question. I believe that we will have to act quickly in the short term, because we are dealing with rapid aid packages. But for the longer term, it could be an interesting thought. I have also made suggestions for rapporteurship. I am therefore very curious to see what exactly you are coming up with, but at least I would like to embrace this suggestion and also give it to the Secretary of State. Mr President, I have to finish. I still have a lot of questions. I'm gonna put it in the interruptions to the Secretary of State's reply, because I don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr De Graaf on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Dam just asked me in between if I wanted to talk about my daughters again, as was the case with the budget last November. In terms of life and well-being, I think it is also a good old tradition because I will include them again next November. I'll tell him. That is a promise. I'll start with a commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's good. You maintain this tradition. Mr Van Dam wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u54	A point of order, very briefly. We just pre-sorted at the procedural meeting for a written examination of the Final Act. Perhaps Mr De Graaf can take that into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Van Dam is very interested, Mr. De Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u56	They're also three beautiful daughters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u57	Yeah, that's why. Are they okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u58	As I said in November, they are the most beautiful in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u59	Look. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u60	Then we'll just go to the islands, Mr. President. I have listened very carefully to Mr Bosman and Mr Van Raak, because in their explanation I hear a lot from what we ourselves as a PVV have often argued in the past and still argue. When we talked about politics, especially on St.Maarten, but also on Curaçao and sometimes even on Aruba, we talked about a "political crook's nest." Those are harsh words that we have often used, but I hear that more and more now in the interpretation of other parties. I'm glad to hear that. I do not mean by that that it is good that it is there, but I am happy that it is more resonant with other parties and that it is being appointed. I see that Mr Bosman wants to interrupt, but I would like to finish my sentence, Mr President, that it is bad behavior that the money goes to those old families Mr Bosman has talked about. That's criminal behavior. Then you can call it a crook's nest. I am pleased to hear that this is more resounding, because it concerns the inhabitants of the islands. That was the end of my line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u61	The VVD never said the islands were crooked nests. Those are real terms of the PVV. I seriously object to this being said in the direction of the VVD. I'll name people who fill their pockets. Those are the people who do that. That didn't give me a generic story about crook's nests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u62	I was talking about those people. So I think we are in total agreement on this. But not about everything, of course, because otherwise we would not be different parties. That money - loans, donations, gifts, or whatever you call them - has indeed disappeared in the wrong pockets in the last few decades. We are therefore pleased that the proposed measures and loans are subject to strict conditions by the Secretary of State and his Ministry. The PVV is therefore also prepared, on the basis of the explanation given by the Secretary of State and his answers to the questions already asked, to really consider supporting these loans. I said "maybe," because the explanations and answers to the questions are important. We're still inside the Kingdom. We have a different solution to this than the VVD. We say that the decolonisation process has been completed, so the UN must once and for all allow us to leave the Kingdom unilaterally. That's a different direction or another solution. We've talked about that a lot. Maybe that's what we're talking about in the budget. That could be another nice debate. We prefer to help our people there, our brothers and sisters, or family, as Mr Van Dam and Mr Van Raak say. Let's put it this way: the money can go better towards the Caribbean Sea than towards the Aegean Sea, because then you'll know for sure that you've lost it. Or it could go to the Ionian Sea, south of Europe. This afternoon there is another corona debate; perhaps it will fit in better with that. Now we're talking about the Antilles. As we have heard several speakers say, it is about the residents. We have seen from the winter itself, also on Bonaire for example, how bad some residents have it on the islands. Then it is good that help goes there, especially in kind. But we do have a question about, for example, the money that we also need to get back. Can the Secretary of State elaborate on the conditions in the sense that we know when the money will be returned? What developments are expected in the islands, such as more self-control, which will improve pay-back capacity? Again, I am not going as far as I have just mentioned, but as far as I am concerned there is more self-control and less green conditions. Blue might still be, but definitely not green. And then about Saint Martin. Even there, not all the money has been spent to rebuild the place for the population after Hurricane Irma. If it turns out that the strict conditions that are imposed will not be enough to get the money back in the end, we as PVV say: freeze the budget that has still not been spent. Last question, Mr President. The BES islands have been mentioned before. Our heart... everyone knows that.....is really going out to Bonaire. Can the Secretary of State outside the countries of the Kingdom also go into Bonaire a little more in detail and how we can better deal with the need there? That was actually the end of my input, but I can see that Mrs. Kuik has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'm kind of looking, 'cause the input's going a little bit all over the place. First, let the islands sink. Now there is more love and you want to help the residents. But in the meantime you also say: freeze the money that is reserved in the context of Hurricane Irma again. But you're just gonna hit the locals, aren't you? That money is intended for reconstruction and for the houses, which are still not all restored. My second question is also: how realistic do you think it is? Have you read the report of the Amsterdam Economic Bureau, which states that we will get the money back? It's a loan, but it's meant for reconstruction. It's not a loan because you're going to get some of it back with interest. Does Mr De Graaf realize that, I would like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u65	I realize everything. I have not read the report down to the fine print, but certainly the main lines, and I have seen that it is indeed very difficult to get it back. I do think that we should have that objective. I've been talking about the deep pockets. At least, Mr Bosman has mentioned this in particular, but I have recalled it and pointed out that the pockets of the families that often receive the money are very deep. In this case, I am talking about Saint Martin and the 550 million. If then it turns out that parts of it are going to end up in the wrong place again and that this money is going to go wrong again, you have to say: short the one budget that is being given but on the other if it is going to end up in the wrong pocket again. Otherwise, you are carrying water to the sea or disappearing it with a different proverb called ""in a bottomless pit." That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u66	No, but that way I can come up with a few proverbs. I don't think I should get involved in that, because that's what I do most of the time. Seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u67	That's me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u68	Money must be well spent. I agree. But here pretending that money eventually comes back very easily and that this has to be a tough condition isn't real, is it? So you either say "I want conditions, but I do support them and I also give the countries the chance to do something with them" or "it has to come back automatically and within a period of two years, as it stands now." Do you really think that's real?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u69	Yeah, or else it's not a loan and we're gonna have to come up with another word for it. Then I don't think we'll agree to it either. A loan means that you give someone temporary money and that money comes back at some point. That's a loan. So you give money and then you get it back. That's to relieve temporary distress. This is partly in kind and partly in financial terms. We already have it hard enough in the Netherlands. We're having a hard enough time with this crisis. Then I think: yes, we are going to help within the Kingdom, but then you can also say "hello, the money has to go back." It's a loan, isn't it? I can't explain the word any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u70	On a point of order, Mr President. Mr De Graaf asked the Secretary of State specifically for an explanation about Bonaire, but I think Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin are on the agenda. Of course, the Secretary of State himself is about his response, but it is not on the agenda. I haven't provided any further input on it either. It would be a shame if we had not talked about it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u71	Clear story, Mr. Chairman. It doesn't have to be an extensive exhibition either. Maybe there's one rule to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. De Graaf. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr President. D66 is pleased that the Secretary of State sent medical aid directly to the islands via Defence and that the first food packages were delivered equally. He was also fast with a first interest-free loan. It is really painful to see that the virus reveals a number of other island vulnerabilities. For example, the corona crisis has prevented the weak from taking care of themselves. Diabetes and obesity play a crucial role for a large group of islanders. In the medium term, we can face new problems. It is precisely at this time that is crucial how we define the concepts "solidarity" and "humanity." The same applies to the way we deal with undocumented refugees and immigrants. After all, the virus does not choose its victims on the basis of whether one is poor or rich. There is no distinction in euros, dollars or Antillean guilders. What we see is that support measures should mainly benefit families who are now unemployed at home, families who do not have a financial safety net and families without bread on the shelf. If we want to help the countries rebuild a strong society, the families and families affected are at the heart of D66. This can only be done if the Netherlands helps the Caribbean countries properly and the other countries themselves take initiatives to improve the situation. The starting point is that we work together in a good way and with mutual respect. Spaciously, the Action Together One Kingdom was obeyed. A private initiative that illustrates the connection between the countries of our Kingdom. I have a few questions about the first food aid. I read in the newspaper that some people need help, but they don't get it and that some families receive multiple packages. Does the Secretary of State have any idea of how to identify who receives food aid? Does the Secretary of State agree that, above all, countries should indicate how they support the weak and that this support should be accompanied by correct and up-to-date data so that proper monitoring can be carried out? Does the Secretary of State have any idea of helping undocumented people, such as refugees from Venezuela? Does the Secretary of State agree that the children most vulnerable to this crisis should be the first to receive this financial support? Does the Secretary of State agree that the countries with a structural approach to improving the opportunities of these most vulnerable children and families should come? People with chronic disease, such as diabetes and obesity, are particularly vulnerable when they catch the virus. This leads to additional complications and increases in mortality. Even before the virus showed up, it was clear that public health insurance is accessible to everyone, but that there is not enough attention within these basic packages for a healthy lifestyle and good innovation. Prevention is not included in the basic insurance package. Some governments are setting up and trying to develop a healthy prevention policy. This does not alter the fact that the focus on a healthy lifestyle is so necessary at this time, even later. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is precisely now necessary to work with the governments and the island councils to improve the public health system, which can provide the support as intended? How does the Secretary of State envisage the possibility of anchoring structural changes in the field of food in the medium term with a view to the concessions of the countries and the financial support provided? Does the Secretary of State agree with the fact that the food packages provided must comply with the Five Disc of the Food Centre? Does the Secretary of State agree that part of the liquidity support should go to the hospital in Curaçao to cover human and financial deficits? The report Small countries, major challenges show how vulnerable the islands are. After Irma, reconstruction has been abruptly slowed down by this terrible virus. We must now switch to a realistic emergency plan. The islands' economies are open economies. Tourism plays an important role in this. The boundaries of the islands are now closed. Is there any consultation with the countries on which exit strategies are envisaged? Last week, the Secretary of State sent out a clear signal by restricting the salaries of politicians, directors and public companies and by implementing pension reforms in exchange for state aid from the Netherlands. This decision sets a clear new course. The islands should use this crisis to recalibrate their focus areas. I understand that this choice has been made, but a number of things do deserve further clarification. Can the Secretary of State go into more detail on how he intends to achieve this? Does the Secretary of State consider that the Statute can be applied more actively and that the effect of the pandemic on the island's open economies justifies the use of Article 37 of the Statute? Is the State Secretary prepared to set up a proportional committee in accordance with Article 37 (1) and (2) with the task of discussing the terms of liquidity support and providing further advice to the RMR? This is how we do most of the work in the Netherlands. Does the Secretary of State also consider that Article 38 should provide for a more detailed arrangement for cases of urgency where rapid cooperation is necessary? Mr. Chairman. If this crisis makes any sense to us, it is that we must go through this difficult time together. After all, we are one kingdom, a civilized society, and we are united in our humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. Mr Bosman is very active today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u75	That's not so bad, Mr. Chairman. I'm just chewing on that commission. What exactly is it supposed to do? Is it going to include the choices made by the countries themselves with regard to the funding available? What exactly is this committee going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u76	I actually came up with the idea because I read the report in great detail. I actually see that all countries, including the Netherlands, have the same problem and that in terms of knowledge and organisation, perhaps also because the virus was quite active here earlier, we have used all kinds of experts and specialists to advise the cabinet how to handle this. In the Kingdom, all countries are also working on this. You can also see a migration from Curaçao to Bonaire: 800 people have already moved to Bonaire. So you can see that people don't feel safe anymore, in the sense of "can I handle it all, even financially?" Poor people go to the Netherlands. So this whole movement, it's gonna fit in with help, to solve it all together. And I'd like to bet that committee on that. So these are not politicians, not administrators, but people who say on the basis of expertise, science, experience and entrepreneurship: health care on the islands should do this and this. And just as we have economic aid packages and the like here, one could look at how this growth strategy could be implemented. The islands also have much to do with the same thing. So how could that be invented by setting up a committee, which, together with all of us, is not only going to investigate these problems or make a plan, but is also looking at how we can implement them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u77	That's very broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u78	Well, I don't think it's broad, in the sense that it was clear in the report that there is no lack of plans, but that there is sometimes too little expertise, knowledge and know-how in the implementation and implementation to get things done. We in the Netherlands might also be able to support this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u79	But that's not new, because that's what we always offer. I think that possibility is always there, and is also offered, in different ways. So I don't understand the model of that commission. Is that a voluntary or a non-binding advice? Does that have to be tested? Who's gonna decide who's gonna be on that committee? Are these different countries? Then who's in charge? How does Mrs. Diertens see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u80	Yes, I understand that there are still some additional questions to be asked. I mean, the Secretary of State also mentioned an "identity" in his documents. I am very curious to see what he meant by that, if that is perhaps in line with the committee I am referring to. But I really want to emphasise that covid is a global problem, and that together we are a kingdom where we can learn from each other within the Kingdom and help each other, not only financially, but also in support, knowledge, experience and entrepreneurship. I also found the private initiative of the fundraising action a very good example. And I think that for a more difficult and larger plan like a growth strategy, coming back from the covid period for the islands, there is just a lot of help. That's not just about money. It is also about cooperation, about the commitment of people there and of people here, so that we can help each other in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u81	However, I do not quite understand it, and I want to understand very well what Mrs Diertens really means. Is this committee intended to provide support and assistance in the health field? I have read the Statute again, because you refer to Rule 37. Or is it just like that and maybe that's just a little bit blunt about it that D66 actually thinks this whole package is a little too hard, and that there should be some kind of soft bouncing around it? What's the point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u82	No, it's not the intention at all to put a soft bouncing layer around it now. I am looking at the Statute, which is still active for me, because it clearly shows how we can work together in times to solve problems that concern us all together. That's what I want. And I am not undermining the short-term conditions that the Secretary of State is currently presenting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u83	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u84	Finally. We have had a Progress Committee in the past, or we still have one with regard to Saint Martin, and in the past with regard to Curaçao. Well, I just told you that the St. Martin's Progress Committee still has its hands full to see how things go. That is also a committee composed of the Netherlands and so on. I am not very impressed that this is going to bring a lot in the short term. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u85	Well, I guess...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u87	Excuse me, I'm sorry, but I'm so passionate about this, because I really think there are opportunities to help the people. I am not talking about people who have been poked and beaten up in boards, but I know that there is an enormous amount of talent on the islands, including in entrepreneurship and in private initiatives. I think we can make the connection in order to come up with good plans to get the economy back on track there. It is about health care and the social network that can still be improved there, but it is also about how we are going to help the islands with the economy and exit strategy. Because in Latin America covid is still very active and there is not really a good and sound policy for that. They are the neighbours of the islands. So I hope the covid virus doesn't get to the islands via Latin America, because then we'll be further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u88	Well, you've all put that perfectly, I think. That's what you wanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u89	Yeah, I'm hot, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u90	Thank you so much. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u91	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The coronavirus is everywhere, anywhere in the world and therefore within the Kingdom. This means that all four countries within the Kingdom face perhaps the greatest threat since the Second World War. In a very different way, but its impact is enormous. We see how complicated it is to have to fight an invisible enemy, an enemy that has already made many people sick and has also claimed many lives. Many in the Netherlands, but also some in the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom. The impact of the crisis resulting from the corona pandemic is even more severe on the islands than in the Netherlands. This is partly due, of course, to the insularity of the islands, but also to the one-sided economies which are almost entirely dependent on tourism. It is precisely this tourism that has come to a standstill. The islands are already talking about the invisible hurricane. And everyone knows what a hurricane always has for impact on islands. As far as I am concerned, that says a lot about how it is happening at the moment, but also about how it is experienced by people. Unemployment rises every day. Fear of the future is increasing and the consequences, including for ordinary men and women on the islands, are palpable. Security has become uncertainties. Over the last few weeks, I have been in close contact with the leaders and also with the prime ministers of the countries of the Caribbean parts of the Kingdom on how best to assist each other in this crisis. This has led to a broad package of support from the Dutch Government, with the emphasis initially of course on medical and humanitarian aid, and therefore on the most vulnerable. We've delivered ic-beds, meds and medical personnel as soon as possible. We are now helping those people who have become dependent on food aid. We're helping to secure public order. We contribute to the continuity of vital processes. The countries themselves are also working tirelessly to do the right things in the current difficult circumstances. I have deep respect, I say, from this place, for everyone who has contributed to it, from the people in care to the volunteers at the food banks. Every hour of that hard work brings us closer to normal times. Shortly after the first infections, all three countries have taken far-reaching measures. These measures are now beginning to bear fruit. At the moment there seems to be no transmission on the islands. So that's the good news. Meanwhile, global lockdowns have virtually stopped tourism. This means that the streets and the beaches of the famous pictures look very different at the moment. In addition, a recent opinion from the OMT shows that we should not expect the borders of the Caribbean countries to be open again in a responsible manner in the short term. The economies of the countries of our Kingdom are therefore suffering a shock that has never been seen before, with major consequences for the already shaky public finances. This therefore increases the need to implement structural economic reforms in all islands. This is the only way to bring countries on the path of sustainable public finances, to make societies more resilient and to create future prospects. Moreover, these reforms and the need for them are not today's. They've been needed for years. We have talked about it repeatedly here. There are opinions on them from the CFT and the IMF. Many discussions have also been held in the National Council of Ministers. I can only conclude, however hard it may be, that the countries have not succeeded in implementing these reforms. There are many reasons for this. Or reasons? Statements, I'd say. But it's a fact that that didn't happen. It's a long, unheard-of list of undisputed promises, unspoken appointments and unspoken advice. It is a list of things that could have happened a long time ago, but which, mostly due to political unwillingness and/or incompetence, have remained on the shelf. I could read out that list, Mr President, but I do not think it is necessary for the order of the debate. On October 10, 2010, Sint-Maarten and Curaçao consciously opted for autonomy, but also for the Kingdom Alliance. Aruba made that choice a long time ago. The pride with which the four countries within the Kingdom hold their own identity is standing. I appreciate that, too. I experience that every time I'm there. At the same time, however, this crisis shows that the Caribbean countries cannot bear their own autonomy. That's a harsh conclusion, but I can't help but come to that conclusion. Again, that is not directly related to the corona crisis, although it has exposed it once again. The indications for this were already on the table for a long time. After the Netherlands forbade the Netherlands Antilles on 10-10-10 billion in debt from the former country, the debts of the countries are now in danger of rising to unsustainable levels. The countries have not moved in recent years. As a result, their inhabitants have hardly been able to benefit from economic prosperity. What Mrs Özütok just said very nicely appeals to me: the strongest shoulders must bear the heavy burden. I note that there is no question of poverty, but of division. The people who can carry it don't carry it and eventually wallow it on the weakest. This is becoming apparent at the time when we are now in crisis. It is a disgrace, of course, but we are doing it, because we are very close to those people, and we must now send thousands of food packages that way to ensure that people get through the day. I find it extremely distressing that, in recent years, the countries have not been able to build up a system that will enable them to provide the help they need in a crisis, whether it be this one or another.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u93	I was thinking maybe you're in the middle of a general introduction. I suggest you finish it before we go to the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u94	Okay. That's right. Mr. Chairman. In other words, the countries seem to be on a dead end. COVID-19 is getting over that now. As a result of this crisis, the task that was already great has become even greater. I therefore note that a fundamentally different approach is needed. If we do what we have done over the past ten years, with all our good intentions, I am convinced that there will be no improvement. That conclusion alone is a licence of inability, a licence of inability to the inhabitants of the Kingdom who are currently suffering the most from this crisis. That this leads to reactions in the Caribbean countries, I can imagine, but I am trying to do this in my work, and I also feel supported by pointing the finger at the Chamber every time where it goes wrong and seeing how we can do it better. We do this in the interests of the people of the Caribbean countries. We can only conclude that the recipe for the last ten years has not worked. Mr. Chairman. I would like to divide my further speaking time into the following subjects. Such a division is always useful for the Chamber, to know where we are. I would like to say something about the proposals as they are now before us and the financial support that has been given to the countries so far. I would like to say something about the follow-up process on financial support. Several questions have been asked about this. I would like to say something about humanitarian aid and other crisis-related issues. Furthermore, many individual questions have been asked by Members, and I would like to answer them afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u95	I shall first give the floor to Mr Van Raak, then to Mrs Diertens and then to Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u96	The Minister says that Saint Martin and Curaçao cannot bear the burden of autonomy. I say 10-10 has failed. That is a dramatic conclusion that we share. I think it is a terrible conclusion, but I am glad that we now have a government that accepts it and that the Secretary of State also expresses it. One of the reasons why it has come to this is that on 10-10-10 far too many parties in the Chamber have made countries that were not yet ready. Now we see the consequences. We'll get to the help we're going to offer and the conditions we're going to set, but first let's take this point: 10-10-10. What does 10-10-10 failure mean, according to the Secretary of State? We now see that we all want to make a lot of money, people and resources available from the Netherlands to help the people of Curaçao and Saint Martin, but we are looking for a way to do that around the government and government organisations. That's a crazy situation. What are the words of the Secretary of State when he says that Curaçao and Saint Martin cannot bear the burden of autonomy? What does that mean for the future, for the relations in the Kingdom? What should be done, according to the Secretary of State, to ensure that these islands are able to bear the burden of their own administration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u97	Basically, the countries will have to implement good governance within the framework of the Statute and within the autonomous position they have. What do we mean by good governance? That is actually the whole system of the rule of law, financial management, integrity, you name it. But also, for example, the issue of'something that has been touched by some of you; I was thinking, in particular, of how to deal with undocumented illegals by Mrs Dierten. Because we all know that they have been a maximum part of the economy. That goes well as long as it goes well, but now there are questions about who gets help and who's the biggest victim. This is all part of the position of an independent country, an autonomous country. We can see that it was all very shaky. Mr Van Dam talked about the progress committees that have been there, but I can mention a whole list of examples of cases where things are very slow, where no progress is made and difficult choices are avoided. Politics and governance, in my opinion, is making choices in the interests of your citizens, even in the longer term. However, we must note that Mr Van Raak and Mr Bosman have also given a number of examples: over the last few years there have been too many politicians and administrators who apparently had another agenda that was not primarily focused on the welfare of their inhabitants, with the consequences as we know it now. What is autonomy, I wonder, when you are completely dependent, in other words, when you have made yourself dependent on the Netherlands for support in this case because you do not have the basic public finances in order? Why can we in the Netherlands deal with this crisis? Because in the years that it went well, we have made provisions that allow us to continue to bear the current increase in national debt. I realize very well, because I do not want to compare the Netherlands one-on-one with Curaçao, Aruba or Sint-Maarten, that the small island states they are, is accompanied by additional vulnerabilities. Not only the size and location, also the geopolitical location, but also the dependence on tourism will ensure that every economist will say: this is vulnerable. That's also written down in reports. I can only reflect on the past two and a half years, but I think that at that time too little too late has been reacted. There has been too little action and too much progress in public finances. Which means we're in the situation we're in right now. You can have that autonomy on the basis of the Statute, but if in practice you are completely dependent on others....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u98	Very clear. This also means that we are now not only fighting a disaster, the corona crisis, the invisible hurricane, but also trying to correct the mistakes we made on 10-10-10. Actually, we're rebooting, rebooting with the political relations. That is actually what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u99	I understand that Mr Van Raak is turning the film back to 10-10-10 and, certainly on the basis of his position at the time, comes to the conclusion: that was not a good decision. I would like to break that up a little bit. There is no doubt that there is some correlation between linking the current situation with that of the previous decision, but I think that is too simple. Why? 10-10-10 could also have led to the fact that, given the new relationships in the Kingdom, the directors had done the good things in the successive years, by the way, with the support of the Netherlands. This could have put the rule of law in order. However, take the example of the prison on St.Maarten. That's all-inclusive. It is all telling that for ten years you have allowed yourself to have a degrading situation, while the government of St.Maarten only decided last year, under pressure from the Netherlands, because otherwise it would not have happened, to allocate additional funds to that prison in the budget. This was an entirely autonomous competence under the Staff Regulations 10-10-10, namely the law enforcement of the country. But it has simply been totally forsaken, maladministration, failure, with all the consequences, because the Kingdom of the Netherlands, and then it often goes to the Netherlands, through Strasbourg, is finally called upon to do so. That's what Mr Bosman said. That's how it goes. For example, I can mention these examples in all areas. It's really too easy to just make a comparison with 10-10-10. I would like to give Mr Van Raak his position. Other groups had the hope and expectation that it would get better, but now, on 20 May 2020, we can only conclude that too little progress has been made in the last ten years and that we are therefore in the situation we are in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u100	Political unwillingness or incompetence, good governance: I fully agree, but it is a crisis at the moment and I am also very happy that you are going through it. I'm wondering about this. The reflections that we have over and over again go back to the past. I am very sorry that we find ourselves in a polarisation of some sort every time. This is not only from the Dutch side, but also from the side of the islands. "You think this and we think that." There's probably a very deep reason why that's true. I didn't want to talk about that right now, but I do want to know how the Secretary of State thinks we can get out of this impasse to look forward again, not always at the past. We can conclude a great deal, and we are partly in agreement on that. But how are we going to take that step forward so that we can take steps in a positive and optimistic way, in difficult circumstances, together with the islands, to achieve a better future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u101	I fully understand that question. I would remind you once again that in recent times we have been particularly concerned with the crisis, with medical and humanitarian aid. I am on the basis of the much-cited article on solidarity, but because I really think that we should act on it quickly. We have been able to do so with the help of many. The countries have also thanked us for doing so. The issue that is now on the table is that huge support packages are being requested. They are not financed by those countries themselves. The Netherlands is asked whether we want to grant loans. We can only ensure that these countries change their economic starting point if things change. In fact, this crisis is one big wake-up call. I don't think this is a wake-up call for many people, because they knew it for a long time, but for some this is probably a wake-up call. Then let it be a wake-up call! Let the politicians and the people of the countries understand that another crisis like this is going to get over it and who tells us that a crisis like this will not happen again in a few years' time? It's just not gonna survive. So you're gonna have to act now. You're really gonna have to change things that were said to me up to two or three months ago: we're not gonna do that. Okay. We want to help. The National Council of Ministers has decided to do so. We have made an offer, a non-compulsory offer to the countries to provide that support. In return, we ask that the countries do what is necessary in their own interests. As far as I am concerned, this has nothing to do with polarizing; it is simply economically sound measures and we are going to develop them with the countries in the near future. It really is a number of steps that have not been taken in recent years. Business as usual is no longer on the agenda. If we keep doing things the way it's been done for the past ten years, we'll know one thing for sure: it's gonna go really wrong. This is just the foreplay. I don't want that on my conscience. I do not want to bear the responsibility for the fact that we do grant loans, when everything just goes crazy the way it goes. I've also heard the reactions of some drivers. "Yes, we were already working on it." You have also experienced in the last three months that things have happened in this country and throughout the world that no one thought possible. And you can only do that because you have to act, react to what's going on. If you stay in the same mode as in the past few years, that's not gonna happen. We would like to help the countries. We can offer knowledge and skill. We've done that before, by the way. We can carry out programmes with the countries, but we do want the money we are going to give them to really make them stronger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u102	The Secretary of State says it's a divisional issue between rich and poor. I agree with him very much. But if the countries now agree to this package, will the underlying systems and machines still be workable? That's a concern of mine. Or does the Secretary of State also see opportunities for citizens' initiatives or NGOs to break that system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u103	Yeah, I can see those possibilities. I am a little reluctant to tell the countries what to do. There's room in that too. But that there must be reforms and that you cannot continue with what you have done, because it is simply not affordable it is simply not bearable... will be clear. I myself am very much in favour of a role for NGOs, simply because they can play a good role in societies. But I think it is now mainly up to the governments of the countries to come up with proposals for this. They're gonna hurt, too, because again, it's not gonna happen. You're gonna have to grow out of that crisis. I heard the stories about economic diversification. I have also taken a number of initiatives on this issue myself. If there is no response from the countries and it is not finally arrested... I hope that happens this time. I hope that this time we are not only talking about diversification, but that we are also working on it. I hope not everything is seen as "it happens to us." I do not deny that there is a geopolitical problem in the Lower Wind region. That's absolutely there. We have a humanitarian issue around Venezuela. Of course, we have Upper Winds the hurricanes, but they come back every few years. So these hurricanes are causing a crisis, but you can prepare for that, and that is exactly the core of the program that we are going through with Saint Martin. But governments have to prepare for this kind of eventuality. We are going to help people and NGOs can play a role in that. However, I am not going to draw from the Netherlands how to do all this. But of course we are asking that the money we are about to give does not disappear into those pockets that some of you were talking about, but that it is spent on the good things in the right way. That money should not be used to finance the model of the past.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u104	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Chairman. We are talking about financial support for the countries. The economies have been severely affected, and the abrupt shut-down of tourism has led to a decline in foreign exchange stocks and an acute liquidity shortage for countries. In addition, additional resources are needed to take action in the corona crisis. Without additional liquidity, countries will no longer be able to meet their financial obligations. That is why we have provided liquidity support from the Netherlands, aimed at emptying the first, immediate emergency and at financing emergency packages. And I say it again: the support we give in the context of medical care and humanitarian aid is unconditional, unbiased. We are organizing this aid through the Red Cross. The Red Cross is a kind of "main contractor" on the islands. And the Red Cross works together with local NGOs as much as possible to put this away in a good way. The first tranche of liquidity aid has now provided some 170 million in loans to the countries. Mr De Graaf, but I also thought Mrs Kuik, asked about these loans. They are loans on which the countries do not pay interest. We can also borrow at the moment at 0%, so we will pass that on to the countries. Moreover, the next two years do not need to be repaid. And after that period, we're going to look at how we're going to proceed with it, whether we need to refinance on new conditions and how the repayment deadlines are going. So that's two years from now. We have deliberately done so that we do not have to have that discussion now. After all, we are in a crisis, now we have to help, and now we have to take action. The money becomes available and the money is also very much needed. I can't anticipate it either, I'll tell Mrs. Kuik. What if? What if? What's gonna happen? I can't anticipate that. Here's what I want to say. I also hear the sounds where people say: well, just do those loans in the form of gifts, that's much nicer, because then the debt ratio of the countries doesn't go up. The process we are now entering is a very exciting process. We are being asked a great deal and we are prepared to deliver a great deal. But we do with conditions. And as the countries react more actively, more quickly and appropriately and these reforms are being implemented, I say again: that is in the interests of their own economy and their own inhabitants, I think, there is more willingness from the Netherlands to think about other modalities. I'm not going to talk about what's going on in two years' time, and I can't and I don't want to anticipate it right now, but it takes two to tango. So if we are helping and others, also from the point of view of solidarity, are prepared to take measures themselves, to take the right steps, then the basic attitude should be to look at them in a positive way. But not already at this stage of the process, because in recent years too much has been promised and too little has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u106	I will try to ask two questions at once. The first is about emergency aid. How does the cabinet assess exactly what is needed, and whether additional matters are still needed? I understand that emergency aid is given without conditions. The second is about the loan that is now being granted. So the Secretary of State says: if the conditions are met and we work together in a good way in the near future, then I am certainly not against turning it into a gift or a gift. Do I understand the Secretary of State that well? I hear terms such as'methods'. Let's stick to normal Dutch for a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u107	Yeah, that's what I'm for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u108	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u109	Not against it. Look, right now, it's just not on the agenda. I have just indicated that the faster the countries do the things they should have done for a long time, a different attitude will emerge from the Netherlands. To put it domestically, the risk profile of the loans we are now granting is extremely high. Extremely high. Because if there is nothing in the form of reforms, we still have to see if we can get that money. So we're really at great risk, especially if it's gonna take longer. Besides, nobody knows how long it's gonna take. It's big money. The tourism sector is not yet in business. If you translate that one-on-one into the debt of those countries, then we all know the figures, which, by the way, are slightly different from one country to another, which really goes beyond the three figures. That's unhealthy, especially for small islands, so we shouldn't want that. We're talking about sustainable finances. But I can only say that if there is a willingness on the part of countries to respond positively and to get to work quickly, there is more willingness on the part of the Dutch side to think about modalities other than refinancing. That's as far as I can go, because I'll talk for my turn. We're all gonna see and judge that, but I'm not gonna rule it out. Maybe that's a good summary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u110	I conclude with your words: you do not rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u111	By the way, I have very little to rule out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u112	I'm just gonna wrestle the toes. I think it is very nice that we are looking so far ahead and I also understand what Mrs Kuik wants, but I actually have some more concerns in the short term. Because how does it work now? That money has almost been transferred, with priority, because the need there is high, and the conditions have not yet been met. What if it turns out, inside now and I think it runs until June 1st, that conditions have not been met? Are you going on the moped to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to get it back? So what's the consequence?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u113	It begins with the fact that the countries are in need and that we want to help them. They have nowhere else to go but us. We have said that we want to give this help. That's what the National Council of Ministers decided. The first tranche is simply given, the second tranche is given conditionality, conditions. They will increase over time, because those deadlines, those tranches, are about six weeks. So you can imagine that, if it takes a while, we regularly have these kinds of weighing moments. So we're going to do this one step at a time. Any decision for the next tranche shall be made on the basis of past results from the previous tranche. That's under review. At the moment when we now proceed with the provision of liquidity support and the conditions are not fulfilled, we will lose that money. It's a loan that has to be repaid, but then we won't have it back. Then there is no access to the next tranche, with all the consequences. The time you could still sit in the mode of consultation with each other, I've been through it all. You can remember the growth agreement with Curaçao, which we have talked about a great deal about. But I can tell you that very little has been achieved. There was no corona back then. There have been procedures at the Council of State and all sorts of things, but that was about the interpretation of what could and could not be done. Very little has been achieved. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. There is no time to create a large committee that is going to see for another year how it should all be: we simply need to act now. I really hope that now everyone realizes that we have no time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u114	I fully share that. That is why I wanted to make that point. I do not think that attention should be paid to whether we are going to conclude this as a loan in three years' time. We must ensure that these conditions are fulfilled now. I'd like that clarity from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u115	Good. Mr. Van Raak. You've just been here. That's why I'm looking at you. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u116	Aruba has said yes to the terms. Sint-Maarten and Curaçao have until 17.00 hours; that is in four hours. We have a debate now. Any news from Curaçao or Saint Martin? Is there any indication of whether the countries will cooperate at all? Because if it is not, then we do not have to have this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u117	I received a letter from Curaçao just before the debate this morning. That was a very long letter, so I'm gonna have to study it. I just got a message that there's also a letter from Saint Martin inside. I haven't seen it yet, but I'll get a message about it. I'm going to study that too to see what's in it. I'll make a decision on that. I've been mandated from the National Council to handle this. The question is whether the question "are you using the non-compulsory supply to which certain conditions are opposed?" has been answered with yes. And if there's no clarity about that or if it's not a definite yes, then it's off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u118	Mr. Van Raak?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u119	It's kind of a point of order. The letters are in. That's good. We don't know what it says yet. Pretty much. Is it possible, however, that the Secretary of State may decide on this in the second term and that we might have a break or something just before the second term, if necessary? The essence of this debate is the question: do the government of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten want to cooperate with the Netherlands at all? I wonder if the Secretary of State can answer that question during this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u120	This is, of course, a process which is actually an extension of the National Council of Ministers. I consider this to be a process which runs until 5 p.m. this afternoon, even in asking for further clarification from my side on long letters which have been sent to me. I haven't had a chance to look at that yet. I should like to look at the suspension in a moment to see if there is more to it and if there is anything else I can say about it, but I cannot guarantee that. If I say something, I have to be able to do that, and I have to have that position tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u121	I think the Chamber will welcome it if the Secretary of State tries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u122	It depends a little on the letters and what's in them. So if there's just a definite yes, then as far as I'm concerned, it's clear. And that's what Aruba did. They reacted very quickly. They simply said: yes, without conditions. And with that, the first amount has already been transferred to Aruba. I will see if I can come back to that point in a moment. The last National Council of Ministers therefore discussed additional tranches. There was a country-by-country proposal for a soft loan based on advice from the CFT. As I said, they are non-compulsory proposals. The choice is up to the countries to accept the proposal. There are a number of conditions. Since the Ministers responsible wanted to have discussions with their governments, it was then decided not to take a decision at that time. So that ends at 5:00 p.m. this afternoon. The conditions involved are concrete measures that we expect the countries to take. We do not want vague plans but concrete measures. For example, pension reforms in St Martin, for which a proposal has been before the States for a long time and which only has to be said yes to it. And, of course, we must finally have transparency about the financial sector in Curaçao and about the solutions that have been put in place. Because you can only spend the money once. Countries have also been asked to find room in their own budgets by making savings where possible. In any case, there must be a reduction in salaries for politicians, civil servants and managers of public enterprises. The cost of the government on the islands is, as you know, very high. We have had debates on this many times. So they also weigh heavily on the budgets of the islands. And the reduction in the salary building is inevitable, as far as I am concerned, especially from the point of view of solidarity with all those people who have now lost their jobs outside the public sector. I find it incredibly unbelievable, let me just say that I see discussions between trade unions and the government of Curaçao as if there is no corona, as if there is no unemployment of tens of percent and as if it is business as usual. I find that unheard of. So when you talk about solidarity, including in your own country, civil servants, people in the public sector, should also be able to show solidarity with those who no longer have a job. In addition, top incomes in the semi-public sector are high, also in absolute terms. And by far the smallest country in our kingdom, St. Martin's it has been discussed before.. has the best paid rulers and MPs. That's something to think about. In order to set an example, the working conditions of directors and Members of Parliament must be substantially reduced as soon as possible. I have been making this appeal to the countries for a long time, even on the initiative of your Chamber. I would say that is all the more urgent now. That is why this was an important point in the proposals on the table in the National Council of Ministers: the reduction of the total package, one of you asked for the conditions of employment of members of the State and ministers. In addition, for all senior officials, a maximum of working conditions should be introduced. Well, you've been able to read all that in the leaked documents of the National Council of Ministers. I am not happy with that, as you can imagine. But it just went on whatsapp in its entirety. So Aruba has agreed to that. I thank Aruba for that. They had taken most of the measures themselves, I believe, before the National Council of Ministers made these conditions. But there too, of course, it is about implementation. Mr. Chairman. For the sake of clarity and also because no questions have been asked, I do not go into the situation on a country-by-country basis. If there are any questions about that, I'd like to answer them. However, I can say that we are going to discuss this with the countries individually in the coming period. A number of generic conditions have been laid down. The situation in the countries is very similar, but also different. We must also do justice to the fact that they are autonomous countries, unique autonomous countries, all of which have their own concerns and plans that can still be implemented. If the countries agree to the proposal that is on the table, we are going to look at it in such a way that at least they will be able to meet their financial obligations by the end of June 2020. As mentioned above, longer-term liquidity support will be subject to more stringent conditions in the following tranches. In addition, additional loans will no longer be granted through government, but through an entity to be established. This way we can also steer towards sustainable results. I invited the countries to come forward with their own proposals for reform. The overall package will be discussed by country in the coming weeks, and the CFT will also play an important role. The decision on this aid, on this tranche, is foreseen at the National Council of Ministers on 3 July. Then it will also be checked whether the conditions, which are now at least what Aruba has said it agrees to, are actually met. So they look back and look forward. I will, of course, inform the Chamber about this, I say in the direction of Mr Van Raak. Mr Van Raak, Mr Bosman and others regularly talk about the Statute. I understand that, because that is not entirely illogical in itself, but you understand that I am now mainly trying to tackle the crisis and to ensure that the requests for acute liquidity or liquidity are made. budget support, will be converted into good measures. As part of the implementation of the Van Raak motion, I sent a letter to the representatives of the countries. The request was: are you prepared to talk about the situation, about the relations? I could add the Van Dam motion to that, in the context. At that time I had a reaction very quickly from Aruba and Curaçao, who was positive: they were willing to have that conversation. Last week, after some pressing, Sint-Maarten finally replied as well. They have also indicated that they have agreed to participate. So we are actually going to start this process now. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to point 3, humanitarian aid. We see the images and we see what's going on in the countries: you've been there yourself and we've been there. We've seen the footage through Jandino, with the action Together one Kingdom. It is crying heavenly if you allow yourself to know that in our Kingdom people who speak the same language as we are dependent on food packages. I also hear from people who are now in Curaçao that you are just being addressed when you leave the store. People ask: can I pick one thing from your shopping bag? That's never happened before. There was, of course, always poverty, but the situation is now really serious. I therefore believe, and there has been no discussion about this, that we should do everything we can to make aid available. We've done that for the next three months. Then the question is, how are you gonna do that? In each of the countries it is organized differently and there are other organisations sometimes involved in the distribution. They have been working on initiatives for a long time: food banks, church organisations and NGOs. We want to join the strength of the countries themselves as much as possible. Where are the organisations that have an image, which know where help is needed up to the capillaries? Mrs Diertens' question was quite right: how do you prevent one from getting anything twice and the other from getting nothing? I cannot rule out the possibility that it will happen once, because we cannot control it from The Hague. We have asked the Red Cross, as an organisation that has experience worldwide with this kind of thing, to do so, but we have specifically asked that they do so together with the local NGOs. The impact varies from one country to another. We're gonna follow that. The first tranche covers 16 million for the countries and 0.5 million for the Caribbean Netherlands. The goal is to help the people as quickly as possible. We're going to follow that, of course. I can't rule out the fact that the situation is continuing any longer. Then we'll keep helping. Then I come to a number of other issues, starting with point 4: crisis-related issues. I believe that we have learned not only within the Kingdom, but also within Europe and worldwide that we need to work together in a crisis like this, including within the Kingdom. I think this has gone very well, too. I myself have weekly meetings with the prime ministers and also with the authorities of the BES Islands. For example, Mr Blokhuis also has discussions with his colleagues in the field of public health. It went in good harmony. There has also been a rapid shift because health care is already vulnerable and, in the event of a pandemic, the capacity is always too low. You've been dividing it all along. In the Netherlands we had problems in the first phase. Then we went to Germany with the patients. In this case, you need to get off the island. Where are you going? Through the combination of 42 ic-units that send in direction with personnel on the one hand and support from Defence on the other, we have ensured that we can switch if anything happens on one of the islands. That has worked well so far. Mobility in the area has been increased by setting up a logistics cell. We try to use the logistics flows as efficiently as possible. With the help of the countries themselves, which have taken far-reaching measures very quickly, we are also in good medical condition, but it remains very vulnerable. Especially if tourism were to start again, there is of course a chance that you will be able to get transmission again, with all the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'll look at Mrs. Chicken first, because it was here earlier. You can commit your interruption to that microphone, because it touched you, Mrs. Diertens. First Mrs. Chicken and then Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u124	Sorry, Chairman, that's up to me. I should have walked faster. I actually had some questions about the financial side and the loans. Let me briefly summarise some of them. My questions relate in particular to supervision. In Aruba, for example, the Cft must supervise. This has not yet been officially implemented. How's that going? Some conditions have been set for a longer period. This applies, for example, to salaries. Is that still part of negotiation, or is that just a given and is it now? I have also specifically asked about the role of trade unions, the position of banks and their own currency. Then I'm not quite complete yet, but at least this is a list of things that fall under this heading.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u125	I'll get back to you on that. I indicated at the beginning that I will deal with all the individual questions as a package. So they're somewhere in my folder. I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u126	I thought I'd keep going to health care anyway. I've also been a spokesperson for the last few months. I know how hard it is for the hospitals to give that help right now. In one of the newspapers I read that the new hospital in Curaçao in particular has a great deal of difficulty in finding staff who can provide this help. I'd appreciate it if you could say a little more about that. Of course, they just started a new hospital. This is not all financially smooth, but there is also a problem with human capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u127	At the moment, I am not aware of any problems regarding the provision of the necessary care around corona. Just as in the Dutch hospitals you have the corona care and the regular care. I do know about the financial problems of the Curaçao hospital! Oh, but not in relation to corona. I should check with my colleague, or I should come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u128	I have a point that fits in with this. A support request has been made from Curaçao to America to get nurses or people who can provide support on the ic's to Curaçao. That request is there. Has it been a condition of the Netherlands to bring these people to Curaçao? Secondly, I have a list of names of people on the island who are nurses or who are medically trained, but who are not going to get to work. I don't know. I don't know. I'd be sorry if those two didn't get together. I imagine this is something for the Minister of Health or the Secretary of State for Health, but I'm gonna put it down here anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u129	Maybe it's good to take two things apart. You will be given more information on the health situation anyway, but I really suggest that you receive a letter from Mr Blokhuis. Then the flying in of that American unit. That had to do with the speed of action. You want a unit in which one is interlocked and can also deliver what is needed. In consultation with the countries and the ministry of VWS, it was then chosen to fly in this unit. That choice had to do with reliability, security and speed. That is without prejudice to the fact that I also received those signals. That was this time from Aruba, where people with degrees are also walking around who aren't going to get to work. I am not competent enough to answer those questions. I suggest that they be taken into account in a separate letter about that. I was somewhat triggered by the story of Mrs Özütok and others. This was also discussed in recent debates. Sometimes illegal migrants and refugees were confused, if I may put it that way. This also happened in all sorts of reports and press releases that came out about it. We can see that this group of people is particularly vulnerable. Those are the ones who lose their jobs first. They cannot fall back on any system or safety net. There is even a threshold to use humanitarian aid. We discussed this point in the talks with the prime ministers of the countries. I am assured that no relationship will be established between the provision of aid and the removal or removal of these undocumented people from the islands. Together with the NGOs, a system has been created for this. So these people just get help. This is without prejudice to the fact that the problem of illegal undocumented people who have been part of the economy for a very long time is, of course, not being tackled sustainably, regardless of whether you should want all of this from a humanitarian point of view. These people do not always have the same rights as others. So I think this is also a point when you talk about reform: how do you deal with it in the long term? If you "take advantage" of people who do cheap work, those are the ones who pay the highest price when there is crisis. This is an issue which I believe should be the subject of political debate in an autonomous country. You're not gonna fix that from today to tomorrow, but we're gonna have to start now. Mr. Chairman. I would like to turn to the questions that have been put to me. There's a lot of them. Mr Bosman had a number of questions about members of the State at Sint-Maarten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u130	In general.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u131	Oh, about statesmen in general. He asked about health insurance and his own contributions, and whether these revenues are covered by the scheme for the reduction of the salary of political officials. Yes, the conditions that I have laid down for the reduction of the salary relate to the whole working conditions package. This means that health insurance is included. Mr Bosman asked whether it was true that members of the State did not pay contributions for their pensions at St Maarten, and his second question was when they retired. Political leaders in the broad, thus also state members, can retire when they have reached the age of 60. They don't pay pension contributions. Mr Bosman wondered whether there was an early retirement among the directors and statesmen of the Caribbean countries. I have to make a small reservation here, but as far as I know there is no early retirement scheme. 60 years in our context could also be called early retirement. That's right. Mr Bosman asks whether there is a middle-wage scheme or a final wage scheme for Member States. On St.Maarten there is a pension based on the final wage of political authorities. Mr Bosman also asked if State members of Sint-Maarten paid their own contribution to health insurance. I think I've already answered that. Mr Van Raak always goes back to 10-10-10. He is also one of the few who was in Parliament at the time and spoke about it, together with Mr Bosman. Oh, Mr. Bosman wasn't there at the time. Mr Van Raak wonders whether the approach we are taking now, which lays down conditions for strong support, will succeed this time. This time we are setting the conditions at the front, where honesty requires us to say that we are now asking the countries to agree to the conditions they still have to implement. That's the story that's going to take place until July. We will also establish a new entity. The funds will also be paid out to the countries through that entity. They don't go directly to the countries. So we're closer to it. That's another way than in the past. Moreover, it is also the first time that such extensive budget support has been requested. We have of course had Saint Martin around the hurricane, but that was an explainable situation. As far as reconstruction is concerned, in particular, we have asked the World Bank to implement the 550 million. This is, in a way, a new situation, but in the light of today's precarious financial situation and the real need to change, which we have just talked about, we are now choosing a different method of settling this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u132	I have a very short question. Does the new entity look like the process we have started with the World Bank, where the entity is a financial depot controlled by the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes. We are going to work on this further, but on the understanding that the World Bank is an external entity, it works all over the world, and that it is clearly not the intention here to work with the World Bank. This will be a separate entity within the Dutch domain. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations will develop this further. I will not say that there is no possible role for the IMF, for example, to advise on what effective measures are and what is not. Some of you also said that the Cft obviously has a slightly different role. We have the Cft right now and we are in a very special situation. We want to make that transformation into that entity. You will be informed about how we will proceed. We are now studying to get that off the ground as soon as possible. In any case, we will not do so in the traditional way as we used to do before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u134	I feel like the Secretary of State is over my question now, because he's starting Mr. Van Raak. Of course, officials are going to turn in to support where possible, but there is no way of getting the big money there. The big money is not to be found in the real economy. Now we are looking at the real economy again. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that it is essential that the black money, the money that is not in that economy but is being skimmed and put in his own pocket, is found, preferably as soon as possible? Because that's gonna help everybody.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u135	Yes, but I would like to say to Mr Bosman that we are only at stage 1. So there's going to be multiple phases. With regard to the transparency of the financial sector and compliance, the extent to which taxes are levied and collected in different countries according to the principle of "strongest shoulders, heaviest burdens," there is still a world to be won. In the relationship between the formal economy and the informal economy, it is huge what is missing from tax revenue. Hence my position that I am convinced that the three countries are not poor countries, but that good governance that belongs to autonomy implies that you are actually going to do the good things with regard to tax collection and that it cannot be that, if you earn a lot of money, you hardly pay taxes. Those are countries we don't want to be compared to. I am not saying right away that we need to implement the progressive tax system of the Netherlands as a blueprint. That is really up to the countries themselves, but something must change there. You cannot maintain a country with expenditure on the rule of law, health care expenditure and social security and education expenditure if you do not have your tax collection in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u136	Sure, that's from now on and into the future, but I'm also looking at the past. When Curaçao became a country, 10-10-2010, we took over all the debts. In the two years under Gerrit Schotte, these debts have grown enormously, but that money has not entered the economy. Hundreds of millions of Aqualectra, of the refinery in Curaçao and of the BOO have disappeared. There have been constructions and that money has evaporated. No, it hasn't evaporated; it's in someone's pocket. Then we talk about hundreds of millions that can actually benefit the country of Curaçao directly. But it also happens on Aruba and also on Saint Martin. So it is not so much forward looking; I want to look back at the illegality of the money that people have put in their pockets. That's where the money has to come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u137	I understand Mr Bosman's question. That would also be a bit of my answer to Mrs Diertens, who asked why we should always look back. Looking back has to do with me not wanting to be naive about the future, precisely because these things have happened. But if it is very specific about the issues that Mr Bosman is talking about, then I would say that there are a number of investigations going on. That's not my deal. I wholeheartedly support it, because I believe that those responsible for this need to be dealt with. You yourself had a whole list of examples of people who have already been dealt with. So the system is working, but it's a little behind. Quite a few prison sentences have been handed out in recent years. Let that also be an example for today's drivers to do the right thing. That would be my message. I'm responsible for helping them do that. Again, it is their responsibility for everything that has happened in the past. I do not want to put that under the mat in any way, because I find it horrible, scandalous, objectionable and you name it. I could use all kinds of words for that, but that's really a matter for the D.A.'s office, I'd say. But if what we are about to do also in terms of financial openness of financial institutions, if we have, of course, seen the problems of the central banks, and everything that is attached to them, are confronted with things that cannot bear the light of day, then we will, of course, take action on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u138	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u139	I think we have people in the Netherlands who have just retired and who have worked at the FIOD. Can we not make a proposal in the sense of: we are prepared to send 200 people that way and let them search the books for a year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u140	Yeah, that could be, maybe; I don't know. Everything's on the table. I'm not gonna say that I couldn't. We need to see what's proportional. On the one hand, of course, we are still putting out the fire. At the same time, Mr Bosman is asking for the murderer to be found and tried. I get that. Some of that has already been done and some of it may still have to be done. Let's just keep this theme above the market. I say this in the direction of the countries, because this also explains, of course, why we are going to impose these conditions; I am also standing here on behalf of the Dutch taxpayer. We do not do this because we want to sharpen or polarize relations, which we are accused of. No, we do that because we're not crazy Henkie, who just transfers the money and then hopes we're gonna be okay. We've seen too many things in the past where it's gone completely wrong. I feel extremely related to all those people who live there and who have also been victims of their own governments over the past few years, let me put it this way: they have simply not done the good things, and they are now in misery. Will we also mention that point once, instead of pointing to the Netherlands every time and saying: those Dutch people make crazy conditions? No, we set very real conditions. And we're helping. And we have an extremely high risk profile in what we do, but we do it because we are one Kingdom. But I'm not gonna transfer money and then accept that it's gonna be like this for the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u141	I'm not naive. I have also made it quite clear here: anything that is just wrong, that stinks and that is not good, we simply need to take action on that and that must be prosecuted. But looking back all the time doesn't offer any perspective in the situation we're in right now. I agree that anything that is not right should simply be prosecuted and that there should be a trial. That's what we're a rule of law for. What I do think is important is that the basic attitude that we have is to make it very clear to the Secretary of State that in this debate too, Mr President, is a positive approach to helping. I also think it is an important message for the islands that this is the case and that we should cooperate in this respect. When I look at the whole list of things that have to be done, including in the report we have had, I think: it is a lot and it is very big. When I look at all kinds of situations that we want to prescribe, I see that many times there are chain agreements and lawsuits behind them. That's really complicated. Perhaps the Secretary of State can still reflect on that, because it is actually very large. It seems like we're just saying a few things and then saying: if you don't, then it can't. But there are, of course, a lot of things behind, which need to be sorted out very carefully and with which we need to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u142	It's definitely complicated, absolutely. It's very complex. In those clouds of wool, you have to start diving and prioritizing what you're gonna do first. In that whole process of the tranche ring, it's also embedded, step by step. Let me keep it close to myself. My lesson from the growth agreement we agreed with Curaçao was that there was an agreement that contained all the good things. Nothing or hardly anything has been realized. It was just discussed in the familiar way and weighed again, in the vein of: we still have to talk to that and that one. Eventually, we're a year away and there's nothing left. We just don't have that time. We have to do it another way. So let me say: I don't understand too much about all these complexities, because everything is complex. We are also dealing with a crisis that is very complex. And you only get out of there if you do things differently than you did in the past. So the reflex of "we go back to the statute, back to the procedures, back to the court cases"... It's all fine, but then it stops; let that message be very clear. I would very much like to help, but I would like to see the pace we are putting in on the other side as well. And you can; it's just proven that you can. I'll give Aruba an example of how quickly you can make decisions that are necessary in recent times. And the story of "we've been thinking about pension reform for a long time" has no value to me. It doesn't have value until you turn that into action. How can you explain that we retire here with 67-plus, and people there at a much lower age, and that then the hand is held up? I do not think that is solidarity. I think we just have the right to say something about it, to find something and say that. And I'd like it if the reaction on the other side is: we agree and we're going to do that together. Then we're gonna help each other. And then we are the first to help, because the task is enormous. And I also see that there are administrators of good will, that there are people who want to move forward, who also suffer from the system they are all in. Well, then we're gonna deal with that system, then we're gonna do other things. Of course, I understand the discussion about the Statute, but that's for me. There is, of course, and for a long time. If I have to change that now... We had a discussion about the dispute settlement. I believe that this has been considered for eight years. It's in the First Chamber now. Those are not the deadlines I intend to address this crisis. I really think it's gonna have to go a lot faster. That's possible, really; I'm sure of it. But everyone must step over their own shadow and also have the political courage to stand up to the people in the country, who say "will we do it in a different way?" It is no longer possible to say that if we still have the right to exist as autonomous countries at all, then we will have to do a number of things differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u143	Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u144	Well, I'm here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u146	There are politicians on Sint-Maarten and Curaçao who say: those conditions that the Netherlands imposes, that is because the Netherlands wants to control our island. I can see that backwards. I see the demands, the conditions that the Dutch Government lays down, as I say from the opposition, as an invitation to cooperate. We will soon hear what Saint Martin and Curaçao have said. But that also means to me that, if there is an invitation from the Netherlands to work together, that a "yes" or a "no" can be, and not a "yes, if" or a "yes, but." Can the Secretary of State be here in a second term, or else simply promise here that the invitation we make is an invitation that can be accepted or not, and not an invitation that is the beginning of a conversation, a judicial procedure, or do I know a lot about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u147	Yeah, that's it in essence, and that might be a shock to some people. But for me, in contrast to the dramatic situation in which the countries are faced, or are faced with it. having got himself caught up in the last ten years, there's no time to set up a long-term committee. That's okay, I'm fine with thinking about it, but we already know, it's written all over the place. Mrs Kuik referred to the report on the diversification of the economy. As long as I'm doing this, it's always said. Then it's good to pick that up, too, to do something with it. We have, of course, seen the discussion at St Maarten about the reconstruction: just a year has been screwed up, wasted, with a discussion about the airport. It could have been operational by now. It's not our fault, but just do it. It's possible in the end. Now it's back on track, but it's all taking so long. So it's a matter of "let's say" "political will to make the right choices at this time," which requires a different way than in the past decade. It's no different. And we can't just say "we're gonna tear something off and we're gonna give the money," because that's not even a solution to the problem. That is a bit "soft healers"; the problem is not solved. Every time I keep in mind: do we do the good things for the people on the islands? Those people have an interest in reforming, tackling this inequality between rich and poor, having a decent social system, having a decent education and care system. There have been steps in that direction. I'm not saying nothing happened, but it's a long way from where it should be. We just need to get that tempo up. And sometimes pressure helps to get into a higher gear. So as for the question of the listener, which I believe was Mr Van Raak's question, I do not have the ambition to be the boss. If Dutch taxpayers' money is made available to countries within the Kingdom, I would like the good things to happen with it. Mr Van Raak's question on freedom of the press and Mrs Kuik's question on The Daily Herald. On that last one, I'm gonna have to keep the answer to the question. I'd like to come back to that later. It's about media, but it's a slightly different chapter. I think the freedom of the press is very important. I can easily agree with everyone on that. Citizens simply need to be able to be informed about the situation independently. I think that's generally good, too. Questions have been asked about that case in Aruba. I've answered it by now. Questions have also been asked about the situation in Curaçao. I still have to hold the answer to that. That is what I am discussing with colleagues. Mr Van Raak suggested that this element be included in subsequent instalments. I'd be happy to consider that. I am not going to promise it now, but I am also saying this in the direction of Mr Van Dam, who mentioned law enforcement. It's not that scary. When you talk about good governance, it's not just about the financial system in a narrow sense. It's about all those elements. I am prepared to take a broad look at these issues, including this. Mr Van Dam also asked if I am prepared to always provide technical assistance. That will be necessary. Honestly, the complexity of the issues is so great that we are also concerned in our own country that our best people are, of course, watching how we get out of them right now. Think about the discussion within the EU, but also about how we can help the countries. That's where our best people are. Of course, when requests are made, we will help. I think that the process of the coming months has been extremely helpful in the fact that the best people are watching this. Mr Van Dam referred to a letter from me, as I have just said, in which I would have said that the rule of law might be too far removed from the conditions we have now set for financial support. I am really willing to take a broad look at it, because in the end, when you talk about good governance and about whether countries can carry autonomy, all those elements play a role. We're gonna do that one step at a time. I also believe that the measures and conditions we have now laid down should be practicable. That is a valid point. There is no point in making a very large list and then saying: this is it and you have to do it. The steps and conditions we have now put forward are feasible. For example, we will also have to set executable conditions, including in time, for the next tranche. That does mean it has to be faster, because the traditional way doesn't work. Parliaments, governments, will have to come up with urgent legislation, possibly emergency legislation, in order to make a number of things possible. We have just talked about the situation in the Pointe Blanche prison on Saint Martin. The positive news is that, after years of talking and many prison directors and many justice ministers, the current cabinet has made proposals to include funds in the budget. That is a first step, because that means that there is political attention to it and there is also a willingness to invest in it, regardless of corona of course. But here's what's in it. A political decision has been taken, so I consider this to be positive. But there's still a lot to do. There's still a lot to do. If you're just looking at that prison, you can see that so far, apart from repairing the damage caused by the hurricane, there's a much more fundamental problem with the whole chain. Much more attention should be paid to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u148	I would nevertheless like to give the Minister the opportunity to answer the rest of the questions. Then you'll have the space to ask questions, Mr. Van Dam. I see you looking desperate. I don't know how far the Minister is to answer the questions. Almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u149	About ten more, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u150	Or eight? Well, I'm going to see Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you for giving me the floor so generously, Mr President. When it comes to prison, I don't quite understand the Secretary of State. What does he mean to say? I have expressed the wish that it should be dealt with, for example, in the next round of loans. Is he going to include that in the terms? What exactly does he mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u152	I said all these things could be taken away. I haven't said I'm gonna do it yet. We are going to look at the most appropriate measures for improving the economic situation per tranche. In any case, I have contradicted what you suggested in your contribution, that I would have said earlier that this could not be part of the package because it did not belong directly to the financial sector. As far as I am concerned, this can be taken on board, as is Mr Van Raak's point on freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u153	It is good to hear the latter because I did not take it out of the written round. I asked a specific question about this and you replied that it had to have a relationship with financial development.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u154	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u155	But then I guess the thinking has evolved on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u156	Sure. That's nice, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u157	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u158	The same applies to Mr Van Dam's questions about people applying for asylum and under what conditions they are staying there. We have, of course, had debates on this before and from the Netherlands we have also already promised support for this, also from DJI and the National Real Estate Company to Curaçao. That is where steps are being taken. To this end, the countries had never before been confronted with a peak in the influx, which also prevented their facilities from being suitable, not equipped. They're working on it now. Especially with Aruba and Curaçao we made good agreements. I have answered Mrs Kuik's question about the loans. Mrs Kuik asked how realistic it is that the countries maintain their own currency union and how stable the banks are. The central bank of Curaçao and Sint-Maarten and the central bank of Aruba have taken far-reaching measures to maintain their own currency and the fixed exchange rate with the dollar. Until now, that was also workable. As long as these measures are sustainable, it is not appropriate to give up that own currency. But there are no taboos as far as I am concerned. You have to ask yourself whether a central bank of its own is still sustainable for such small countries for the future. A lot of things have changed. Some will have changed permanently as a result of this crisis and others may return to some sort of new normal, but it will of course remain vulnerable. The negative incentives from its own central bank in the past have ensured that the necessary reforms measures have not been implemented. So it was almost also a way to continue the system that has been used for years, with all the consequences. So there are a number of questions for me, but I'm not going to speculate on them now. I am merely saying that we are going to look very strongly at the financial sector in the broad and also at the central bank, the understanding of the books and what is happening there, and that we are going to make an assessment of what is now sensible, including for the future. Of course, this will have to be done together with Curaçao, Saint Martin and Aruba, but also they have seen, certainly Curaçao in the past period with the Girobank, how vulnerable the whole system is and how everything is related; the pensions of the one are based at the bank that is in trouble. When you talk about security for the future, we really have a job there to help the countries with the knowledge we have in the Netherlands in this area. Mrs Diertens asked about food aid to undocumented people. Yeah, I'm sure that's what's gonna happen. The Red Cross is listening and we have given them the order to do so. So we don't distinguish by status from people who want to claim it. Mr Van Raak and Mrs Kuik asked whether emergency aid is conditional. That is not the case. We're gonna see how it develops and what's needed. I assume that the Red Cross, too, is now also being asked to do so with these local NGOs, because it is of course very difficult to determine how many people are dependent on this food aid and how it is going to develop over the next few years. We'll keep a close eye on that. So I can't anticipate exactly how that is going right now. Then there is Mrs Özütok's question on humanitarian aid aimed at food aid. That really goes through the Red Cross and then through local NGOs. The Red Cross will also report on its administration. I do not rule out the need to organise something else on the basis of this, but we have done it this way for the time being. Mr De Graaf went outside the confines of the debate and started talking about Bonaire. Here's what I can say. We have agreed for the Caribbean Netherlands that the cabinet is following a line similar to that of the European Netherlands for regulations that have now been drawn up. They are of course translated into the local context there, but that is the commitment. Here too, the fight against poverty is specifically targeted at the most vulnerable. It runs through the public bodies. Mrs. Diertens wondered what the exit strategy was. I'd almost say you'd better speak of an entry strategy, because you want people to come back to the islands eventually. We all do that on the basis of OMT advice. There are specific OMT opinions for the Caribbean. Precisely because healthcare remains vulnerable at a sudden peak and you do not immediately have backup and can just fall back on something, it is very important to monitor developments regarding vaccines and distributions, and to use the knowledge we gain. So does the OMT. It will advise us and the countries, in cooperation with the institutes in the countries, on appropriate measures. But of course, the pressure is enormous. Especially if you are dependent on tourism, of course you only want one thing: that this tourism sector is going to turn around again. The price is very high, there is unemployment and companies are in trouble; we realize this very well, but we also do not want to get into the situation where there is a pandemic on Curaçao or Aruba that is totally out of control, with all the consequences. So we're trying to find a balance in that. Next to Mrs Dierten's comments on health care in general and the commitment to prevention. Mr Blokhuis is picking this up at the moment. It seems to me that this pandemic has shown that these people are above average susceptible to the virus. Apart from that, if you want to control the costs of health care, you need to do more about prevention. So I can only welcome it, but I would like to refer it to Mr van Volksgezondheid. I know they're talking about it. Mrs Diertens asked about the form of the entity that will soon be established. It will mainly monitor the implementation of the conditions set and will also report to the Cabinet. The exact design is currently being worked out. I will, of course, inform you of this as soon as there is more clarity. Let me turn to Mrs Dierten's point on Rule 37. She asked: shouldn't you have a committee right now to see how you're going to fill out some things? Let me say the following. We are in a combination of still crisis and looking forward. If tens of thousands of people are unemployed, there is a crisis, with all the consequences. But we are also trying to look forward: what is sustainable for countries and their economies? A great deal has already been reported on this; a great many reports have already been produced on this subject. I think that the Curaçao growth agreement is a very good example in which these lines have already been developed. So I do not think it is appropriate at the moment to set up a committee, given the need to take a number of measures under pressure of time, at a rapid rate. Of course, we do have talks with the governments. They decide for themselves how to do that, but the frameworks are quite tight in that sense, because something will have to be done. We already have a list of issues for each country, such as sustainable public finances. That is a real problem and something must be done about it. From the reactions I get, including from the countries, I make it clear that the people in the countries themselves see very clearly that something needs to change, that this is not sustainable in the long term. So we are looking at this together with the countries. We also take advantage of the knowledge that exists, but at the moment I see no reason to set up a committee for this, given the background that we want to take steps every six weeks. We must now concentrate our efforts on implementing these measures, that is to say in the political debate in the countries, in the choices that will have to be made and in the urgent legislation that needs to be made in a number of cases. That must be the focus of attention. My experience, also in recent years, is a bit that if you spread that attention, the pace will go out. We just can't afford that. I've been talking about the exit strategy. Then there is Mrs Diertens' question as to whether some of the liquidity support can be used to deal with hospital deficits. With regard to the hospital in Curaçao, the requested second opinion on the business case has not yet been provided. The CFT has been pointing to the risks of higher operating costs for some time. That is also a point that we have often discussed here. In particular, debt support is intended to cover the gap in the country's budget created by the corona crisis and to contribute to the emergency aid package, not to eliminate old deficits. Finally. The crisis exposes a number of island structural problems. We will now have to take some necessary steps, in the interests of the people, to get out of this after the crisis. This ordeal, I also notice that people feel that way on the islands... is going to make us stronger. If we want to do so, and if each of us is making a contribution to dealing with the crisis, we will be able to do so. Here in the Netherlands, we will do everything we can to help the most vulnerable people on the islands. We do so with emergency aid and medical care, with knowledge and with loans. The political authorities in the countries can do so by taking up their responsibilities and sacrificing them at the moment. And the inhabitants of the islands can do so by complying with the measures announced to prevent the virus from spreading. Listen to the doctors, the experts. That takes a lot, I realize, but that's the only solution right now. We have already experienced larger crises in the Kingdom; Mr Bosman referred to them. I am convinced that we will succeed with the right will this time too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u159	Thank you. That's what we've come to... I see Mrs. Chicken standing there. Has there been a question left, Mrs. Chicken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u160	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u161	Well, then what? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u162	I had asked a specific question about trade unions. Maybe that's going to lead to all kinds of lawsuits. To what extent is the expectation that people will say: does the package as it is now fit within what we have lawfully agreed with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u163	I've already said something about the unions. I have focused on Curaçao, namely that I was surprised at the way the trade unions set up, against the background of the seriousness of this crisis, where tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs or are at risk of losing them. I can't imagine a discussion in which you argue in favour of paying all emoluments, even overtime allowances that were then paid extra and that kind of thing. Because it's about millions of people who, of course, have to come out of the public purse. When we talk about solidarity, there is a lot of talk about it, and I understand that, so we must also talk about internal solidarity, and we must name it. This is, of course, a matter for the countries at first instance, but I do have an opinion on it. Everyone must contribute to this, everyone must contribute to it, including the trade unions. Of course I understand the role in relations, also towards the future, but if you stand your back against the wall, if you are totally dependent on help from third parties, then I find it inappropriate to start asking whether an official gets even more than he already gets, while others simply don't have any income anymore. That is the situation. It's almost antagonistic, and I don't understand it either, because this is a crisis. After the crisis, if everything goes well again, I am happy that we are talking about it, but at the moment sacrifices are being demanded from the people and from the drivers, things are being asked that were deemed impossible six months ago. I would also ask the trade unions to accept their responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you. You also have a second term, Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u165	Mr President, I have four minutes to speak. I've got half a minute left of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u166	No, that's not how it works. If you have a minute left, that doesn't mean you can ask any more questions. You may ask your question, but that has nothing to do with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u167	Thank you. I also asked whether, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, there are still things that could not be lawful or legal, as he now states very clearly in his terms of reference to the countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u168	In general, I cannot rule out the possibility that this particular situation creates tension on certain relationships, including legal relationships. The countries are still a democratic rule of law, so parliaments can still decide, on the basis of the situation that exists, to take action, as we do here in relation to the security regions and the corona law and that kind of discussion. The countries are free to do so. We can help with that. But the toolbox will need to be expanded, I think, with a number of elements. That's got to have a legal basis. I do not rule out tension on a number of elements, but we have to solve that; there is no other choice. So the answer to your question is: that will undoubtedly play out. We should go into the depths of each country to find out where that is going, but that is something we now need to undo and what needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u169	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Özütok on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My group supports the line of the Secretary of State. I am very pleased to hear that the Secretary of State is aware of humanitarian and poignant circumstances. We must at all times prevent the cost of the crisis from reaching the most vulnerable people. I therefore think it is best that the Secretary of State regularly informs the Chamber of progress, particularly on aid after 1 June, I should like to propose. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u171	Thank you, Mrs Özütok. I now give the floor to Mr Bosman on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Secretary of State for the clear answer. The VVD also expresses its support for what the Secretary of State has proposed, because it is important to move forward now. I sometimes feel like a representative of the people of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, as if we are defending their rights more strongly than we are defending them there. But it really is the role of the states of the countries. I hope they will take a firm approach to this, because we have had a discussion about that black money that has disappeared, that has evaporated, that has not come into the real economy, but into the pockets of a number of people. I call on the leaders and statesmen of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin to take their part in finding that money, to appeal to the people who just put that money in their pocket, to find out where that money is. Bring that forward and help the people who are in need now with the money that has not lawfully come into the wrong pockets. Mr. Chairman. 10-10-10 has been a step in the history of the Netherlands. Are we all satisfied with that? Well, Mr. Van Raak certainly doesn't. Many do not, but sometimes a step has been taken better than a step not taken. Better is often the enemy of good. Again, we have learned from this and it is good that the Secretary of State and this cabinet recognise that we need to change the Statute, because it is also about trust. Trust in each other, trust in drivers. When you sit at the table with a driver who says, "Oh, if I don't do anything and the problem gets bigger and bigger, it becomes a problem for the Kingdom," it makes it very difficult to do business with each other. That's why I understand this Secretary of State, who says trust is good, control is better. That's only right. That's why you have to make hard deals, not negotiable. Let us be clear: not negotiable. The support of the VVD is present for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u173	Thank you, Mr. Bosman. Mr Van Raak has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u174	Yeah, we're people's representatives. And when we go out on the street and ask the people if we should give tens, hundreds of millions of euros to Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin, then we know the answer. And yet we do it. Still, we all do it, Chamberwide. I want to let the inhabitants of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin know that too, over our heads. We're gonna do it anyway. That's our sense of kingdom. But we are making one demand, one condition, in your interest: that money must end up with you, with the poor of Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin who need the money, and not with the little elite who for decades has enriched themselves unmercifully over your backs. Because too many people have become rich because of your poverty. That's what we want to fight. We're on your side. That's why we're making these demands, Chamberwide. It's up to the politicians now. Aruba has said yes, Curaçao and Saint Martin have not yet said yes. It's your choice. Otherwise, we will find another way to help our brothers and sisters in the Kingdom. Then we'll go around you. We're done with that. It's yes or no. That is what I say to the Secretary of State: it is yes or no. It's not a "yes, but" or "yes, if." It's yes or no. I am curious to hear about the reaction of St.Maarten and Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr. Van Raak. I now give the floor to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had a good debate on supplementary budgets. It's a bit of a realpolitik: it's what it is. Sometimes reality is stripped of all kinds of warm feelings and ambitions and it is just what is needed at that time in that situation. Mr. Chairman. I have argued before that I see the ties with the countries of the Kingdom as a family union: brothers and sisters. Perhaps I have a slightly different approach to this from Mr Van Raak, but I also speak of brothers and sisters. Then you come to each other's birthdays and to each other's funerals. You share love and suffering with each other, but you tell each other out of love also the truth unsalted, at least that's the case in my family, to tell you how to do better in the world. That's how I see this debate. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. I have one motion. I don't have it so much because I don't think the Secretary of State is gonna do it, but it is because this has been going on for years. I actually want to give him the backup from the Parliament to do it. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, as witnessed by the repeated reports of the Progress Committee and the Law Enforcement Board, the quality and capacity of the Sint-Maarten prison is well below current humanitarian and human law standards;]] [[Considering that by letter of 5 April 2019 (for the years 2019 and 2020) the State Secretary made a requirement for liquidity support to the State of Saint Martin as regards detention capacity;]] [[Whereas it is not possible to see why other conditions for liquidity support, which have already been laid down, are now maintained as a condition and not the previously formulated condition with regard to detention capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to include detention capacity as a condition in any subsequent liquidity request from the State of Saint Martin in the provision of subsequent financial support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Dam, Bosman and Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35443-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u177	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. A number of things have been said very clearly. Emergency aid remains without conditions, whatever Curaçao and Saint Martin decide, because we just want to help the most vulnerable when it comes to food, when it comes to care, when it comes to medicine. Thank you for that. I have also heard him say very clearly: I set very harsh conditions for this loan, but when we work together in a cooperative, good way, a loan can always become a gift. It is for the future, but I think it is important to point that out. Finally, Mr President. Now, of course, it is mainly about what Curaçao and Saint Martin do. I've been able to see their letters for a while. I can see where the pain is, too. I can also see where the resistance is. He's not just in politics. It's also in the institutions and the way in which you've shaped countries in a long time. However, I would like to express the wish that we can find each other fairly and work constructively together, because these reforms are necessary for the future, debt is enormous and structural reforms are needed. That is what I would like to give to the inhabitants of Curaçao, St.Maarten and Aruba, so that we can meet again quickly on the Christoffelberg as friends.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u178	I thought: those are such fine words that Mr Bosman would like to confirm that. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u179	Those are beautiful words. That's how I know Mrs. Chicken, of course. But, Mrs. Chicken does point out that we need to see how we can get out together. In my view, the agreement was here, at least it was the ruling of this Secretary of State, 'this is it, and otherwise it is not; it is not negotiable'. Of course there are all kinds of institutions that are difficult or find it difficult, but so do we in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u180	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u181	The democratic content of the security regions is very limited, but it is being done. We're all doing it neatly. Legislation, emergency legislation: let's just do it. It's all done. So you can assume that this can also be expected from the countries. Does Mrs. Chicken agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u182	Just peeling off. Firstly, I am asked: do I support a loan to the ABC countries as it now stands? Yeah, I'll back that up. Two: am I talking about what Curaçao and Saint Martin do? No. Three: do I read in their letters and motions that they want to agree in principle, but that there are some concerns? That's what I read. Can I tell you all about it? No. So that's what the Secretary of State will have to do. But I do believe that where there is a will, there is a law. And that is what I read in it, but in the end that judgment is up to the Secretary of State and not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I need to think about your proverbial gift: where there is a will, there is a law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u184	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u185	You said "where there is a will, there is a law," but it is: where there is a will, there is a way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u186	I like this one better!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u187	But that's typical Mrs. Chicken. Thank you. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Can't lie in the cemetery and won't lie next to it." That's one of the ones my mom gave me. Here's to it. I think that, in this crisis, we should look above all at the opportunities we have. Nor is it about what we need to do now, and what the Secretary of State is very committed to, not happening now; it has to be done, there must be steps taken. But I also think in and-and-options. Hence this motion. It is not meant to create a slow, rigid body, to slow down, but precisely to be able to take some more steps not only financially, but also in terms of content. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the corona crisis for Aruba, Curaçao and Saint Martin has very profound medical, economic, social and financial implications;]] [[Whereas it is important that the countries of the Kingdom jointly consider the measures necessary to deal with this crisis in the medium and long term;]] [[Whereas, pursuant to Article 37 of the Statute for the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Netherlands, Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, consultations will take place as far as possible on all matters involving the interests of two or more of the countries;]] [[Whereas special representatives may be appointed and joint bodies may be set up for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, to set up a joint committee to inform and advise the National Council of Ministers on the measures to be taken on the islands in relation to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35443-5]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u189	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. The last motion is copied and distributed, but I assume the Secretary of State has listened; I even saw him take notes. I think he can answer right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thanks to the members for their input. In the direction of Mrs Özütok, I would like to say that whenever there is a tranche in which we will follow this system, I will, of course, inform the Chamber. This also applies, of course, to what I had promised earlier, for example, the formation of the entity, but also when the end would be in sight of the contribution we have made to humanitarian aid and we are considering the follow-up to it. I'm telling you. I would also like to thank Members for their support for this line. In fact, I would like to join with a number of speakers who have said that we are doing this in solidarity and solidarity with the inhabitants of the whole Kingdom. That's why we're doing this. Because this is the only thing you can do right now, no matter how hard that is. I will not hide the fact that, of course, this requires a lot of courage and effort, and in some places also absorption power, where things that have been common for years will now have to be adapted with the aim of eventually getting a country that is resilient and can also fulfil those autonomous tasks. Mr Van Raak said that it is yes or no and not 'yes, if'. I thought he formulated that very nicely. Mrs. Kuik also asked about the letters. Apparently Mrs. Kuik has already seen the letter from Saint Martin to me, which I have not yet seen. After all, we didn't suspend, so I went straight ahead. So I don't know what it says either. I do know that Sint-Maarten has already withdrawn that letter and that there will be a new one. But I don't know what's in there. So I'm gonna have to take a look at that. I don't know which version Mrs. Kicken saw either. I'm going to judge it. As Mrs Kuik rightly said, I am authorized by the National Council of Ministers to do so. I will judge that to the best of my conscience. Mr Van Dam asked the government in his motion for a resolution on item No. 4 to involve the detention capacity as a condition in the provision of subsequent financial support in any subsequent liquidity request of the country of Saint Martin. I have indicated to Mr Van Dam that I am not ruling out, even more so, that I can imagine, even in view of the previous conditions that we have attached to liquidity support, that this can play a role in one of the tranches; I do not know which one. I'm not sure this is gonna happen, but I'm definitely gonna look into that. If I may read the operative part in this way, I can leave the judgment on this motion to the Chamber. Mrs. Kuik spoke of the Christoffelberg. I'm gonna have to correct that. In the good tradition of Mrs. Diertens it is St. Christopher's Mountain. That is just as important to mention, because that statement by Mrs Diertens has already told me and my grandmother has told me. Saint Christopher is the patron saint of travelers, as you know. It is someone who can be called in case of emergency, so I think that the metaphor of Saint Christopher is quite right at the moment. Calling is one thing, but you're gonna have to do something yourself. I think that's what we all have to do right now, in collectivity. Finally, the motion in part No. 5 by Mrs Diertens, in which the government is invited, in consultation with Aruba, Curaçao and Sint-Maarten, to set up a joint committee to inform the National Council of Ministers and advise on the measures to be taken on the islands in relation to the corona crisis. I have already said that I do not see any need for this at the moment. It is of course the case that the authorized ministers in the National Council of Ministers represent the countries. In the discussions I myself have with the prime ministers, they also give their views on the proposed plans for the coming period. We have very strongly asked governments to come up with proposals themselves in the next instalments to see how we can overcome this crisis. I indicated earlier that I do not have such good experiences with committees and the time that we do not actually have. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u191	As I indicated, it's not about slowing it down either. But I just think that it will be so much work later, that a great deal must actually be done and action must also be taken. You often say: I deliver terms and conditions, and I would like to do so, but there is a lack of implementation power, of decisiveness, of perseverance. This is also from the Small Islands report, major challenges, which have just appeared. That is my motivation to add more to that. It's not just about financial control. I'm not saying, here's a bag of money; figure it out. The question here is how do we involve other than politicians in order to get the economy and health care back on track? I'd like to hold my motion, but that's the intention of this motion. It is not the intention to delay and put those responsibilities somewhere else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u192	You've made that clear, Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u193	That is by no means your intention; so do I. I know you too well. I think your intention is very noble. Only the result of this committee will be that there will be delays. I would just like to point out the growth agreement. The Committee on Progress, the joint committee that we have set up for this purpose, also comes to the conclusion that things will simply have to happen, at the Bureau and in Parliament. Decisions will have to be taken in the Council of Ministers. If they're not taken, you can monitor and then you can talk about it, but it won't go any faster. That is my concern and that is why I must also discourage the motion, not because I would doubt Mrs Diertens' intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u194	At the request of Mrs Diertens, I propose her motion (35443, No. 5) to be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u195	Yes. Could the Secretary of State also share with us the letters sent by Curaçao and Saint Martin in the final version?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u196	I can always tell you which letters I send myself. I can see at least one minister here. If he has no objection to the letter from Curaçao being sent to the Chamber, that does not seem to me to be a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u197	Fine, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-3.u198	That concludes this debate. We will vote next Tuesday on the supplementary budget and on one motion tabled. I would like to thank the Secretary of State and thank the authorised Minister of Curaçao, Mr Beginninga, who is in the Chair's lodge. I thank the Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting until 3 p.m.
