ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u1	We now come to the second term from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u2	I give the floor to Mr Arbouw. May I ask Members to exercise some silence? And may I ask Mr Arbouw to wait a little longer? His speaking time is not yet up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u3	I wish Members a pleasant evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u4	With your permission, I will give Mr Arbouw the floor again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u5	Mr President, it is just the way you look at it. You get the floor and two thirds of the room leaves...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. As far as I am concerned, she has dealt with all the issues raised by the VVD, so thank you again. We certainly welcome the independent committee that is going to examine the VTH system. And we certainly welcome the Minister's commitment to sharing annual reporting with the Chambers on the basis of the monitoring results. Mr. Chairman. As I pointed out in my first period of interruption, the VVD Group is still looking carefully at the consequences of the opinion of the World Health Organisation, particularly if this means that more stringent regulation of municipalities will result. However, that will be discussed in a separate section, so we will certainly discuss this later. For the rest, the VVD Group is satisfied with the answer given by the Minister. I will advise my group to agree to the Supplementary Act sound. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u7	Thank you, Mr. Arbouw. I call Mr Rietkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. I have three points. The first concerns the implementation aspect of authorisation, enforcement and monitoring. I believe that the CDA Group has indicated that it is in favour of continuous improvement. We noticed the Minister's recognition in this respect. We understand that the specific independent committee is a different committee from the committee that will report annually. This other committee will review the VTH system. We will also assess in the progress letter on the basis of the commitment at the KB how the Secretary of State implements this and how firm, robust and durable this gets hands and feet. The second point concerns the accumulation of noise. The Minister stated in her replies that improvements were possible within the levels. I did not interrupt because I would like to ask for an explanation of this in the second period. What did the Minister mean by that? As a consequence, in the event of interruption, I asked whether the legal standards for noise and external safety risks in the Aviation Act weigh as much as those of other sectors of the Environment Act. The Minister replied that noise standards are simply transferred into the Environment Act, but I would like to ask, on behalf of the CDA Group, to reflect on how that weighting is going. Is it equally heavy or are there differences between them? I am not concerned with technology; I am concerned with policy considerations. What weighs heavier? Finally, the CDA addresses its forthcoming issue of maintaining the province's competence with regard to noise production ceilings on industrial sites of regional importance, which often also concerns several municipalities. So they're regional industrial sites. The Minister's reply was yet another answer: VNG and IPO are still in consultation. Well, they've been in consultation for a while. See the motion that the CDA is tabling with other groups as a support to show and get out of it. Certainly also because the Minister does not object to the substance of the request, we think. "The Chamber, heard the debate..." Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u9	You want to file a motion, I think?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u10	Yeah, I'm told I'll have to read it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u11	No, if you submit the motion, I'll read it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u12	That is good, because I had taken account of my speaking time so that I had time to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u13	Yeah, she'll keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u14	Yes. The President shall: Mr Rietkerk, Mr Van Gurp, Mr Kluit, Mr Essers and Mr Dessing proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, under current law, provinces are competent, under the Noise Act, to designate industrial sites of regional importance in the provincial regulation;]] [[Whereas this competence of Provincial States does not return under the Environmental Law;]] [[Whereas under the Environmental Act (Article 2.11a), although it is possible for the Provincial Council to request that noise production ceilings be set around industrial sites, this is not the same and is not in line with the starting point for joining the existing administrative division of labour;]] [[Whereas existing practice has shown that it is efficient and effective for the provinces to have independent competence because of the importance of the municipality;]] [[Whereas the Environment Act does not allow the local authorities to take more effective and effective action in the decision-making of industrial sites of regional interest (as designated in the environmental regulation);]] [[Whereas the scheme increases the burden on the municipalities;]] [[Whereas in the future it will continue to be more efficient and effective to establish and manage noise production ceilings for industrial sites of regional importance, especially those areas where the municipal boundaries are exceeded;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the Supplementary Act sound that provinces remain competent to designate industrial sites of regional importance in their environmental regulation, including the power to amend and establish and comply with noise production ceilings for those areas,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35054-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I just want to sum up some of the things I've heard the Minister say. I have a rather less good experience with letters, but maybe we can do it verbally. I have heard the Minister say that individual permits can still be maintained when we talk about noise production ceilings at industrial sites. I'll just have to write that down. Let's talk about the nesting noise. I will keep going on for a while anyway, because this is exactly the point we've been working on for years, which we don't get out of and which I expect to be fussed with. So today we can make that clear to all those who are involved. The Minister referred to existing rights, but this only applies if there are existing rights in the current situation, with the limitation thus including the quays and the ships building them. So if the limit is ahead of the quay, there are no existing rights, because then they will still have to be extended. The minister says they belong within the sound production ceilings. Then either that noise production ceiling should be raised or noise should be saved somewhere. I think that's the two flavors. Existing rights I understand that but if it is not authorised now, there are no existing rights either. I would like an answer from the Minister in his keenness, because we can now give some clarity to those who have to work with it. I am not so much concerned with this case in Schiedam, but I am concerned with the wider problem. This is true on more points. Mr. Chairman. I have also heard the Minister say that the Central Supply of Sound Data is ready and is going to work properly at the end of the year. My question is then when the DSO should be filled, because I actually think that the situation with these two side by side should be as short as possible. Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister talk about WHO standards on a regular basis. In my practice, I have always learned that the WTO is about targets and that you are trying to get as close to them as possible. The WHO does not set a standard. It only sets targets for health purposes. I'd like some clarification from the Minister. In my opinion, the aim must always be to make it as healthy as possible for residents. The aim of approaching WTO targets as closely as possible is something other than applying WTO standards, which, I believe, do not exist. Mr. Chairman. The story of Mr Rietkerk. That was about industrial sites, provincial versus municipalities. Could it lead to cost savings by saying that we are not going to tear the whole thing apart and organise it all in a different way? Isn't there still a substantial cost savings if we just leave the regional industrial sites in the provinces? Then we don't have to organize the whole story with the municipalities. That only cares about a lot of money. Maybe that's part of the conversations and one of the arguments. I've never experienced it being said, do you want those powers? "No, you do it." That's usually about money. Maybe this could be a subject, but I'd like to give it as a suggestion. Mr. Chairman. I am not yet reassured about the ceilings in relation to innovation and best available techniques in terms of industrial sites. The Minister has said that it is a choice of the competent authority, but I think that we are organising competition on this point. Will Limburg compete with Rotterdam or Groningen? Is that gonna be part of the competition? Can it be said: with us you get as much sound space as possible and we put the environmental values a little behind? It could be. We see it all the time. I always hear industry asking for a level playing field. So the question is whether that could happen. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to make one point that I am not entirely reassured about: the equality of the citizens' arms versus the companies. The Minister said that there is always a window of the Environment Service between which the citizen is going to help. Then you'll have to find your way everywhere. I just had a question about the DSO and the Central Supply of Sound Data. How are those citizens, for whom it is all very complicated, who look in the DSO and find nothing, then lead to where they can find something, the Central Supply of Sound Data? I would like another answer from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Janssen. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u17	Thank you, Minister, for answering all the questions. For D66 in particular, the following answers and commitments are important. All noise levels determined by competent authorities fit within frameworks based on health effects. The effects of peak noises on health during the day are taken into account in the implementation of the Kröger/Smeulders motion, I understood the Minister. This is a motion which specifically involves the World Health Organisation's investigation. That is an important commitment for us. With regard to the accumulation of noise, I understood from the Minister that there will be a supplementary system for cumulation which will be consulted this spring. Noise caused by railways is part of this accumulation. A supplementary arrangement cumulation is ready before the Environmental Act enters into force. An independent committee will be set up specifically to examine the licensing, monitoring and enforcement process. Finally, in addition to monitoring by the Environment Act, RIVM will monitor separately the effects of noise standards on citizens. These are important commitments for us. There won't be any leftover questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. I call Mr Verkerk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u19	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answers to the questions and also for the many commitments she has made. I would like to thank the Minister very much for confirming that the Supplementary Act will also be accompanied by an independent evaluation committee and that attention will be paid to the protection of citizens and the balance between use and administration. On the point raised by Mr Crone and I in relation to the electrification of cars, the Minister was so positive that we have seen this as a commitment that you will come up with a policy where you may want to lower the noise ceilings. Thank you very much for that. And if I'm wrong, I'd like to hear it. There are two other points where there is still a question. I asked that, in the evaluation of the ILT report, we examine how officials experience the complexity. Why did I ask that question? Not purely because you have to, but if you do research on it and you make it discussable, then the perception also changes. That's the relationship with culture again. That was the deeper background. The second point concerns regional industrial sites. I understand the Minister is in conversation with the different domes. It may be that there is not one true answer to this and there are less true answers to it. So I invite the Minister to look very carefully in that conversation where that problem really lies, and what that would mean for legislation. Furthermore, I look forward to the Minister's reply to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u20	Thank you, Mr Verkerk. I call Mr Crone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u21	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister for the answers, which have clarified a great deal. My group has a few more questions and comments. Good to stress that, especially for this part of the sound, the supplemental laws are an improvement, both in terms of content and participation. Participation, of course, partly because of the motion that has just been adopted. Thank you all for that. But above all because noise must now count in any form of authorisation, initiative plans, environmental plans and what is more. So sound isn't just hanging around anymore. The citizens themselves will pay the most attention to the fact that they can participate from the outset, in the good sense of the word participation, when it comes to noise. At the same time, the national standards - that is my second point - remain firmly in place. Some standards become even tighter than they are now and more insightful. I really think that's a win. They remain tight, one may differ in the limit values and hardly over them, and if it is to be, then there must be strict rules for that. And the rules of instruction will also help us and the communities to deal with this problem in a similar way. It is important in relation to national standards that the Minister has repeated that cumulation counts, including aviation. So now it's going to be noise nuisance as we know it, plus aviation. Citizens can really get back to that point. I asked another question about the enforcement hole. For people now unlucky because there has been too much growth in noise in their environment, even schemes that the Empire pays for. I think it is very important for the enforcement hole to be filled. Mr Janssen and I have also talked a lot about dealing with industrial sites. We often mention the port area, and I mention the recent statements of the Council of State, which are not the basis of this law but of other laws. The Minister has promised that she will look into it. In the event of interruption, I asked whether this could be done with the Minister for Economic Affairs. Because it is not just the side that Mr Janssen has highlighted that we need new noise permits? It is also a question of whether it is going to cost jobs. I now hear that some port-based companies will literally be unable to get the ship to the docks from tomorrow. I hope the Minister can say that we will be able to say in the shortest possible time, I would say almost one week, but perhaps two is better, I am generously informed whether this really is a problem and whether it can be resolved. This is probably where the Council of State followed the law, so I'm not blaming the Council of State. But maybe there's something wrong with our regulations. In addition to sound space, this can cost jobs. Then there is the issue of competence. Of course, municipalities involved are Schiedam and Rotterdam are referred to as "beneficiary" but perhaps also provinces. I think that Mr Rietkerk of the CDA is going too far by shouting already: let the province take the lead again in cross-border industrial areas. That undermines the philosophy of the law. I consider it too early in the procedure, because the Minister said that they are in agreement with each other. In terms of content, I'm more on some sort of intermediate line. The county can monitor the trial. Sometimes she sits at the table as a license holder, but if she isn't, at least as a trial guardian. With this they can force the municipalities to get out with each other. If they don't work out, you can always say, "Who's gonna do it?" But to give it to the provinces, contrary to the spirit of the law, I'm going too fast. Let them consult together first. I'd say, Mr. Rietkerk, hold the motion. Maybe we can reach out to you later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u22	Mr Rietkerk would like to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u23	I have a very clear question for Mr Crone. It would be nice if there were consultations on the polder model of the law and then municipalities and provinces would come to the conclusion that the municipalities would not come out of it. The law then states that the city council must take a decision to lay it down with the province. That'll make it a little easier. Then the consultation that Mr Crone is proposing may lead to that conclusion, but in that case the law must give you the power to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u24	I understand from the Minister that the domes are still in discussion with the Minister to resolve this. I come from urban and regional thinking. I was president of the G40. Then you often have that municipalities are best in agreement, but two aren't. Then I'd rather you come up with a procedural solution that you have the right to vote and those two remaining small municipalities can overrule than tell the county to do it. Then you keep the spirit of the law. The municipalities decide. They almost always can. And then you shouldn't suddenly say: in all cases, the province is about it. That's the downside of your motion. It's the old situation right away. That's too fast for me. I wouldn't even want that as a last resort at this point. I welcome Mr Verkerk's commitment to happy driving, which will be much quieter. But I am disappointed that nothing has yet been promised about maintaining everything that annoys people so much: mopeds, motorcycles and other noise mobility, moreover, the other source policy. I hope that you will promise to take a closer look at this together with your colleagues, because I think you have a quick win for the citizens and for the noise policy. Finally, I am also pleased that others have also said that the evaluation will not take place in five years' time, but that there will be continuous monitoring. I would remind you of the Notes Committee. We remember Mr Noten here. He has accompanied a committee on the transition of the social domain. That was a fine commission with a learning function in particular: why does it go wrong there and what do you learn from someone else? Of course, it was independent. So I'd say call Han Noten or someone else. I'm sure you'll be fine. On balance, we have moved forward in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u25	Thank you, Mr Crone. I call Mr Van Gurp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u26	Mr. Chairman. Very short. A few points. We have had a brief debate, and that was only pars pro toto..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Minister told a story and said: I hope that is enlightening. It clarified, but it clarified exactly that what I feared was true, namely that it is clearly better for health...... everyone agrees to include the obligation to a silent façade, but that it is exchanged for the sake of the systematic, decentralised unless, for the obvious lesser, namely a duty of motivation not to do so. That's exactly the opposite world. That is the crux of our concern on more points of this law. That's one. Secondly, on aviation. I must honestly say that the Minister's pace of speech is too high and that my understanding is slow. I hope I understood it all correctly, but I understood that for aviation it is in all kinds of possible ways in the Supplementary Decision noise Environmental Act, except in the way we would like it to be. It's in there for environmental visions. It plays a role in this, of course. It's in there for the inner values. However, it is not a hard limit in which the noise is ceilinged, as is the case for all other sectors of activity and social sectors in the context of this law. There it is not within the framework of another law which is much more flexible. We're disappointed. In that respect, I do not think you have any good news for the people who are fighting for it. It might still be in a supplemental law. That is a third point. I have said it before: in everything we are not really happy with, what we are not satisfied with or what we are concerned about, you can say that there will be a supplement law or an evaluation or that you will monitor it, but as far as I am concerned we must have the important things arranged in front. That's better than fixing it afterwards. In any case, we are not satisfied on that point. Maybe one more comment. We were talking about WHO targets. Mr Janssen is right: the VVD and we both said something about that, but perhaps that was the opposite, I understand now. If I understand Mr Arbouw correctly, he says: if those targets are added, then we can't do anything about inner-city redevelopment, so we have to be careful with that. Our intention is different. If we have these targets, we shall be talking about them, and we shall have to deal with them in particular. That's complicated indeed. There must therefore be an impetus for innovation in inner urban development, but we must not say: we do not do them at all, because it is not a good time; it is a pity for health. It is the World Health Organization. Mr. Chairman. Although there are also good things in the law, there are still too many questions to be asked to advise my group to vote in favour. So I advise her to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u27	Maybe I can come back to Mr Van Gurp's last words. My concern is the following. If you already limit the room for balancing sound locally by entering Swung-2 and if you tighten the sound rules again, that actually means that you can't do that much more locally. That was a bit of the sum total, where you think: we have now found a balance. We totally agree with that, but be careful that these additional demands from the WHO's health advice do not end up in an unworkable situation. That's the pinpointing. How to solve that is question two. It is really important for inner-city development that we look at it now. Otherwise you get a Pfas 2.0, so to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u28	I understand you very well. Air quality is basically the same thing. It's exciting; I don't deny that for a moment. I've been working on inner urban development for half a lifetime, so you don't have to worry that I wouldn't see the importance. However, it cannot be that if the World Health Organisation sets a limit as a target, it is not even so hard to say: let us not look at it, because it really does not suit us. We need to use all the creativity we have in the house for a while. Then you're gonna build with prefab on the construction site instead of in the city. Then you're gonna work with silent machines and so on. That's our plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u29	Maybe one last question. Mr Van Gurp says he considers inner-city development to be very important, especially with the task we now have. Does he think that local tailor-made work and ultimately local laying down the responsibility to come to creative solutions should be increased?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u30	Yes, but within clear, centrally-defined standards, this is exactly what the debate is about today, and it is all about tailor-made work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. Van Gurp. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the second term? That is not the case. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Members for the supplementary questions and for the clarifications they have sometimes asked for at a point they had already addressed in the first period. First of all, Mr Rietkerk asked about the accumulation of internal values and the weighing of these different standards. All relevant noise sources shall be taken into account when checking indoor levels. The addition is mandatory when checking against the standards. He's actually asking about the weighting. The current standards for aviation will continue to apply in full upon review. At the same time, standards also apply to other sources. There is therefore no heavier weighing of the one or the lighter weighing of the other. It's about the accumulation. You'll have to add up to see if it stays within the standards. One or the other is not weighed heavier or less heavily, that is actually the answer to his question. Then Mr Crone asked for a commitment to keep harder on mopeds. If mopeds don't follow the rules, the police can intervene. The priorities of the police are, of course, defined in the triangle in the region, as Mr Crone knows even better than I do. I am happy to raise this point in the context of all the discussions we have with VNG. 'Cause when we're talking peak noise, I think we've got one here. Then the CDA asked about the sound production ceilings. A motion has been tabled on that. I have given the IPO and the VNG the opportunity to have a joint discussion on this first and to make a joint choice. The motion in which such a choice is enforced will then interfere with that decentralised process, and I would regret that. If the domes come together in the short term to decide that this indeed needs to be adapted, I can quickly anchor it in the law. I would actually like to suggest to Mr Rietkerk that we hold the motion for a resolution for the moment. I will inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the progress of talks with the domes so that you can learn about them and then weigh them or, considering everything, also the balance that the domes find in them between the interests outlined by both the Labour Party and Mr Rietkerk, which have been taken into account to a good extent. If not, it can always be included in the IenW Collecting Act to change points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u33	I have one more question before I can comment on the Minister's suggestion. It is striking that the system of the law, which I am also saying to Mr Crone, indicates that we would transfer powers and tasks politically neutrally. On that one point, it is not politically neutral, because now the province has jurisdiction, take the large Eemsmond area with a number of municipalities and the province as an example; that is very complicated. So now it's in the province and in this proposal it's gone to the municipality. Is that observation correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u34	Yeah, that's right. This is done in line with the system of the law, "decentral, unless," to lay it down with the municipality in principle. It is consistent with the system of the law, but it is a deviation from how it was. And that is why it is perhaps a good thing that both domes have a constructive discussion about this. I share the concerns expressed by Mr Rietkerk. But that is why I think it is appropriate, while this process is still going on, to give the domes a chance to come to an agreement. I would like to share that assessment with the Chamber, and then the Chamber can decide whether it wishes to put the motion to the vote. The legal anchoring can then be arranged, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u35	Then may I ask the Minister when the domes are out? What is the planning, because this procedure has been going on for a while? In this way, as proposers of the motion, we can take that into account and, if possible, hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u36	This is an agreement that we made during the last administrative consultation, so this consultation is only relatively short. I imagine we'll let the Chamber know when. I will then have to discuss with the domes how their conversations are going and when they think they can give a blow to that. So I'd like to let the Chamber know. I wouldn't dare answer this in my head; then I might make a promise that I can't deliver on the agendas of others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u37	I understand. Finally, do you have any comments on the substance of the request in the operative part of the motion? That is also important when it comes to whether or not to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u38	I see there are pros and cons. I have just said that I understand Mr Rietkerk's contribution to this. I think it is also good to weigh this against what the municipalities bring into it. But I certainly also understand Mr Rietkerk's approach. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the SP, who asked a few more questions. I'll see if I've answered all the other questions by now. I think so. Mr Janssen asked me to repeat once again whether individual licences could still be retained. The answer to that is yes. Then, in the order of his questions, he asked for nest sound. If not previously taken, the nesting noise will be added to the existing permit when the Gpps are first established or modified. So you get a higher sound production ceiling. But if there's room under the gpps, then it can just be taken in there. So it's not always either shutting down or raising the sound production ceilings, there may also be room for that nest noise under the existing sound production ceilings. That will of course depend on the location, the extent to which that nest sound is present and the space that is under the sound production ceilings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u39	But let me ask you about the limit values. If you have a limit value and you say "it can't go up here," does it get stuck there? After all, you will have to go down somewhere else, because I assume that health will also remain normal in terms of limit values.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u40	Those limits have, of course, been set. And it's also exactly what we discussed last week -- what the steps are when you get to those limit values. Those steps, of course, must simply be completed. The Labour Party has also been asked to do so, so I should like to reply immediately to the question whether there are any major consequences for the Chamber. The question concerns the interpretation of existing legislation. In our knowledge, that ruling has no direct impact on existing permits. But Mr Crone's question is actually the mirror of the SP's question: is there enough room, is there still room for action? I would be happy to look into this together with the Minister of EZK. I can then inform the Chamber in more detail by letter. I go back to Mr Janssen: how do citizens get information? The regulation is accessed through the DSO, and there it also unlocks what applies at this location. So that is, of course, more accessible than the current situation, in which it is also complicated. In addition, there will be a public campaign to educate people about the Environment Act and the DSO. And of course, the municipality remains an important point of contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u41	But the point is that the DSO is not yet filled with sound data. My question was as follows. The Minister said that at the end of the year the Central Provision for Noise Data will be ready. My question is: when is the DSO going to be filled? Because the minister is now referring to the DSO, but there's nothing in it yet. When is that going to be filled, so that these two will not last longer than strictly necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u42	That was indeed the question, I remember. In particular, I had noted the question of coexistence as short as possible. I think it's in the second part, so it's in the enlargement. I do not know exactly what the plan is for this, but I would be happy to let Mr Janssen know about it. I share his intention to allow things to exist alongside each other as short as possible. We are also waiting for a BIT opinion on certain enlargement issues, and the care to be taken in doing so. The intention is that we want to unlock it as much as possible and as easily as possible through the DSO. I share that commitment with Mr Janssen. In the letter that comes to the Chamber, we will clarify some of the planning. Mr Janssen also asked what happens at industrial sites if innovation leads to less noise. When the noise of the industry decreases, the competent authority, whether it can or should lead to lower noise production ceilings, decides whether there is room for companies to grow further or perhaps to other companies to settle within such a same room for noise production ceilings. This depends on local conditions and it may also vary on a case-by-case basis. That's up to the competent authority. Mr Janssen also referred to WTO targets rather than standards. He is absolutely right: I should have said so. I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for their second term. Then the question of the Christian Union about how officials experience the complexity and whether we want to make it negotiable, including as part of cultural change. I think that is absolutely a good point. I will also discuss the ILT report with the provinces and municipalities. The evaluation shall also take into account the effectiveness and impact of the law in practice. It is indeed about how civil servants experience this law in practice. Because it is precisely in the application that you may be able to come up with points that you say: in order for it to work properly and as intended, we may have to offer additional help, adapt something on points or offer a further hand-out. The operation in practice is therefore certainly an important element. Thank you for bringing this point to your attention again. You asked that, in the discussion with the domes on where responsibility should lie for regional industrial sites, you should look carefully at where the problem really lies and take this into account when considering where it is best to invest. I am, of course, willing to do so. Mr Verkerk also asked whether the noise production ceilings could be reduced if cars became quieter. I believe that this was a joint effort by the Labour Party and Mr Verkerk. Electric cars do indeed give sound gains at lower speeds. We have sound production ceilings back on the busier roads, because for the low-speed roads we have the basic noise emission. On the busy roads the tyre sound appears to be dominant. We hope, of course, for innovation and for quieter links, but the question of reducing the GPPs needs to be looked at on a case-by-case basis. As I said earlier, there is a report every five years in the context of the European directive, so it can be taken into account. I have already answered the question of the Labour Party. I will discuss that and the point of the mopeds with the Minister of EZK. Then GroenLinks' question about the sound-low façade. You say, "Now there's no obligation." But there's gonna be a motivational obligation later. He's not here right now. I have to say that it does not yet fully meet the wishes of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, but I must also note that it is a step forward in comparison with the current situation. Perhaps that is a slight consolation for you, but it really is an improvement and a step in the right direction. Who knows, it could still be part of the trade-off for you. Do you vote for a step in the right direction? Or do you say leave it as it is? For aviation there are hard ceilings for noise. They are listed in airport decisions under the Aviation Act. So that's not in the Environment Act, but it's settled. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u43	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-11-eerstekamer-16.u44	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote on the bill next week. Finally, I propose that we vote next week on the motion tabled.
