ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let me now turn to the third question. It belongs to Mrs Den Boer on behalf of D66 to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister. The question is about dealing in body parts. Mrs. Den Boer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. When I watched the broadcast of Nieuwsuur last Thursday, I was very surprised. A company had a cheap alternative to a funeral on offer. People could offer their bodies to science, saving next of kin costs. What exactly happens to the bodies is unknown. However, it is known that the bodies are stored in a morgue near Schiphol Airport, after which the company resells bodies abroad. This sounds too bizarre for words, doesn't it? First of all, I ask the Minister: is this legal? Is it true that this is legally a grey area? Does he consider this practice desirable? D66 would like companies to communicate transparently about what happens to your body after you die. It can't be that next of kin now have no idea where their loved one's body is. How does the Minister feel about this? Donating to science in the Netherlands is one of three possibilities for a funeral. We have already discussed the lack of supervision of the funeral industry in the Chamber. Minister De Jonge, who is about donation of body parts, comes up with a law on rules in this practice. Does the Minister of the Interior also see a role for himself here and, if so, which one?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Mrs Den Boer for the questions on this sensitive subject. There's a lot going on about death, about bodily remains, about corpses and how you deal with them. As far as the delivery of the corpse itself is concerned, this is first and foremost the case in the Coronation Act. The Body Material Control Act, which is indeed the responsibility of the Minister of VWS, sees the way in which body material may be handled. The Nieuwsuur programme has also paid attention to this. I would like to point out that it is a good thing that people can also freely choose to make their bodies available to science. This is good for science and for scientific development. It is ultimately for everyone's well-being, because health care is taking steps forward. But promoting this as a kind of cheap alternative to a funeral is, of course, something we do not want. We have made a lot of demands in the Coroner's Act on how a funeral can be arranged. We've arranged in the Wzl how to handle body material. The way in which this is happening here at least sheds the thoughts that Mrs Den Boer, I think, and also we ourselves have on how to do that. This means that, as far as I can tell, the company is not in breach of the laws we have, but that the legislation on this issue is not adequate and not up to date. That is precisely the reason why we have announced that there will be an amendment to the Coronation Law, along with an amendment to the Body Material Control Act. Further rules will be laid down for the way in which permission is given to cooperate in such a way of the body's destiny, as well as for fees that can be paid for costs incurred, for example, by people who offer the body. So I agree with Mrs Den Boer that the way in which that happens here is at least one way that I wonder if you should want to. The answer is actually no. You shouldn't want that. It can't be that we're going to promote people in a certain category to get a commercial profit out of this. Otherwise, this is the procedure in the Netherlands where scientific institutes such as academic hospitals use bodies that have been made available to science.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u5	I would nevertheless like to continue on a number of points which the Minister mentions. We are dealing here with a new practice, which is not very well known. Information about a funeral is of great importance for a dignified farewell. Does the Minister also see a task for himself with regard to information on this matter? Does he agree with me that donors should be informed about the commercial goals of a company that deals in body parts? It is quite remarkable that a commercial company advertises with a budget-saving funeral and then makes money from body parts. In general, a human body must not be earned. I'd say that applies to the deceased, too. Do you agree with me that this company is already looking for the boundaries of the law? Are you and your colleague De Jonge going to do something about this? People who don't have too much to spend can easily opt for this option. The company operates in legal shady territory. You can't make money on the human body. That is not only legally dark, but also ethically incorrect. How does the Minister view this? Isn't it something to take with you? That's what you're actually saying in the new Coroner's Act?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u6	Again, as far as we can judge, this case is not counter-empty, not against the law. But that does not mean that what is happening is desirable. That is precisely why we are now preparing this legislative amendment. Mr De Jonge is working on this right now. That bill belongs to the Dutch Data Protection Authority. It is intended that it will be offered to the Council of State before the summer. The bill is expected to be presented to the House of Representatives in the autumn. This change of law also automatically involves an amendment of the Coronation Law, which I am responsible for. The aim of the legislative proposal is therefore to take measures on good information and communication and to legislate on this issue, which is the point made by Mrs Den Boer, but also on the question of what is now commercial and what is earning. It is justified that costs should be incurred, even now, in the context of research on human bodies. But when it comes to bodies, you shouldn't want to have an extra factor on top of it, so that it really becomes a business model. So we need to bring the legislation into line with the societal desires of the practice that is about to arise. That's important. That requires a careful process and I have a responsibility in it. As part of the legislative process, all the points mentioned by Mrs Den Boer will be laid down more clearly in the law. I refer to the obligation to provide information and good information to people about what is to happen. What are the rights and obligations you have before and during the trial? What are the conditions for institutions using bodies to increase knowledge in health care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u7	To sum up, Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I really see a role for this minister. There is an essential task for the Minister of the Interior, including in the area of supervision of this sector. For everyone in the Netherlands it is extremely important what the rules are, even when it comes to this funeral form. That is why monitoring, information and information are of great importance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u8	The human body is not a earning model. This applies to the body, but also applies to corpses. We are now seeing a company that manages to find the loopholes of the law when it comes to offering this practice a cheap alternative to burial. I hear the Minister saying that there are different laws that we also know are in the making. But in the meantime, this practice continues. What can the Minister do to prevent this practice from tomorrow as far as I am concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u9	We live in a rule of law. This means that we have legislation and that people, institutions and companies have to comply with the law. If this is not the case, and if they do not comply with the law, for example the law in force on the delivery of corpses, they will enforce their criminal offences under that law. That is the answer as it is now. When we think that situations such as these are not desirable, because it is a new market, a loophole in the law, a gap in the market or how you want to formulate it, then you have to fix it by law. That trajectory was already deployed in 2017 when it was about the Wzl. In the context of the internet consultation, many reactions have been received. They're being processed right now. This element is also added. I have promised Mrs Den Boer that we will regulate those points on communication and information. How do you keep those body parts and how can you engage in this type of activity in the Netherlands? It is about the dignity of the human body. That is something that we must deal with extremely carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you.
