ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the Amendment of the Road Traffic Act 1994 to cover registration and registration requirements, speed increases and better access to certain roads for tractors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Let me start by saying that I will be making my contribution quite brief today, despite the fact that there are eight minutes on the counter. There is a bill, and that bill is an elaboration of European legislation. We are already behind, so it is high time we made sure that tractors were also subject to registration and approval. The reason why I am standing here and not our agricultural spokesman is also because we are talking about tractors, but above all about road traffic, about large heavy vehicles which, if they are involved in traffic, cause additional risks at the moment, without supervision and enforcement. We should have taken care of that years ago. It has to be the EU, it has to put an end to an unjustified exception and it gives us the means to tackle and better maintain all kinds of undesirable situation. That's why we're in favour. As far as we are concerned, there are a number of weaknesses in the law. There will again be exceptions and exemptions. The Minister wants to add some sweetness to the acid with the 40-mile rule. The Council of State says that it does not really fit together. We are also years too late, which means that we do not actually have a transitional period. Legally, administratively and politically, this does not deserve a beauty prize, but the most important thing is now regulated. Let me explain what we are thinking here. First of all, road safety. Unfortunately, the number of fatal accidents involving agricultural vehicles is stable. The maximum speed of 25 kilometres per hour appears to be violated in practice, tractors and other agricultural vehicles are often huge, much larger than the other traffic, there are tools with sharp protrusions that do terrible things in the event of a collision. The "botsagressivity" the SWOV calls this. They drive too fast on man- and village roads and too slowly on the provincial road. And since they don't have a license plate, it's very difficult to maintain. OVV and SWOV are very clear: tractors are a major risk on public roads. Of course, that risk does not disappear by definition with a registration number, but much of the danger is also caused by the drivers, who could be dealt with if the license plate also increases the possibilities for enforcers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u4	Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear some contradictions in the story of Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks. On the one hand, she says that it is going to do everything with road safety, but on the other hand we have just found that we did not have it at all in the picture. So where do you get the wisdom that we're gonna solve everything with a license plate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u6	If Mr Van Aalst had listened, he would have heard that I am saying that we are not going to solve everything with a registration requirement, but that it will make enforcement possible. That's why we're in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u7	So my colleague from GroenLinks says that we are not maintaining it now. Can't we maintain it now? Can you explain that? I don't think there's any problem with a standing position, even without a license plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u8	Mr Van Aalst also knows that we have seen this in the reaction of the police to the peasant protests that without registration enforcement is a lot more difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u9	However, on the subject of enforcement, I would like to point out from Mrs Kröger that she thinks that, if there is no registration number, it is more difficult to maintain it. This may be the case for electronic speed measurement at most. But for the rest, it's just standing, finding an offence, identifying, checking if there's a tractor licence, if that's the case, and maintaining it? What changes a license plate to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u10	In my view, it is clear to OVV, SWOV and the police, following the farm protests, that with a registration requirement enforcement will be easier, including by electronic enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u11	As a SGP, I am of course the last to argue for insubordination and the condoning of violations of law. But you do not think that if thousands of tractors go on the road again on 21 March, there can still be enforcement? This is a misdemeanor, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u12	I would like to return to the SGP spokesman the following: must we maintain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u13	I don't think that's the discussion we're having. We are discussing what the registration plate adds to the possibilities for enforcement. Then I say: these possibilities are actually nil, except for electronic speed measurements. Then you could maintain without standing. Otherwise, you're gonna have to stand still. Then as a enforcer, you have all the tools to come up with sanctions, right? You agree with me, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think I'd like to go back to the situation surrounding the peasant protests. The police say very clearly that in such a situation without registration it is impossible to maintain. I think that's a very strong signal. Of course, standing is an element of enforcement, but so is the registration requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u15	Mr. Bishop, you know we're doing interruptions in two? This is the fourth time, isn't it? Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yes. There's a misdemeanor here. This proposal was already well before the farm protests, and now it is being used as an argument for maintaining it. I would ask Mrs Kröger to come up with a sound argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u17	Again, I look at what the OVV says, what SWOV says and what the police say. In fact, all these parties say that requiring road users to have a registration number as a consistent policy, especially in the case of road users who carry risks, increases the ability to maintain. I'd still like to talk about the risks. The threat is also about the behaviour of drivers. The possibilities for enforcers increase with a registration requirement. On about 50 hospitalisations due to accidents there are 16 fatalities, according to the figures. If there's no traffic accident, that relationship is so sharp. If you're hit by a trigger, there's not much chance. We can't keep ignoring that. Part of the insecurity can also be caused by technical defects and this can be prevented by, among other things, an obligation to act. This also solves our problem of possibly messing with soot filters and other technologies to combat emissions. Agricultural tractors account for 13%, we understand from the figures, of a large proportion of the nitrogen emissions from traffic. We can also better control the construction machinery that works in urban areas and their particulate emissions. Can the Minister confirm that? Then I have a question about the timing of the bill. Again, we support this law. I'm glad it's finally come after a long journey. But why not in 2025? I thought you said you could have done this a long time ago. We are already lagging behind other European countries, so why this delay? Finally, the link to the maximum speed. I would like to know from the Minister, I know that she is very concerned about road safety and what risks she sees here for road safety. There are a lot of concerns about that, including from the VNG. From the earlier studies I note that this can be very bad for the weaker road users. Pedestrians and cyclists are out of the question. The advantage of a speed increase would be that tractors would rather take the provincial roads outside the village cores, but the risk is of course that this will not happen and large, dangerous vehicles may be even harder in places where cyclists and pedestrians are. I would very much like the Minister, together with the VNG, to see how we can make additional rules on the location of the tractor on the road and the enforcement of those rules locally, where it is playing. I would very much like to see us adopt additional traffic rules in the coming year which regulate exactly what can and cannot be done. I am considering tabling a motion on this matter. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u18	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let us, as PVV, be honest with ourselves: we were against, we are against and we remain against the proposal to introduce an obligation for speedy tractors and to require tractors to carry a registration number. Mr. Chairman. This amendment to the law has only one purpose, namely the indiscriminate imposition of a European dictatorship on our farmers, who are already getting so much out of them in these times. This government is shitting itself for the European Commission, which has already failed the Netherlands to comply with its orders in good time. That's why we're standing here today, and nothing else. Mr. Chairman. Let us be clear that, of course, it is not Brussels that imposes a registration requirement. No, that's the Chamber and this minister himself. And why? No one has a decent argument for this. That's crazy, isn't it? In 2016 we as the Lower House already rejected this bill, and now we should adopt it because Brussels is blackmailing us with high fines? Is this the European Union this minister is walking away with? Is this the beautiful European idea? It's totally ripped off. Mr. Chairman. Let me highlight some points in the bill. The first thing the PVV notice in this bill is "automated enforcement." To put it in plain Dutch: farm posts. These are flashlights that agricultural vehicles with their new license plates will have to keep a close eye on and go for a ticket. It is simply a vulgar reckoning with which The Hague shows that it is going to take back the peasants hard, because they have opposed the elite in The Hague. But, President, believe me, these peasants are not going to let it go; make your breasts wet. The hardworking families are not allowed to be squeaked by the elite in The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Road safety is very important for the PVV, but using this argument to introduce a registration requirement is just nasty. When the PVV asked questions about how many agricultural vehicles were involved in road accidents without a licence or registration, the Minister could not answer them. SWOV also claims that it cannot reliably determine the number of serious road injuries caused by agricultural vehicles. That is strange for such a far-reaching measure that no one has imposed, but is being implemented. Mr. Chairman. There was a time when the PVV wasn't alone in this. In 2016, both the VVD and the CDA strongly addressed the then Minister, Minister Schulz. The arguments that then emerged in the debate still make sense. Let me mention some of them. Road safety is mainly determined by a sensible and competent driver, not by a registration number on a tractor. An agricultural vehicle is only sporadic on the public road unless, of course, they are forced to come to the Malieveld. It's a work vehicle. It is not an everyday means of transport for farm families. This proposal creates unnecessary burdens and does not contribute to road safety. In those few years nothing has changed about the bill or the arguments. The only difference we see today compared to two years ago is the capitulation of the VVD and the CDA. Farmers are caught hard and abandoned by these parties again today. Finally, Mr President. The PVV wonders what problem we solve with this legislative amendment. The answer is none at all. The only thing this law will lead to is for our farmers, those hard-working entrepreneurs, to be burdened with even more bureaucratic noise and unnecessary costs. But what else would you have expected from these political parties that would do everything in their power to destroy our farmers? That is why the PVV will vote firmly against this monstrosity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u20	Is Mr Van Aalst of the PVV familiar with the expression "like monks, equal hoods"? If such a license plate doesn't do anything for enforcement, let's just cut it off from the speed pedals, and from the cars, or virtually any other traffic participant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Sienot is new to the debate today. Turns out he didn't listen. I just explained to you what the big difference is. I heard you shouting in the press this morning: great, we all have to do that! Because of your actions we have indeed provided everything with license plates: the moustache scooter, your lease bike and so on. And that's what you compare to a trigger. Maybe Mr. Von Martels, as a farmer, takes his kids to school every morning or goes to the supermarket, but a tractor is a tool and not a means of transport. You get all kinds of things mixed up and you pull things together, but it doesn't change anything. You're just trying to tear these farmers down. I understand that, because you're from D66 and your colleague is doing no different, so this bill fits perfectly in your style. I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u22	I haven't been on this committee in a while. That also gave me the opportunity to look in all kinds of other places. One of the things I have learned is that tractors are also used for many other purposes, for example for construction. In Amsterdam, they set up a whole alley in one go to avoid environmental zones. Since there's no license plate on it, there's no way to fine it. So my question is again: do you agree with us that it is precisely these signs that can contribute to road safety and that it is simply a question of 'equal monks, equal hoods'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u23	Total bullshit. There is no evidence whatsoever that this contributes anything to road safety. And the example of D66, Amsterdam and the environmental zones... Yes, that is indeed where the Netherlands goes to hell, thanks to D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u24	You can't leave yet. Mr von Martels also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u25	In any case, I can tell you that I have indeed taken my children to school with the trigger. That is certainly good to hear from Mr Van Aalst, but I am concerned about the following. The PVV shows a very critical sound. Our input will later show that we too are critical on points, but we also see positive points in this legislative proposal, including the increase in speed. Does Mr Van Aalst not see the danger that if this bill is not passed, the speed increase will also be lost? And what is Mr Van Aalst's view of the fact that this notice of default could lead to enormous financial consequences? What's he like about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u26	Let me start with the speed increase. That is what we have been in favour of; we have always been in favour of it. I think that's settled in a motion. As far as I am concerned, that can be separate from the legislative proposal. In fact, I think we can arrange that very easily. I don't think that's such a problem. As for the notice of default, make my day. I say, "Brussels, come on, we'll eat you raw."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u27	That sounds like fun. Mr. Von Martels? No? I'm not challenging you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u28	I can respond to this, but I will have plenty of time to put forward all the points I want to contribute to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u29	That's what we're waiting for. Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u31	I call Mr Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. This bill has a long history; we have been able to read it a bit in the newspaper. The Court rejected previous proposals, we believe it is right. Although we are now more positive as a VVD, I would like to know a few things. I have some questions. What does this obligation actually mean for road safety? To what extent does this bill affect road safety? The Road Safety Research Foundation previously calculated over the period 2006 to 2015 that there would be an average of 11 fatalities per year and also a significant number of accidents with agricultural vehicles per year. That's only a few percent, but what exactly is it? I live in the Betuwe myself. I walk there a lot and when the weather is nice, I often sit on the race bike. I regularly encounter a tractor, possibly with a trailer. If that's the case and if I'm on the dike, everyone might know it: that's a narrow road. I'm really getting off and I'm getting on the verge. Because it's big dangers that come along at high speed, sometimes with young drivers. It doesn't make me feel safe. But what really makes this law improve road safety? What effect does this law have on the possibility of moving tractors to other roads? I am referring specifically to the target group of cyclists and hikers. What do they notice? I am also particularly talking about road safety in villages, rural villages. What do they notice about it when the tractors are perhaps going to drive on the bypass? The parties VVD, CDA, SGP and other parties stopped the apk obligation in 2016, because they did not want a head on policy and because an alternative was not sufficiently investigated. The VVD certainly did not want to increase the burden on industry, on the agricultural sector and on fruit growers. However, in the context of road safety, the subject has been dealt with several times here in the Chamber, both by politicians and by interest groups, but also by the Research Council on Security in 2013. At the time there was also a motion by the PvdA, by Mrs Kuik, for a registration requirement for tractors; that is something else. That motion won a majority in this Chamber. That's a fact we're dealing with. Following the rejection of the first proposal in 2016, the sector itself, in cooperation with the Minister, has really shifted its focus. Together with road managers, including the municipalities via the VNG and the IPO for the provinces, they have come to an agreement on what I would put down as a fragile structure. You can't just take stones out of it and you can't say that you put a tassel over it and give it a different color. The Netherlands has now also failed by the European Commission. Is it true that the Netherlands is still about the only country in Europe where there is no obligation for tractors? How can that be? Why do tractors in the former Eastern bloc, for example, like in Poland, drive around with or without a license plate, but not in the Netherlands? Why is this the case in Germany, France, Italy, Belgium and the United Kingdom, but not yet here? What does the notice of default actually mean? Will we get a fine? Do we have to do it? Aren't we far too late? How much is the fine? Who's gonna pay for that? Why should we pay a fine from Europe at all if other countries do not pay the fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u33	I hear Mr Dijkstra mention all kinds of countries. Does France have a trekking obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u34	In France, they have a license plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u35	Do they have an obligation? No. So has France received fines yet? I have the answer to your question to the Minister. You asked the Minister if we'd get fines. I don't think so. France didn't get it either, because they don't have an obligation there either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u36	That's an interesting point. We're about to hear what's going on. At least they have a license plate in France. They've had that for a few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u37	Mr Dijkstra explained why the VVD initially voted against the law, partly because of the costs for farmers, but he is now also talking about the default. The note following the Minister's report of 15 July last year says something about the possible fine. The Minister writes that the fine may amount to €210,000 per day. That's EUR 6.5 million a month. Does Mr Dijkstra not agree with me that it is very strange to have shot down that law at the time, with the risk of a very heavy fine of millions a month, to reduce the cost to farmers? Now the taxpayer pays for it. That can't be the point, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u38	We have not yet been fined, but we have received a letter of formal notice. It's awaiting politics. So the question is whether we are taking a wise political decision together. But I'd like to get rid of that letter of formal notice. I also want to know what that means. If the amounts you mention are correct, then you're talking about substantial amounts. I do not want them to be on anyone's account, not those of farmers and not those of taxpayers. In the end, I think we should make sure that the notice of default is off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u39	Mr Dijkstra says that the fine has not yet been dealt with. But of course it has been hanging over us like a sword of Damocles for two years, because that fine has not been dealt with. That legislation is not yet in place, so it is still possible. That is not thanks to the VVD, because it voted against the law. The VVD has almost contributed to the fact that that fine is now hanging over our heads like the sword of Damocles. Then you can't just say: no one should have to pay the costs, so not the farmers and not society? This could be due to the mood of the VVD, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u40	At the time, that was wise. Now we're here to create a solution. There has been considerable change in the proposal, at least in its implementation and in the agreements that have been made. I have a number of questions and I share the questions about the notice of default. Isn't it too late? How much is the fine? And why would we pay for it at all? I think we should just make sure that there is a proper law here and we can report it right away. Then the fine and the whole threat of it are off the table as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u41	It's gonna be special anyway. I don't get it anymore. Why is the VVD now fully turned? There was a motion by the Member Kicken in the Chamber, which you just referred to, to introduce a registration requirement. That's what the VVD voted against, just like we did. Fine. But why are you rolling now? Is now the only argument you have left that you are afraid of Brussels? Is that the only argument the VVD can come up with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u42	No. There are many more arguments why this proposal can be considered with a positive basis. I'll get to that in a minute. It's true that we were against the tractor license. But we've always linked that to a speed increase, from 25 km/h to 40 km/h. We also linked it to certain requirements to the driver. That's what happened with the T-driving license. This started in 2015. I have here the pieces of my predecessor, who made very wise remarks about this in 2014. In that respect, we are consistent. We have always linked it to safety, reliability and low loads. This is still the case, including this proposal. And we also linked it to a speed increase, because if you're asking people for something, it has to be something against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u43	It's not getting any clearer. These were indeed exactly the arguments your colleague used a few years ago to oppose this proposal. Now you're starting to spin, as if it's suddenly an argument to be in favour. This doesn't make any sense. The only thing that is happening now is that the VVD is getting squeaked through Brussels and being held hostage by that coffee shop party, those D66 junkies. And the only thing you do is nothing at all: you stand by and you look at it. Pull a line, will you? Tell me what you stand for. Or are you afraid to draw that line, afraid that D66 will sniff that line before you pull it? Is that the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u44	No. I always enjoy your contributions. One of the things I just said is, we have a T-driving license combined with an increase in speed. That was not the case at the time. This bill will make that possible. That is an improvement that will be possible. In a moment it is also possible for some farmers to take the bypass and they no longer have to go through the villages. They'd like that, too. A big difference from then, when the sector was against, is that the sector now says: please, give it full, because we see more benefits than disadvantages. That's the point. This bill has been improved, not only in terms of the law itself, but also in terms of its implementation, the way we do it. At the same time, it does justice to our principles: low burdens and ensuring that people can do their job as well as possible, including with a tractor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u45	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Chairman. Then what's the alternative? Mr. Van Aalst needs to pay attention. Can we do the cock without a license plate? And what does that mean? After all, it's not about the license plate on a tractor. It is an app for certain agricultural vehicles that want to drive faster. Has that alternative been investigated? Could you do that without a license plate? And what are the consequences? Doing one without a license plate isn't ahead, but can the Minister give us a reason why it's not now? Is that an option? And why was it shot? How do we keep the impact of such a registration, to put it that way, and the apk as lean-and-mean as possible, which has always been our starting point without the fear of having to pay another car tax later on or having such an absurd tachograph in it? We absolutely don't want that. As a VVD, we do not want the costs for entrepreneurs to increase more than is absolutely necessary. What guarantees can we get from the Minister? And when we talk about the cost, what is the cost per vehicle for the pickup and the license plate? How do these costs relate to the value of such a modern tractor? Is it true that there is an ingrowth path, that time is taken, that it doesn't have to be from today to tomorrow, so that it goes neatly: especially with new tractors immediately, but with existing tractors phased out? I see a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u47	I'd like to clarify something. I just heard a nice debate between the VVD and the PVV. It was about the apk. This bill is of course only about the apk-test for 40-plus tractors, the tractors that run faster than 40 km/h. Not all tractors are therefore eligible for an apk verification. Why doesn't France have an apk check? Because the tractors don't go any faster than 40 km/h. That's the answer to that question. I thought that, if I were to shed some light on this issue, it would help everyone later in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u48	You'll be helped. Isn't that right, Mr. Dijkstra?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u49	Yeah, yeah, I feel that as support. It's always a good thing that an farmer from the field indicates that. I've got a schedule here, too. I'll be on Twitter in a minute as to exactly what's going on. It is true, as Mr von Martels says, that the agricultural vehicles that want to go faster than 40 km/h have to go on. The rest will be registered. Mr. Chairman. A side step that is also immediately regulated is that there is an end to a category of...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I think that's good. The VVD is happy with that. "MMBS' stands for "limited speed motor vehicles'. Those are terrible things. For the layman: these are converted cars, where the third, fourth and fifth gears have been demolished. They ride with an orange triangle. I see Mr Moorlag knows them. It's often used by young people. Of course, that's cheap for 16-year-olds and you can drive it. But sometimes they're staged. Sometimes you read in the newspaper that such a thing instead of 25 km/h goes heavily above 100. I don't want to. I also want us to get rid of these things. Fortunately, this proposal puts an end to new MMBSs. With this proposal can we also get the existing MMBSs off the road or will there be some kind of extinction? I'd rather see them through the shredder. Recently, one of them was picked up that drove 100 miles an hour. Then the district attorney immediately said, "Destroy." That's also the line I'd like on these kind of vehicles. They have to get off the road, because they're dangerous. Mr. Chairman. There is now a broad package in which the sector can agree. It is a translation of the European directive that suits our country, and without the headlines we had on it first. There are also exceptions. Think of the fruit trains at my place in the Betuwe. And there are a number of safeguards. I like to mention them. There will be better access for tractors to connecting and bypassing roads. There's gonna be an increase in speed. It's gonna be possible. There will be no vehicle tax. There is no need for a tachograph and the new motor vehicles we were talking about are now no longer allowed. These are all things that do justice to that directive and can count on support at the same time. I think these are the most important points to mention now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u50	You can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u51	I now come to another paragraph.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u52	Okay. Then Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've been waiting for your proposal. I can't stop thinking it's special. Kuik filed a motion to introduce a registration requirement. The VVD voted against it. Now you say: well, a registration requirement, as long as there is not too much cost involved. So apparently you're making a twist and you're now in favour of a registration requirement. I hear you say that you absolutely do not want any headlines on top of Brussels regulations. May I explain to you that the registration requirement is not from Brussels? The registration requirement now allows you to use this bill. It's an extra head on top of Europe. Why don't you just tell me honestly that you're responsible here for the registration, that you're putting that head on top right now? 'Cause that's what you're doing right now. If you say "no heads," you're gonna have to remove the registration requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u54	That's a choice you can make. You can say that you're doing sec de apk and that you're doing the registration in a different way, not by the license plate. That's a choice. I just asked why that wasn't the case. I also have an idea of the answer. The answer will be so soon that you will not be able to open certain roads to tractors. That's gonna be tough. The story is that they can't drive any faster, because you have to have permission from the road manager. Those are all agreements, positive things, which then lapse because we want to settle one thing. This only means that the burdens remain, but not the positive things that are on the contrary. It's a bill and you have to weigh it. Then there's always things you don't like and things you do like. Your first remark was: sometimes you vote for something and sometimes you vote against something. Well, in this case, we were against the T-driving license because it wasn't linked to the speed increase. It is now, and that's the beauty of it. It can't be that as a party you're against one part and three years later, when there's a completely different package in which that one part is against everything. I think that's a little weird. That's cheap. It's also about taking responsibility, solving problems and finding the right balance in the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u55	Mr President, I shall now be brief. The next interruptions will be a little longer. Mr. Chairman. I like that Mr Dijkstra is yelling all kinds of things about the T-driving licence, but I am not talking about the T-driving licence. This is just the know-it-all the PvdA wanted to introduce. You voted against it. Then don't tell me now: we were against the T-driving license, but yes... No, you're just defending that registration right now. You were against it! You can stop it now. The only thing that comes from Europe is an obligation for 8,000 agricultural vehicles, not for all agricultural vehicles, but for only 8,000 of the 400 000 or 300,000 that drive around. Why would you want to do more? You are putting a head on top of European legislation here. Just admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u56	Yeah, you can do this different way. We both agree that you have to comply with the apk obligation, I hope. You don't agree with that either, do you? Then we'll be done soon enough. Then it doesn't make much sense to debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u57	I'm being challenged now. Mr Dijkstra pretends to be in prehistoric times. That's total bullshit. You also know damn well that a tractor must meet all kinds of requirements when it is used to go on public roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u58	I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u59	We now have a T-driving license for that. Even those who control him have to meet demands. So don't be so childish. Don't go yelling at me that Brussels' obligation is awesome. You just don't have anything to say. Just admit it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u60	I hardly understand Mr Van Aalst anymore. He says drivers have to meet certain requirements. That's what the T-driving license is for. He also implicitly believes that vehicles must meet certain requirements. That's why you have an obligation. Then you have the driver safe and the vehicle as safe as possible. Then you have to make sure the road is secure and then we'll get somewhere. But if you say that a vehicle doesn't have to meet any requirements and that we don't have a catch for the tractors, we'll be done soon. There will be. I think that's a good thing. Of course, that's a burden for a farmer. Of course, it's annoying that you have to go to such a testing station every year. Of course it is annoying that you have to pay three tens in a moment to get a record for a vehicle. But there are also things on the other side, namely that you can drive on the other roads, that you can go faster and get home early, and that you better get from one plot to another. Maybe we can save a few more deaths a year. Those are things that are nicely taken, I think. It's about the balance in the bill. That's why the VVD wants to keep the apk-obligatory as limited as possible. As far as I am concerned, this has now been achieved with a trade-off. Our line has always been consistent in that respect. It's very simple: we support good laws and we don't support bad ones. The last one wasn't good, this one's better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u61	Mr Van Aalst is so excited that I think he will come forward for an interruption every time, but this time it is Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u62	I have been listening for a while to the debate between these two gentlemen on the right. The last thing I hear Mr Dijkstra say is that we might also be able to prevent a few deaths, and that is a good thing. That was a sentence that I thought was: we have so many debates on road safety, where Mr Dijkstra is the first to say that road safety is crucial and first and foremost. That's what this minister says. Then it must be the basis for our legislation and how we deal with it all. I would like to ask Mr Dijkstra whether that is not the prevention of accidents, the collateral damage, but that we look with those eyes at this legislation and indeed say: that is what makes sense for other vehicles. And we say: that 40 km/h in the built-up area brings with it real risks, so municipalities should have the possibility to close village cores for tractors that can drive faster? Does Mr Dijkstra agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u63	Maybe I should nuance my words a little bit. Perhaps you have a point there. "Nicely taken," of course, it's not. Every victim is one too many. This law is primarily about the obligation of agricultural vehicles. I have also asked some questions about what this means for road safety. That's what I started. I have set an example of my own. You can be scared of one of those things. Someone e-mailed me how big they are: 3.45 meters and 2 meters so much. Those are some pretty good vehicles coming at you. They don't all drive 20 miles an hour now. They often drive faster, with a 16 or 17-year-old guy in it. I'll just get out of the way. The most important thing is the obligation for these vehicles. Vehicles must meet certain requirements. I also want to know what that means for road safety. That's why I asked that question. The SWOV is not entirely clear in this, I think. They say it's about so many accidents per year on average, which means it could care about 11 road deaths a year. I want to be more clear about that. But the primary goal is to comply with the apk-obligatory that is now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u64	This minister has chosen to extend the bill and not primarily for the obligation to do so. It's really about an increase in speed. The question then arises as to what its impact on road safety is. We cannot have an incredible effort on the one hand to reduce the number of road deaths, which I think is very positive from this Minister, and I know that Mr Dijkstra is always very much in favour of it in debates, and on the other hand we are taking a measure that we cannot fully see. So I hope that Mr Dijkstra will support our proposals to make it possible for municipalities to protect village centres for vehicles that drive faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u65	I'm gonna take a look at your proposals. I would point out, however, that an agreement has been made with the VNG, which represents the municipalities, together with the farmers' unions, namely LTO Netherlands, and with CUMELA and Fedecom, who have been involved in particular. I've also asked what the effect is. That is also one of the reasons why you have an amendment tabled by Mr von Martels at your office. I think this is what we need to look at. What we shouldn't have is that we're getting in the rain by saying "go on the provincial road," which means more and more serious accidents. That shouldn't be the intention. I think you should always see with some common sense where you do and where you don't, but make it possible. If you ask me something on the one hand, you want to give it back on the other. There's got to be a good balance in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u66	I heard Mr Dijkstra say in one of his last sentences: that old bill was crap. At least his former colleague had the balls to vote against. Now there is a new proposal that is good, and this morning you are calling yourself in the press: that is about the same bill. Yeah, this is the same bill. Can I be pleased that you also show that you have the balls to just vote against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u67	The bill is there. A number of things have changed, perhaps not so much in the letter of the law itself but much more in the execution. For example, agreements have been made with the agricultural sector that you can also drive faster, and with the road managers that you can also come to other places. These are, I think, the two most important points. This next to the central registration system that wasn't there before. Otherwise, you'd have to go by county and see where you can and can't do it. None of that's gonna work. So that should be easier, simpler and cost-effective, and it is now. That is not so much in the letter of the law itself but in the agreements that are now in place. In addition, the sector is now massively behind it and asking for it. Of course, there will always be people who say: I don't want that or I don't have to. That's not a point if you keep driving slower than 25 km/h or if you keep driving on your own property. Then it's not that complicated, but if you want to drive faster and you want to use it, you'll still have to comply with the registration requirement, the registration requirement and the registration requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Van Aalst, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u69	I note that the sector is now being pushed through a compromise: you will get a speed increase, but then you will swallow the rest. That's what the VVD does. You do that more often on more files. I recognize that at the VVD, but that's really absurd. It's not gonna pay off at all. You pretend there's a prehistoric time now, that it's all a gang and nothing's being controlled. That's total bullshit. Just leave those farmers alone. Now show me what you stand for!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u70	Yeah, good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u71	I have read Mr Dijkstra's amendment to which he referred in his reply to my interruption. I do not read the word 'road safety'. It is about administrative burdens and whether it is not all too expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u72	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u73	It's also about a law review in three years. If we take this issue of road safety seriously and if we allow a speed increase for this type of vehicle with the risk of more accidents, I hope that Mr Dijkstra agrees with me wholeheartedly that we ask the Minister to evaluate quickly and to have SWOV look at the effects of that speed increase and that we should give municipalities the opportunity to provide local tailor-made services to ensure that some vehicles are not able to drive in all places, for example at a school or in places where it is really unsafe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u74	Road safety is part of an evaluation. So the moment you evaluate a law and one of the primary benefits of such a law is that you can drive faster in other places, road safety belongs to that as far as I'm concerned. If that is not enough, you must make a proposal yourself. I'll take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u75	Again, this is a three-year review of the law. I think we should just ask the Minister to say within a year: let's monitor, finger on the wrist, with SWOV, to really see what the effects of that speed increase are. On the second part of my interruption, Mr Dijkstra did not go into: to really offer municipalities the opportunity to offer local customisation, so that we do not speed up large, dangerous vehicles in places with many vulnerable road users.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u76	As far as the latter is concerned, you always have to find a good balance. What are you doing in schools and stuff? I would point out, however, that the VNG also sat at the table to come to this bill. Everyone has been able to contribute to this. That's a fragile structure, I said. It cannot be that you say: I have this and I am pulling a pebble out of it now, because I find a particular item much and much more important, or I give it a different color. It's a structure, it's a trade-off, so there's pros and cons to it. At the moment you're gonna slide in there, like, "I've got this in and I'm gonna want it even more," I'm afraid that's gonna be bad soup and that's gonna say: yes, but then I don't want this law anymore either. That should not be the case. You heard Mr. Van Aalst. He doesn't want a law at all, because he doesn't want an easy one at all. You have parties that say, "I don't think it goes far enough." All of this may be true, but I think that what we have now is a balance that we need to cherish with each other. It has been debated for a long time, and it has been worked on for a long time. This is a law that passed for the first time in 2006 and which was aligned in 2016. Now there's something we need to cherish with each other. The urgency is here now. I think that you are right to raise the points relating to road safety, and you are right to point that out to me. So we definitely need to look into that. But an evaluation after a year is far too short for me, especially given the lack of clarity in SWOV's figures at the moment. I've just asked some questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u77	A lot of words from Mr Dijkstra to say: we are going to introduce a speed increase for large vehicles. But there is not yet the willingness for local municipalities to offer local customization, because then Mr Dijkstra gives the argument that the VNG has been on the table. Then the other thing. SWOV keeps its finger on the wrist about road safety. It seems to me that we are really taking this major policy change into account in the evaluation. 'Cause it's not like a law review. This simply means that we are asking SWOV to make an explicit examination of the consequences of this increase in speed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u78	I understand Mrs Kröger's point. Many of the things Mrs Kröger wants can be done now. In my own village, Ommeren, there is simply a ban on trucks, because they want to send them through the provincial road. Then why wouldn't you come up with a ban on tractors? 'Cause they're gonna be able to go down that provincial road in no time. They'd have to be able to drive faster than they are now. So I think it depends very much on what situation in which case. Customisation is needed, but I would like to point out that the UNG generic has also put its scribble under this piece. It's a fragile structure. Let us avoid saying from The Hague what is most traffic safe in one village or another village. Let it also be left to the people themselves and to the common sense. Because we all have the same goal, which is to minimise traffic casualties. This law is purely about the pot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u79	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u80	We have just discussed the support of the T-driving licence, coupled with that 40 km/h, to improve road safety and traffic flow. It's settled and it's done. Now there are good follow-up agreements with this sector, with those road managers. In my opinion, the package now before us is a balanced one, because, apart from the disadvantages, there are also sufficiently convincing benefits. It is now important that this balance should turn in the right direction. Again, I wonder what the answer is about road safety. Because of course only a grill or a white plate plate on one thing screws doesn't help, but moving to other roads can help. It prevents scary walkers or cyclists like me. An apk can also provide safe vehicles on the road, for example because the braking device or lighting will be checked periodically, which is not the case now. This can, of course, help to reduce the number of accidents due to technical defects. Also a registration number, because it is linked to the apk obligation, may offer cost benefits in insurance when enforcement by the police or in case of theft prevention. Those are small things, but they're important. Road managers will have to open up certain roads to tractors. This could improve road safety. But how hard are the guarantees and agreements that have now been made with these road managers? How's that taken care of? I read about a central system. How's that gonna work? Will farmers really get these desired benefits in the near future? Again, we also ask some of the farmer, and he is already under pressure. The increase in charges should therefore really be kept to a minimum. I think that's the case in this bill. There should be no introduction of vehicle taxes or of driving time requirements via tachographs. I think it would be a good idea for the Minister, at the request of the VVD, to highlight this clearly in her contribution. I look forward to the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u81	I have a question for Mr Dijkstra. There was just a little debate with GroenLinks about evaluating this terrible law after a year. You are now tabling an amendment with Mr von Martels to do so after three years. Don't you think that's crazy? Mr Visser asked for an evaluation after two years. What is it now? Or does the VVD go from left to right and doesn't know all about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u82	One, two, three, four, five. The standard by law is five years. We don't always stick to that. Mr von Martels' amendment has been adopted for three years. I think that's a good time. In road safety, in the number of victims and accidents, there are sometimes outliers. It happens. I myself took the period 2006-2015, where there were an average of eleven victims, but it may well be that in one year there were fourteen and in the other year there were none. On average, you come up with something, but average victims of course don't exist. That's why I think it's wise that we take a period that does justice to the variations that might be there, but at the same time is not too long, so you can really measure what it means for the farmers in particular: haven't we all rigged things that we didn't want with each other and keep it lean-and-mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u83	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2019 was the year of the tractor. Vakblad De Boerderij has an annual top 50 of the most powerful figures in the agricultural sector. Usually they're people; mostly they're men. But in 2019, as a symbol of the peasant protests, the tractor was number one. On 1 October 2,200 tractors hurried from all over the Netherlands via highways to The Hague; illegal, because they were not allowed on the highway. This resulted in a very busy Tuesday morning rush. At the low point there was more than 1,100 kilometers of traffic. We saw farmers riding tractors through the shopping streets of The Hague and driving through police deposits, ignoring clues. We saw a farmer ride a police horse with a tractor. Tractors drove over the middle of the road and through the front door of a province house. Highways and an airport were blocked. The Netherlands became a tractor state. The army had to be called in to guarantee security. The police refused to intervene and enforce for security reasons. District Attorney Linda Bregman recently admitted that enforcement failed. I'm quoting an interview with her in Opportuun, the magazine of the Public Prosecutor's Office. "That retention was not possible. Not on the farm demo of October 1st and not on October 16th. And not with the builder demo on October 30th. Not because we didn't want to. Not because we didn't understand the law. But because it just couldn't be stopped. (...) You can set up blockages, but in places where there's no guardrail, they just drive off the road. Get in the meadow. Around the blockades. And back on the freeway. The fact that they don't have a license plate is also difficult for enforcement." I repeat, they don't have a license plate. It's hard for enforcement. Mr. Chairman. Honor to whom credit is due and shame to whom shame is due. It is due to the VVD, the CDA, the PVV and the SGP that the tractors still have no license plate and therefore cannot be maintained. These parties voted against the registration requirement at the end of 2016, as it would entail additional costs for farmers. The bill was rejected. In the autumn of last year the Netherlands picked the bitter fruits of that. Farmers made the best use of the fact that vehicles without registration cannot be fined, especially in the mass and all the threats associated with the demonstrations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u85	I do not really want to discuss the farm protests here. I'm proud of the farmers who stood there. Mr Wassenberg of the Animal Party is probably very pleased with all those people who occupy those peasant stables every time, those crazy activists. Anyway, let's not talk about that. You say you can't maintain without a license plate. Explain that to me, because I don't get it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u86	It's about massality. Then I would like to refer to the interview...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u87	No, you said, "I can't do it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u88	Mr President, why don't I finish my story? The district attorney said, "I don't know if you've ever been wrong, but the wheels of a tractor are bigger than the average adult." At some point, the army was deployed to keep those tractors away. Cars can be driven aside. The moment you're with 2,200 tractors, you can't keep up with that. That's what the D.A. says, and that's what the police say. I am glad that Mr Van Aalst knows better, as the PVV often knows better, but it is really nonsense what he is saying now. You're dealing with this massiveity and this kind of tractor, this kind of vehicle, that's almost used as a weapon. There's no reason to argue with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u89	Mr. Van Aalst, you can't agree with each other, but let's let each other finish. This also benefits the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u90	Certainly, Mr. President, but if so much nonsense comes along, I will be forced to intervene. This bill was already in 2016. There were no peasant protests back then. At the time, this cabinet was not quite so bright that it was going to introduce all these strange measures. So stop telling me about the peasant protests. Why can't you explain to me why you can't maintain it without a license plate? That question just came along. You have no argument for it at all. It's total bullshit. A standing posture can always be done. No one is above the law, not even that farmer on that tractor, nor those crazy activists from your constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u91	Maybe Mr Van Aalst isn't very good at listening. I quote the officer responsible: "I don't know if you've ever been wrong, but the wheels of such a tractor alone are bigger than the average adult. At some point, you're gonna have to deploy the army to intervene here. They didn't choose that. Security has been chosen. That does indeed mean that there has been no enforcement." The moment the prosecutor says this and the moment the police say this, I am very pleased that Mr Van Aalst of the PVV knows better, but I think he should be here in that respect. He doesn't know what he's talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Van Aalst, you feel challenged. I understand that, but you are also making a contribution to the debate every time. I believe your question is clear, but you may not get the answer you want. Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u93	It's incorrect. This bill is not about peasant protests. This bill has been in place since 2016. This proposal is about something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u94	Yes, but everyone can have their own input. Although Mr Wassenberg spoke today about garden snakes, that is his right. So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u95	That it might be wise for Mr Wassenberg to stick to those garden snakes. What he's saying about this bill is just not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u96	What Mr Van Aalst does not understand is this. In 2016, the Animal Party voted in favour of the proposal. That was rejected at the time, thanks, among other things, to the PVV group. You see where that can lead. That's my argument. At the moment when the bill had been passed and not all of them had been made weird exceptions and not everything had been put on the long track indefinitely, we would now have had that registration requirement. Then you could have photographed vehicles to still sign people's tickets. You wouldn't have been able to do so much at the time, but at least you could have signed off on the offenders. Now it hasn't been possible, because there was no license plate on those vehicles. Mr. Van Aalst doesn't quite get it, I think, but it's the best I can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u97	Does Mr Wassenberg now agree that the farmers' demonstrations would not have taken place if the bill had been adopted in 2015?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u98	I'm not arguing that. I merely argue that the tractors that were driving around could have been approved at the time when they had license plates, if necessary by taking photos later. But then there could have been action. And now it hasn't been maintained. That is what Mr Wassenberg argues.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u99	I do not think we will agree on this, because I still think that enforcement could have taken place. Your speech shows that you think otherwise, and I am at peace with that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u100	Do I understand that Mr Wassenberg is actually advocating that the government should use instruments that some of the activists are using, namely photographing their opponents, and then applying taking-and-shaming to enforcement? Photographing license plates without any standing position and without there being any mention of what the offence is: can't that be done? That leads to total randomness, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u101	That's bullshit! The moment someone drives a car on the highway 130 where you like 100 or 150 where you like 130 later on, luckily, no one is allowed to be photographed faster than 100 then you can also be photographed. Then you'll get the ticket in the house later. Then you won't be held up. If you drive 200 km/h, but if you drive too fast, you will be photographed and you will get a ticket later. You can do that! Couldn't have done that here because those vehicles don't have license plates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u102	In short, I think I get it. Mr Wassenberg argues that registration should be introduced mainly in order to be able to impose penalties. Well, congratulations! Then we'll remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u103	It's about security. At the time when these peasant protests put safety at risk, it would have been good if the perpetrators could be ordered there. If that is not possible at the time they are arrested, then you will indeed do so afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u104	I hope that we can talk about the obligation to do so, because I think that is the essence of this bill. Fine is certainly not. Does Mr Wassenberg agree with me that we should not put flashlights in the countryside to photograph tractor plates?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u105	I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u106	Good. Then can you continue with the apk instead of with this whole scary story? I don't think we want to put a flash pole near me on the Ommerenveldseweg or the Zijveling or the Bloembosweg, because I happen to be afraid to walk there as a pedestrian. We shouldn't have that, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u107	But my story isn't about flashlights either. If Mr Dijkstra continues to listen to me, he will not encounter the word 'flitspaal'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u108	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u109	Mr. Chairman. The Minister of IenW is responsible for safety and accessibility on the road. How does she look at these tractor-order demonstrations and the unsafe situations? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. And how does she look at the fact that farmers who have committed that offence cannot now be prosecuted for failing to register? How was the alignment with the Ministry of Justice and Security? How will she deal with this in the future? Is there any work on tracking tractors that have broken the law? If climate protesters are taken off a crossroads because emergency services would have to run around differently, then surely it is impossible for tractors to block entire highways and have been able to hinder emergency services? Emergency services have hindered, Mr. von Martels! It's impossible for them to get away with that, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. But there are more bitter fruits for the Netherlands. With the firing of the registration law by the parties I mentioned earlier, the Netherlands no longer complies with the European Directive 2014/45. The Netherlands has formally failed to do so by the European Commission. I had a little debate on this with Mr Dijkstra just now. In the note following the report of 15 July, the Minister goes into this in more detail. If the Netherlands defaults, heavy fines can be imposed, up to a maximum of more than two tonnes per day. That's EUR 6.5 million a month. In order to save on the costs for farmers, there is therefore a risk that the State and thus the taxpayer will pay for these fines. Mr. Chairman. We are now six months further after that letter of 19 July. I would like to know from the Minister whether the letter of formal notice by the Netherlands has still not resulted in fines. Indeed, those fines are still hanging over our heads like a sword of Damocles. What are the chances that the fines will follow? What are the further consequences if the Netherlands were to default? Mr. Chairman. My final point on the exceptions. Until 2025 there is no registration requirement for tractors that can run up to 40 km/h, if they do not drive faster than 25 km/h. That is so literal in the note to the report. That's impossible to maintain, isn't it? You have a tractor and it can be very hard. You say I'm not going any faster than 25 km/h and I don't want to go any faster than 25 km/h. Then you don't need a license plate. But if you go faster than that 25 km/h, then you don't have a license plate and then you can't easily get a ticket. Enforcement is therefore much more difficult. It will be a little easier than being with 2,000 farmers at the same time, but enforcement will not be easier in that way. Can the Minister answer that as well? Then I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u111	Finally, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna have to leave the meeting. I have a procedural meeting with the Justice Department in a moment. I hate to break it to you, but I have to play chess on two chess boards at once, but you'll see me again afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u112	We'll see you after that, thank you very much. I call Mr Moorlag of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr. Chairman. At the end of last week we were with a delegation from the LNV committee on working visits in Germany, at the Grüne Woche. There our buses were accompanied at some point, as Mr Bishop said, by active German farmers. What struck me was that these farmers were doing very disciplined action. There were three lanes. They used one. Every red light was stopped neatly. What also struck me was that all those tractors had a license plate, not only at the back, but also at the front. Now I do not want to say that there is a causal link between this disciplined behaviour and the registration requirement, but I think that a registration requirement does contribute to road safety. There is a heated debate here, as if it were a major crime to introduce a registration requirement. Mr Van Aalst behaves like someone we call "a jellyfish" on his shelf. A jellyfish is someone who indeed speaks in a heated manner. It is actually the indication of a petroleum lamp that has turned up a bit too high and therefore not only spreads a lot of light, but also a lot of soot. To be honest, I don't understand this miserable one. I think this is just a proportionate measure. A mustache bike is equipped with a license plate; mopeds are equipped with license plates; motorhomes that only go 40 days in the year are equipped with license plates and also pay vehicle tax. I believe that this measure contributes to improving road safety. It was also for this reason that my colleague Attje Kikki called a number of years ago for the introduction of such a registration requirement and also tabled a motion to that effect. I believe that this does indeed contribute to correct enforcement. Those who behave properly have nothing to fear. But if you commit a violation, it doesn't matter whether it's with a car or with a tractor == then it's much easier if you can maintain it using license plates. Let me give you a concrete example. In Groningen there was a somewhat freaked out campaigner who drove through a cordon. Drangheks flew around, cyclists were almost hit by it. It just takes the cops a lot of work to track down someone like that. If there was a license plate, you could've just done it from the footage. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA is in favour of this law. Honestly, not in this form. If we had run the pen ourselves, the law would have looked something else, but as Mr Dijkstra also says: it is a trade-off, it is a compromise. I understand that, and so we have to do it with this. I think that this is just poured into concrete within the coalition, so I'm not gonna try to change it, except for one point: is such a registration requirement a full registration requirement if you make only one registration requirement? Why not have two plates on the front and rear? That's what cars do. In Germany, they do the same. There were farmers taking action in Berlin, but I did not have the impression that they were taking action against the registration requirement. I have the feeling that that measure, which Mr Van Aalst is so opposed to, is completely consumed there. Not only in Germany, but also in Belgium it is mandatory to have front and rear registration numbers. I think it will facilitate enforcement and detection when plates are attached to the front and rear of a tractor. One plate's a little weird, too. It reminds me a bit of the first model of the ugly duck, the Citroën 2CV, the deux-chevaux, which was equipped with one headlight. Maybe that's why that car is called "the ugly duck." For harmony it is better that those John Deeres and those Fendts at the front and rear are marked with plates; that is also aesthetically very justified. I come to the amendment tabled by Mr von Martels as the main proposer and Mr Dijkstra as the advocate to carry out an evaluation. The PvdA is in favour of that. But that evaluation should be a little broader. I am very interested in the views of the Minister. So two specific questions to the Minister: is she prepared to extend the registration requirement to the front and back and is she prepared to broaden the evaluation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u114	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u115	I thought, "Let's do that dialect again with the two of us." If you blame me that a tractor and a moped are about the same, we say in the Twente: if you don't know that difference, then perhaps you're a dull one, Mr Von Martels will be able to translate it later. But then you don't have intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u116	Well, I know the difference between a moped and a tractor damn well. In my youth, when you were still busy developing a career as an outskirts group younger, I rode both mopeds and tractors. In addition, I also showed behavior that I saw recently in my then hometown of Winsum, where a employee of a payroll company on Saturday with the tractor I estimate about five or six tons rips through a narrow street to get a fries for the boys. That's why I'm pleading for registration. I don't do that directly to get a ticket. But if that just happens repeatedly and someone complains about it, then there's a neighborhood cop who says to the kid: "Oh, do it differently, and if you go through with it, we're really gonna maintain it." That is all the more in favour of introducing the registration requirement. I'm gonna find that out with Groningen's sobriety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u117	I welcome Mr Moorlag's plea. I leave his qualifications of the PVV out of the question. What I have missed are the bike, the cyclist and the consequences of this law for them. I am therefore curious whether Mr Moorlag of the PvdA, whom I know as a party with a warm heart for cyclists, believes that this increase in speed can lead to cyclists feeling even more unsafe and that we should be very careful about this. Does he agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u118	I see a dilemma there too. There's no glowing ambition in me to be in favour of that speed increase. But I have also understood what has happened within the coalition. Two things about that. Tractors are just colossal vehicles. I notice that at the moment many tractors already drive much faster than 25 km/h. When I drive a provincial road in North or East Groningen, the speeds are soon between 50 and 60 km/h. So I guess equipment isn't going to change that much. As far as I'm concerned, I didn't have to. On the other hand, there is also something to be said for the plea of, I believe, Mr Dijkstra, among others, to lead them outside the centre of the house. I am not going to put on a party hat for that idea, but without wanting to embrace it, we should rest in this compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u119	Locking up. You want to rest in the compromise, I understand. Could you support the proposal that we continue to monitor the effects on safety, including for cyclists and other vulnerable road users? Could you imagine, in that light, that we are also looking closely at the situation around schools? Kids go to and from school. What are the effects there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u120	I hope that with a speed increase there will be fewer tractors passing schools by using the roads around the built-up area, the ring roads. I have just called for a broader evaluation. We shouldn't just look at the costs. As far as I'm concerned, that's proportional. A broad evaluation, in which Mr Sienot's point has to be taken into account as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u121	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Mr von Martels of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u122	Thank you, Mr President. So far it has been a very entertaining debate, but of course it is about something. The subject has a rich history. Those who have followed the debates in the past have seen that the CDA has always taken a very critical stance in this area. Today's input will not differ from that. In that sense we continue on the same track; in this case the same tractor track. There has already been a previous variant of the implementation at the Lower House. At the time, we didn't think it was enough to support the law. Now there's a new variant. There have been improvements, but we still have a large number of concerns, for example in the area of avoiding a stepping stone to additional taxes and costs. I would like to mention a number of topics. I wonder if the Minister can take away our concerns about this. Mr. Chairman. I come to my first theme: preventing extra taxes and high costs. For the CDA, it is very important that the bill does not become a stepping stone to additional taxes on agricultural vehicles. The CDA welcomes the written commitment that the legislative proposal on agricultural or forestry tractors, limited speed motor vehicles, mobile machinery and existing vehicles which have not yet entered into force will be excluded from the bpm and from the mrb. Can the Minister confirm that the local authorities will not be given any opportunity, not even a mouse hole, to raise additional taxes through this bill? Can the Minister confirm that local authorities will not be able to create this possibility in the future as long as the House of Representatives does not allow it? The CDA would like to receive complete clarity on this point. We would also like to thank the Minister for an overview of the costs, which has created more clarity on this point. But in order to get a picture of whether the Netherlands is not on the high side in terms of costs, we would like to hear to what extent the costs incurred by this bill correspond to the costs in other Member States which are implementing the directive. Where are any differences? How can these be explained? What will be done if the costs are higher than expected? Furthermore, we understood that the Minister expects that no additional budget is needed to enforce the new obligations. Can the Minister explain this further? Furthermore, as a CDA, we consider it sensible if the Minister, in order to keep costs low, does not allow existing agricultural or forestry tractors, limited-speed motor vehicles, trailers and interchangeable towed equipment to be watched. Can the Minister promise that this is a structural measure and that these costs will not arise later? Can the Minister explain why she expects insurance costs to remain the same? We are also curious to see what the apk verification for fast agricultural or forestry tractors will look like. Does this inspection take place at the people's home or at a particular location? What are the costs? Was the design sought to avoid unnecessary costs? Then the last point of this block. The CDA is curious to see how many costs are prevented from reaching farmers. The CDA and the VVD have tabled an amendment. If the law is adopted, it would seem useful to the CDA to assess after three years whether the law is effective and what its effects are in practice. The cost impact should be specifically addressed in order, for example, to clarify whether the actual costs correspond to the expected costs, whether unnecessary costs are incurred, and whether the registration number has indeed not proved to be a stepping stone for additional taxes. We would like to hear a response to the amendment tabled. I come to the second theme, the registration. In principle, the government opts for a general registration requirement. We have always been critical of this. In view of the directive, it seems more logical to include only agricultural vehicles with a maximum construction speed of more than 40 km/h. This is the result of the European requirement for tractors. Why wasn't this chosen? To what extent did the position of decentralised road managers play a part in this? I come to the registration of trailers which combine with one or more trailers which are equipped for carrying stock boxes or crates, the so-called fruit trains. Existing fruit trains used on public roads shall be exempted from registration and registration requirements within the prescribed period from 1 July to 30 November. That is in itself a logical thought for the purposes of harvesting, you would say. However, it does mean that a user cannot take the fruit train on the public road in the remaining period. Why is this threshold being raised? We would like to have more clarity from the Minister. The Minister states that if the period is extended beyond the regular period of use, owners of more types of vehicles will rely on this exception to evade the approval and registration requirement. Can the Minister explain this further? Can she tell us what this is all about? Can the Minister also indicate to what extent fruit trains are used outside the harvest season? Are there any possibilities to make an application for occasional access to public roads outside the period 1 July to 30 November with the so-called fruit trains? I come to another subject, the marking in relation to road safety. A number of colleagues have already paid attention to this. I see that the focus is on this subject again. That is very good, because a positive element of the legislative proposal is that by adapting the Rules of Procedure, traffic rules and roadsigns 1990, agricultural vehicles can drive more efficient routes and need less to time, thus avoiding crowded and narrow village centres. This doesn't just increase efficiency. It can also improve road safety, as it can avoid unnecessary contact of agricultural vehicles with vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians. Can the Minister indicate to what extent it expects this to increase road safety? The Minister indicated that she would instruct the CROW platform to provide information to road managers and to draw up guidelines on whether or not to allow agricultural traffic. How's this going? Can the Minister undertake to agree with the CROW that the directives clearly state that it is important to act as far as possible in the spirit of this part of the law? I mean by that the part that sees in principle the release of rural roads and bypasses for agricultural traffic. I come to the historic agricultural vehicles. In my view, this has not yet been addressed by my colleagues, but I see that Mrs Kröger probably has a question on road safety. I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u123	Or about the little fruit train. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u124	I can surprise everyone by asking a question about the fruit train now, but I'm going to ask a question about road safety. It was quite a long story by Mr Von Martels, especially about costs and efficiency. Next came a short and powerful block about road safety. He basically emphasized the positive opportunities of this proposal because of the more efficient routes. Does Mr von Martels also see that the fact that we then have inspections and that there will then be a registration number, which can also strengthen enforcement with regard to drivers' behaviour, are precisely the elements of this legislative proposal which would make this proposal possible to contribute to road safety? That is still separate from the 40 km/h and the place where tractors are allowed to drive. I'm really talking about the apk and maintaining it on license plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u125	We see the advantage of that. I have tried to stress that this point in particular will certainly bring benefits for road safety. We also like the increase in speed, because you see that if tractors are moving too slowly, the differences in speed with other road users are getting too big. Then there is a tendency to pass, with dangerous situations as such. But the answer to the first question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u126	Good. If we find that an apk-test can indeed contribute to road safety, should we not use that apk-test more broadly than just for the group of vehicles that are now being sorted out in the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u127	We are talking very specifically about the 40-plus tractors, so we shall call them 'cause that is the group that benefits most from the new legislation. Those tractors may also drive on the access roads. We therefore consider it justified to say that this must be subject to an approval procedure. I think Mrs Kröger has listened very carefully to my story. We are so afraid that all kinds of new rules will be adopted and that additional rules will be introduced, thus increasing costs. So we don't want to go beyond this particular group, the 40-plus tractors, because it's actually less relevant to the other group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u128	Finalizing, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u129	The last sentence about the fact that it is less relevant for that group raises a question. Because when you look at SWOV's reports, when you look at the number of fatalities, when you see how much effort we make in the Netherlands to increase road safety, the ambition is zero fatal road fatalities, and when I think of the debates we have had about the stint, where it was all about more enforcement...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u130	Mrs Kröger, shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u131	... then my question is why Mr von Martels says: we should not take these measures for that group of tractors from 25 km/h to 40 km/h.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u132	Of course, for all tractors drivers, road safety and separate lanes must always be taken into account. I also say in my section on the CROW that it is very important for us to know what the consequences are. We would like to comment seriously on the advice they provide to us, to see if there are any useful elements to apply. But you're right about my first input. It was strongly focused on reducing costs. Road safety will not change so much by whether or not these tractors have been approved. That apk inspection itself doesn't change road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u133	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u134	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u135	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u136	I see there may be another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u137	I can't leave it. I'm from the Betuwe, so I'm gonna have to bring up that little fruit train. Those are nice things. These are narrow tractors that can run between the trees, but are long. For example, on each cart you can have a cub of apples. You mentioned the dates of the harvest season. You probably don't want the fruit trains out there on the N-road, I guess. But you do want to be able to use them for activities or other purposes. Can you explain a little more why you should say: in April you should be able to use such a fruit train for certain activities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u138	Of course, that depends on the entrepreneur himself. Under specific circumstances, they may wish to apply for an exemption. My only question is: is there going to be an exemption or not? I would ask that to at least shed a bit more light on the opportunities for entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u139	That sounds wise, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u141	Then we move on to the historic agricultural vehicles. I don't think they've been discussed yet. The CDA wonders why the choice was made for over 50 years of age and not for over 40 years of age. I also read that for historic agricultural vehicles which were put into service before 1978, the possibility of carrying the historic blue registration plate is being created. When this opportunity comes, we think it's a good step. However, we are curious how the Minister arrived at the year 1978. I'm just getting to a little block, the other block. It is one more A4's, but because of my age they are big letters. Well, that'll save you. Firstly, I would like to thank the Minister for releasing the date of 20 May 2020 as the end of the conversion period by means of a letter of amendment and for replacing it with a time to be determined by royal decree. In fact, we attach sufficient preparation and implementation time. Can the Minister promise that the new date will be discussed in close contact with the relevant sectors? We are also wondering whether it is true that in addition to the Netherlands eight other Member States are still failing to implement the directive. If so, how does the European Commission deal with this? The Minister states that the Government is not aware of the aspect of the Directive that the other Member States have failed to comply with. Isn't this information public? Or can't the minister figure it out? The Minister further states that the RDW, the National Road Traffic Agency, is currently working on an implementation test to see how the central exemption window can be implemented. How's this going? Will it indeed be a simple and inexpensive application and issue process for exemption? We are also wondering if there is already more information about what the information campaign is going to look like. We would also like confirmation that this bill will not unintentionally allow rescue companies to deal with a compulsory tractor licence for the vehicles they use to transport a lifeboat on the beach. Is it true that this bill doesn't change anything with regard to these vehicles? Mr President, I will conclude. The CDA is curious about the Minister's answers to the questions asked. These are important for the CDA Group to be able to properly assess whether it can agree to the law before us today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u142	Indeed, I am curious as to what is decisive for the CDA. Spokesman Van Helvert of the CDA was very clear two years ago. He said no registration. If the registration requirement remains in the bill, does the CDA still say: then we're done; we're not going to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u143	At the moment, you will not hear a final judgment from me, but perhaps in the second term. Then perhaps you should ask this question again. We have so many questions to the Minister for a reason. The answers we get will be decisive for us: do we choose to support this bill or not? Maybe I'll see you at the interrupt microphone again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u144	I'm sure I'll come back in the second term, but then this becomes a question of conscience. You're a farmer. Experience expert. What would you advise your group if the registration requirement were to remain in the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u145	During my speech, I tried as much as possible to raise the many questions I have. It would be weird if you were asking questions, but not curious about the answer. I don't know all the answers yet. I am really curious as to what kind of redeeming answers the Minister might be able to give, so that it will be easier for me to give an opinion to my colleagues in the group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u146	But does the CDA release the license plate, or is it just a tough demand that it gets out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u147	You can try again, but I said what I said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u148	Thank you. I call Mr Sienot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you, Madam President. For D66, security is paramount. With this law we are taking a step in making traffic safer. That was high time, because it has been discussed for seven years. Several speakers have already referred to this. In addition: if you want to get on the road with a fast e-bike or with a scooter, you need a license plate, but if you want to do that with a large tractor of a few tons, not. Actually, it's very simple for us: equal monks, equal hoods. Are you in on the traffic? Then you must be recognizable and traceable. It doesn't solve everything, but it takes a step. During the farm protests we also saw how convenient it can be when tractors have their own license plate. Farmers "screw" fences and almost hit cyclists. Of course, everyone has the right to demonstrate, and I say this to Mr Van Aalst and to the CDA, but not to make traffic more unsafe anonymously. And that's what we're talking about here. Even in large cities such as Amsterdam, anonymous, parked tractors cause congestion in the already busy alleys. Building companies are thus trying to circumvent environmental standards. The police cannot simply issue fines for this, because there is no registration number on the vehicle. There are some 250 accidents every year involving agricultural vehicles. That is why it is right that this law should give the police a means to trace and, if necessary, punish people who commit road offences with tractors. D66 therefore wants this law to come into force quickly. We therefore ask the Minister if the RDW is well prepared for all registration applications, so that there is no sand in the engine. The Council of State advises that, in anticipation of the legislative proposal, information should be rapidly launched and that quick tractors should be able to be inspected. How does the Minister assess this opinion? Is that what she's gonna do? We also ask the Minister how she will prevent a clot in the pipeline from arising because all the owners of tractors postpone the application for registration until December 2024. Mr. Chairman. The introduction of this law increases road safety in different ways. The registration requirement contributes to a more responsible use of the vehicles. In addition, the increase in the maximum speed can prevent agricultural vehicles from going through the built-up area because they can drive the faster roads around it. Several speakers have already referred to it. A concern that we do still have, I have already mentioned it in the interrupting debate: are all agricultural tractors going to be driving at a higher speed on all roads? Mr Moorlag of the PvdA also said it, as an expert in experience. I spend a lot of time in the country myself when I'm with family. You can see they're speeding up. Is it perhaps possible to ask road managers not to allow tractors on certain routes or at certain times? Think about roads at schools, when the school starts or ends. You could also think of building cycle paths on busy roads with a lot of agricultural traffic. Then hikers and cyclists can easily move side by side between the villages and municipalities. In the end, that is the essence: that together you use the road safely. In short, how will the Minister protect vulnerable road users such as cyclists and pedestrians? Which brings me to the following. Cyclists do not produce harmful emissions such as CO or nitrogen, but most other vehicles do, and tractors do. Now we want to move towards 100% emissions-free transport in 2030 for all newly sold cars. D66 therefore wonders: can the apk obligation also ensure that we bring tractors into the ambitions for clean air? Can the Minister promise to use the potential space for this, so that we can see equal monks, equal hoods? Mr President, I will conclude. We're glad the law's in place. It's been quite a while. It is therefore a good thing that this Minister has succeeded in getting this proposal here, and also with such broad support from civil society, to get this proposal sold to us as a Chamber. As far as we are concerned, we are now getting on with it, because anonymous tractors do not contribute to safer and cleaner traffic, and tractors with a registration number do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u150	I share Mr Sienot's analysis that the apk offers an opportunity to contribute to the reduction of nitrogen emissions, to clean air and so on. My question is: should we not use the apk instrument for tractors below 40 km/h, so between 25 km/h and 40 km/h, for example, to check that a soot filter has not been removed, so that nitrogen reduction can be achieved in another way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u151	That is an interesting question from Mrs Kröger. I always see it that way: every step forward is one in your ambitions. This is such a step forward. We've all heard how much it's been fought. I think this is an important step forward. I also see that the tractors that are most involved in traffic and can also drive the fastest, where it is conceivable that they will now be subject to most CO and such emissions. For that group behind it... Anything you could do about new steps, of course, you should never turn away, because in the end we want emission-free everywhere. But I think that's a bridge too far right now. As I said, the glass is half full for me. There's a nice proposal. Let us put that into practice at least now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u152	I hear Mr Sienot saying: at least now let us continue with this law. I fully agree with that. But he also says that it could be possible, for example, if there is really significant nitrogen gain to be achieved or if they contribute at all to clean air, to really look at the group of vehicles that are currently excluded from the obligation to catch; when I read the reports, I think that this is a significant group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u153	I think it's okay to have one thing very sharp. One thing is that you're going to say: we have an instrument to monitor the progress of cleaner vehicles and see what we can do to get them into it. Something else is to say: we also throw it wider, for all kinds of other vehicles. In fact, I think that is perhaps a difference between D66 and GroenLinks: you also have to work very hard on the alternatives. Are the clean alternatives there yet? Before we come up with new demands or scare-making that we are going to expand this heavily, I would rather say to the sector first: let's see what alternatives there are, and then see if we can do something about it there too. But for the moment, this is there. It's a step forward. We'll embrace this and get to work on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u154	No, Mrs Kröger, you will no longer have the floor. I'm gonna take a look at the clock, too. Mr Van Aalst or Mr Moorlag will now have the floor. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u155	I'm just thinking about how to interpret D66's argument. You say, "Good bill, quick introduction." But that's not really necessary for D66, is it? Your colleague from agriculture argues here: we're just gonna demolish those farmers, we're gonna halve them. There won't be any more tractors in a minute, will there? Then you won't have to introduce a registration requirement at all, will you? Isn't it much more convenient to just press that position about halve the number of farmers in the Netherlands down the throat of the VVD, because they swallow everything anyway? Then we solved it right for you, didn't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u156	Those are very short turns. I do not know what kind of tractor Mr Van Aalst is sitting on, but that is not mine. D66 wants farmers with fewer cattle to be able to earn more, but we do not say anything about tractors and about the way farmers earn, other than whether less cattle can be earned. We just have a big nitrogen problem that we need to solve. In that we dare to make choices. We are talking about the license plate in this debate. This is an important way of making traffic safer. Well, then, let me cut you a little bit. Anything we can do to halve the number of road victims or, rather, bring them to zero: all the way to the top. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u157	That goal of bringing the number of road deaths back to zero, of course, we share. You know that about us. The point is that your party wants to halve the number of farmers. So you don't have to enter a license plate at all. And we are talking here today about the registration requirement, but you were the party that came up with all those electric tractors and all that noise about zero emissions. Electric tractors that don't exist? Oh, come on, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u158	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u159	Would you just insist that your colleague still wants to halve the number of farmers? Then we don't have to put in a license plate and then he can just tear down those farmers. And then you'll have your way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u160	I have only one thing to say about this, and that is: look for electric tractors, because there are a lot more than you think. The good thing is that if you can pay the investment it also gives a nice return, because you have much less fuel costs. So why don't you take a look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u161	Mr Sienot uses good arguments in terms of road safety and the promotion of enforcement, but he also says: equal monks, equal hoods. There are all kinds of four-wheeled vehicles with both front and rear registration plates. Does Mr Sienot agree with me that it is desirable that agricultural vehicles on both the front and the rear should also bear a registration number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u162	I think that's a good question. Quite frankly, you would say that it makes sense to have it on both sides, but that is not what this proposal says. We have embraced this proposal as a step forward. So the honest answer is that if there is a way to do that and the Minister is open to it, that seems to me to be a very logical move. If that is not feasible for all kinds of reasons which the Minister can probably better indicate than I do, then I can understand that. That's how honest I want to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u163	If you commit an offense while driving away from a camera, you'll be spotted, registered and prosecuted, while if you commit that same offense and drive to the camera, enforcement and prosecution will become more difficult. That is an undesirable situation from the point of view of "equal monks, equal hoods"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u164	I don't really have much to add to it or to change it. That's peasant logic. I'm actually curious what the Minister has to say about that. I myself say this is now there. Right now, they're driving completely anonymous. That's gonna change. The anonymity may be halved but in any case they are much better traceable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u165	Thank you. Finally, Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u166	Thank you, Mr President. The message of the Research Council for Safety in 2010 was not misunderstood: unsafe agricultural traffic causes accidents too often. That was the essence of the message. The enforcement policy would be too lax. This is a concern for the fraction of the SGP, but the big question is whether a registration requirement for all tractors will actually improve it. Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group had mixed feelings about the previous legislative proposal, which was agreed at the time. And those mixed feelings haven't been completely removed by this bill. I understand that the Minister says that costs are limited, €30 per license plate, but you also have to consider the accumulation of rules in this sector. It's, all in all, over half a million vehicles. We are talking about all types of vehicles, including tractors, trailers and all kinds of equipment. The law is combined with an increase in speed and a single point of contact for exemptions by road managers. I understand that combination; in the interruption with Mr Dijkstra it has already become clear why this is a logical combination in a sense, certainly politically. But I still hold my heart like a six-ton tractor with 40 km/h over a village intersection. My question to the Minister is: will the Minister prevent this by maintaining the speed within the built-up area for agricultural vehicles at 25 km/h, with exceptions for, for example, access roads and bypasses without cyclists? Then there is the registration requirement, the head of the EU directive. The Minister says that you need it for enforcement, but on standing is enough registration. And for the maintenance of the usage requirements and the apk-obligatory you need a standing position; you can't just take that off with a camera. Only for speed control you would no longer need a standing position with a camera and license plate. Then I wonder: how many times will this be checked on the basis of that license plate? And standing is already possible. The Minister chooses to require a license plate until 2025 only if there is a faster drive than 25 km/h. Okay, part of the fleet, which is relatively low on the public road, will then remain free of the registration fuselage. Can we not see if this line can be extended after 2025, for example by installing a weighing moment in 2023? Well, at least you know how things work out in practice. This could be in line with the amendment tabled by Mr von Martels and Mr Dijkstra, asking in particular to look at the financial aspects. You can broaden that by making a broader evaluation of it. Is the Minister prepared to do so? There will be an exception to the registration requirement for fruit trains and narrow-track tractors, as well as to the requirement for vehicles operating mainly on agricultural grounds. I can imagine that the latter exception could also apply to the registration requirement. I would like to hear from the Minister exactly how she intends to pour these exceptions into the barrel. Is it prepared to look at farming practice and to follow it as closely as possible? Finally, we must not make commitments greater than is necessary. And one of the bones that is stuck in the throat of the SGP Group is that it is now formally the case in relation to the European directive that we should have already complied with. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. And I want to take the opportunity right away to apologize. I am replacing Mr Stoffer, but my agenda actually forces me to leave you all after the first term. And you understand, especially under your presidency, that that happens with bleeding heart. But I try to carry that manly and hope that next time I will be able to contribute again under your inspiring leadership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. This is sad news, but all understanding. I'm looking at the clock. We'll suspend until 4:15. Then we will have the answer from the Minister in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u168	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The input was very diverse. It has been a lively debate, even in the first term. First of all, let me explain the legislative proposal in more general terms. Then I come to a few very specific questions raised by the members of the Chamber. Many people have already mentioned it in their contributions: this is a very balanced proposal. Of each party, that applies not only to the parties here in the Chamber but also to the parties in the field, no one will probably say: this is 100% as I would have liked it to be. But that's how it works with compromises: you always try to do justice to all the interests of all parties, and then finally come to something for which there is real support. That is also the case here, because we also have the support from the sector for this. It has also been recalled that, of course, it has all started with the EU directive that we have to comply with. This means that we must introduce an obligation to do so. We are talking about vehicles used for agricultural or fisheries purposes, which are mainly used in the areas for which they are intended. We have made an exception for this because, of course, the main focus of the use is on public roads. An important part of this whole is, of course, road safety. Mrs Kröger, Mr Sienot and, in fact, everyone has reported this. What's an obligation to do about it? The necessary examples have already come by, whether it is about brakes, lighting and so on. Of course, it is important that this is monitored regularly. To what extent exactly will this contribute to road safety? You can't quantify that so easily, but the fact that it gets better is also obvious. From the increase in speed, which is also part of this package, the expectation is real, and so we share that expectation with the VNG, the IPO, the police and the prosecution, that it will contribute to road safety, precisely because you can take out the great speed differences as Mr Von Martels mentioned it much more and because you can deliver much more local customization. Certain roads, where we often talk about the bypass around a village centre, are made accessible because these vehicles are allowed to drive faster there. So yes, we all expect it to promote road safety. The Chamber talks about evaluations and asks: shouldn't you be monitoring that properly? Of course, not only from me in the Ministry, but also from the other parties, we will follow that well. We are also happy to draw the same end of the rope together, because the provinces, the municipalities, the public prosecutors and the police, as well as the sector, naturally want this road safety to be as high as possible. So we're all looking very closely at how to work that out, but we expect positive results because that tractor doesn't have to go through that narrow village street, along that school or along that sports field, but it can be delivered tailor-made and such a vehicle can also be diverted outside the busy, narrow areas. Perhaps we should also explain the differences with the previous legislative proposal. At least the desired speed increase is in it. This is also important, for example, for CUMELA, for the employees. They have not yet been specifically mentioned, but on the contrary they would like to use these very large work vehicles on the public road in order to be able to work more efficiently. They too consider it important for road safety. I think we can do something here that they too could be very satisfied with. The establishment of a central exemption point is, I think, also an important improvement, because then you do not have to arrange it in different ways in different provinces. The conversion period for the existing vehicles has been adjusted. The end date has now been set at a later date, which means that there will also be a winter period. That was important for the sector. Furthermore, the obligation to carry a registration plate does not apply immediately to all existing vehicles. A transitional period is provided for. It will last until 31 December 2024, so we have established it in good consultation with each other. It has also been agreed to include in the lower legislation an exception to the requirement for vehicles which, as I said, are used for agricultural or fisheries purposes and which mainly drive around on their own premises and areas. The first question asked is: what is the alternative? Can't we just not do it? Apart from the intergroup procedure that has already been initiated from Europe, I shall deal with this more and more in detail later on, you will have to set up a system anyway. You're gonna have to put in an obligation. And if you're gonna be able to maintain it, at least if you didn't do it through the plates, you're gonna need a registration system. So you should have a system set up anyway and then you get bureaucracy; that's inevitable. We have therefore come to the conclusion that this registration requirement is simply the most efficient way of registering. Because we're already used to that. With all kinds of other vehicles we are used to a registration; this has been mentioned by several members. It is simply a cheap way of registering; I am looking at Mr von Martels in particular. That is why we chose to do so. It offers more benefits in that sense. So what's the alternative? If you only enter the mandatory apk, you also have to set up a system for that, which also involves costs. So this seems like a really good way to do that. What wouldn't you have? Then, of course, you don't have the speed increase that the sector is asking for. You wouldn't have arranged it. You could do that separately in another bill, but then the balance has disappeared from the house of cards, because we have really had several rounds of discussions with all the parties involved to achieve this balance. For example, provinces and municipalities said that we want to introduce this speed increase, but we want to be able to maintain it more easily. That's what the police and the D.A. reported. That's how everyone has their accents. Mr Sienot put it nicely: no one will have gotten 100% his way, but that is how it works if you want to get support. Here, I think, are benefits for everyone. As far as I am concerned, the main advantage that we can get from this is to improve road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u170	The latter is interesting, but let me start with the story that the introduction of this obligation is mandatory. That's only 8,000 vehicles. The effect of imposing the full registration requirement is much greater, because it does not apply only to the 8,000 agricultural vehicles which, according to Brussels, have to be used. That does not depend on whether you want it or not, but we have absolutely nothing to do with Brussels' obligation. We are not going to let Brussels impose it; we are done with it. The only thing the Minister is doing now is to add that head of registration for all those agricultural vehicles. She can't deny that, can she? She may say it's all a bit more efficient and that it was so easy, but I say no. 8 000 vehicles are designated by Brussels as compulsory and this Minister now makes it possible for all tractors to be covered by the registration requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr Van Aalst is well aware that not all tractors will be covered, because I have just mentioned all the exceptions. That runs from the fruit trains to... Well, you know them all from the proposal. It goes fundamentally wrong with the view of the PVV, because you are actually pretending that we can simply put that obligation aside from Europe. The only option you have for that is that there would be a majority in the Netherlands for a nexit. Well, there is absolutely no such thing. So we must, whether you like it or not, simply comply with that regulation. If we do have to do that, you will all see how we can do it in such a way that there is support for it, including in the sector, including in provinces and municipalities, as well as in IPO and VNG. And then you come to this proposal. I think we can also make a profit in terms of road safety, and that is why I think this is a better alternative than just doing what Brussels needs to do. You must always think for yourself and not simply take over what is prescribed. I think you should also be enthusiastic about us choosing our own way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u172	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have not seen this coming back so often in this period of government, and that is a pity. But we do agree on that. Mr. Chairman. Secondly, road safety. This would make a difference in terms of road safety, but I wonder. I have not yet found a single piece in which that has been established with certainty. So we obviously cannot measure it, but we note that it does something for road safety. I dispute that, in fact: I think it may have a negative impact on road safety. Next we get roads where we let tractors drive at 40 km/h and all those drivers drive there with 80 rear. Can you see that? You know exactly how that goes. They all ignore it, and that brings with it terrible situations. I don't have to refer to the N36, but that's the kind of situation you see every day on the N36 and the N35. That's what this brings with it. Is that what the Minister means by improving road safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u173	If you look at what all the experts have said about this, there are more people who expect an improvement than they expect a decline. You're actually the first person I've heard talking about it like that. Several MPs have just recalled that within the built-up area, where they now have to drive, there is much more contact with vulnerable road users like pedestrians and cyclists than on that bypass around the village. You'll always have to look locally at customization, and I have every confidence that IPO and VNG are going to do it very well and securely. I am looking at Mrs Kröger, because it is indeed about the environment of a school, for example. Of course they'll see if you have to do it there or not. I am really confident that this will be properly completed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr Van Aalst, briefly. Shall we agree to do interruptions in two, because...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u175	A brief comment, Mr President. We are in complete agreement on this inner-city facility. I fully agree with the Minister, but we saw in Hengelo a terrible example of how things could go wrong. That had to do with the fact that the municipality left it behind for years. Indeed, our inner city infrastructure is very often not equipped with the separation of agricultural traffic and cyclists. But you can't say "we're gonna get rid of it and we're gonna solve everything by taking it outside the cities," because that's not the case, of course, and so does the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u176	No, but Mr Van Aalst should not now put me in the mouth that I would think that this would solve all the problems. I'm not saying that. I am just saying that it is expected that this will lead to an improvement and that is actually shared by all the experts. I have just recalled that I very much agree with the view I have just heard in the Chamber that we must of course follow that closely and that we must monitor how that develops. If things are not going well against all expectations, then we must, of course, take measures together. But for the time being, I'm basing myself on all the advice we've been given on this. So it does seem to offer opportunities for improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u177	I would like to add a little to Mr Van Aalst's critical note, as well as his observation that it is very often lacking in good cycling infrastructure and bicycle paths within the built-up area. It is good to hear this plea from the PVV for more bike. It is actually a yes-unless provision: 40 everywhere, and otherwise it is up to the municipality to arrange it. Then the question to the Minister is: should you not say within the built-up area that maintaining on the 25 is what is safe, and that is not good in the built-up area?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u178	Then I come back to the local customization, because of course there are always exceptions, such as on access roads. So you always have to look at how it works in practice. I'm just confident that municipalities are doing the right thing. We're partners in the Strategic Road Safety Plan. I very much share your plea for safe bicycle infrastructure. We have recently concluded that for the next ten years we will also have 500 million infrastructure from the Empire available for road safety. I have already indicated that the bicycle is extremely important, precisely because we have more deaths on our bike than in the car in the last few years. So it's an en-en-story. We should not think that this proposal is the solution to our road safety problems at once, not at all. But it can make a contribution. I really do have that expectation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u179	Mrs Kröger, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u180	I welcome the commitment made by the Minister when she says that we really need to monitor the impact of this law on road safety. But as far as the point of 'yes, unless' is concerned, I would say again: within the built-up area it is simply maintaining at 25, unless there are reasons not to. This way you have within the built-up area the 25 km/h as standard. What does the Minister think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u181	Then I'm repeating myself. As I have just said, municipalities themselves are very well equipped to deliver that municipal customization. They are of course also kept sharp by municipal councils. There are always exceptions. In each municipality there are a few access roads that one wants to treat in a different way. It matters if you're somewhere in a 30-mile zone or if it's a 50-mile route, and so on. That is really the customization that we need to be able to leave to municipalities. The same applies when it comes to the provincial roads. That's what the county's looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u182	Mrs Kröger, I would really like to do the interruptions in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u183	Mr President, I would like to sit down again and then stand for another interruption in two, but this point of road safety is, as far as I am concerned, at the heart of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u184	But you just received a promise, and the Minister said she was repeating herself. Doesn't that strike me as enough discussion on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u185	The Minister also says that there are always exceptions. I would like to ask her about the traffic situation she presents: doesn't the Minister think that in the majority of the urban area where these types of vehicles are going to run, 25 km/h is really more responsible than 40, and that this should be the norm? The exceptions should indeed be subject to 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u186	I repeat: I have the confidence that municipalities will do so in a good way. Of course it will be in most cases, but we do not have to impose a standard on municipalities. They are quite capable of making that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u187	Mrs Kröger, this is not the answer you want, but I feel that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u188	But Mr. Chairman, by laying down 40 km/h in the law, we're imposing a standard, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u189	Mrs Kröger, you have had your answer. Maybe it's not the answer you want, but the Minister has been clear, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u190	I was given the impression that you would like to lay down the 25 standard everywhere within the built-up area. That is going too far for me, because there may be a way out of which a municipality can say very well-founded: no, here we are going for 40. So I just want to leave that possibility with municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u191	Before the Minister continues, I have just forgotten to make a service announcement. In view of the votes that are also on the agenda and out of loyalty to our colleagues, all of whom are bound to have other plans for this evening, the following. I now give the Minister the room for her first-term response. Then we will briefly hold the VAO JHA Council and the subsequent votes. After the VAO, we will continue with the second term of this debate. So that requires some from the Minister and from these spokesmen, but I think it is so neat to our colleagues. Then you know that. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u192	Okay, thank you for this service announcement. Then I'll go straight on to the subject of road safety. We have been asked how many victims can be prevented by this measure. It's very difficult to quantify. I therefore think that Mr von Martels and Mr Dijkstra rightly said that you should follow this closely for a few years. Of course, we're gonna monitor it from the start. But after six months you cannot see what the measure is doing for the number of victims, because there can always be a spike in it due to unfortunate circumstances, such as weather conditions. But that you have a desire not to wait five years for it, I can totally imagine. In this sense, therefore, I can also respond positively to the amendment to look at it after three years. Comments have been made on enforcement. This also applies to the fact that this number plate is not suddenly the solution to all problems. I am, of course, right to say that those Members who have said that it is possible to maintain it. It's possible. It can be maintained now, but with license plates it's easier. That is the crucial difference: you are greatly facilitating it. The examples that have been mentioned of all kinds of other vehicles that we have also given a registration number for that reason are therefore not about it being possible in any other way. But it's simply easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u193	In line with the SGP colleague, who is no longer present, let me put a question to the Minister. What changes in enforcement for that time, except for the beloved flash pole that bakes the state treasury? What other enforcement are we going to do that we can't do now, without license plates?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u194	Then I'm gonna fall into repetition again. It's not things you can't do right now, but you can do it much easier. I would like to draw your attention to the examples that have been mentioned. If you have to keep someone standing and you have a license plate that is recorded in a register, then you also have the NAW data and everything at hand. It's just... it's all easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u195	I don't understand, because it's no different than it is now. Now people also have their papers with them and they need to be able to identify themselves. In fact, now it's not just about the trigger, now it's even about the driver, who has to get the fine. So I think it's much better now, because now you're talking to the driver. The trigger could be owned by someone else. So what changes the license plate except for the flashing? Because that's the story. I can understand why there's only a license plate at the back, because we don't flash at the front, so let's make it nice on the back. Can the Minister just admit that this does not make any sense at all and that the registration requirement is only intended to make public money and not to help farmers or road safety?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u196	It is certainly not driven by a motivation to bacon the state treasury. There are also really no plans to set up all kinds of lights on the outskirts. That is absolutely not the intention. I just indicated to you that there should be a registration system for the apk. So you have to set up a system anyway, and then a license plate is a very appropriate way, which we also apply to all kinds of other vehicles, which ensures that it remains affordable and that it facilitates enforcement a bit. But it's not like you couldn't maintain right now. We didn't say that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u197	That's a different story than the one from the D.A.'s office. I just referred to the district attorney who was responsible and to the staff magazine Opportuun. She literally says, "We couldn't maintain. Not because we didn't want to. Not because we didn't understand the law. But because it just wasn't stopping." All those thousands of tractors, that massity, you can't maintain. But with license plates, things would've gone a lot better. That's what she says. However, I would like a response from the Minister. The minister said, "You can maintain now." The district attorney says, "No, I just can't do that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u198	The district attorney doesn't say you can never maintain at all. The D.A.'s office indicates a very exceptional situation in which there were large numbers of people involved, and that was not the case. But I am saying here that you can now keep an individual tractor parked somewhere wrong, driving somewhere where it is not allowed to drive, etc., and so on. Therefore, enforcement is now possible. Of course, there are exceptional cases, of which this is an example. Because it was very massive here at once, the prosecutor says: in this particular situation we could not maintain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u199	It is not that unique, because it happened three times in the month of October: on 1 October, on 16 October and end of October by the builders. And it could happen again in a minute. How is the Minister going to guarantee that enforcement will take place immediately if people cause very dangerous situations? And that's what happened. How does the Minister guarantee that action can be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u200	If it's happened three times, I still think it's exceptional. I also think it is up to the farmers not to take this kind of action. I have always called on the participants in these actions not to endanger road safety, so as to take it into account as much as possible. The vast majority of them have done the same. They have complied with the incentives of the police, of road inspectors from the State of Water and so on. Because it's not my experience that the average action farmer was out to create dangerous situations. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u201	Mr Wassenberg, briefly. We'll do it in half, but you'll do it all in threes now. I'd like it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u202	One more. Mr President, that it is indeed... Now I've been kicked out of my ass!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u203	You're out of control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u204	Yeah, you totally messed me up. Most activists did indeed do well and colored within the lines, but it has gone wrong too often. How does the Minister guarantee that we will not get protests again and say: we cannot maintain, because no plates, there is no action against them. It's about how you deal with the evil ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u205	If that happens again next month, I can't guarantee it, because I don't have any other instruments at the moment. If we have tractors driving around with license plates, a part of it will be a little easier. That's right. That's exactly what I'm saying: it's not that it can't be done at all now, but it makes it easier. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u206	Very briefly, for my understanding: we now regulate with the law that the standard speed will be 40 km/h. Municipalities have to arrange it back to 25 km/h for the settlement. Is there anything to say to turn that around? We're still working on that law. We can say: the standard is 25 km/h in the built-up area and around it municipalities can arrange that it is 40 km/h in the case of exceptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u207	That's exactly what the discussion was about. Municipalities and provinces now want to move on to allowing a higher speed. For them it was important that there should be a registration requirement. That's exactly how it's gonna work now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u208	Mr. Sienot, you're looking a little intriguing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u209	Yes, because then I don't fully understand the profits for the municipalities. I'm gonna add the registration. I understand it's going to be 40 km/h on all kinds of access roads, but I don't quite understand that this is going to be the new standard within the built-up area. I'd say give municipalities the space to make an exception where necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u210	But now Mr.Sienot pretends that the tractors are going to cart through every small alley with 40 km/h. No, I didn't mean to. Provinces and municipalities go together to see where they can and can't do that. This is being handled very pragmatically. I really wouldn't be too worried about that. It's often about roads. Those workers are not at all waiting for them to drive through a village. They themselves do not find it pleasant to be in constant contact with vulnerable road users. They'd rather drive on that bypass. This is now possible for municipalities; they are allowed to do so and can make that assessment. They can't right now. A municipality cannot now say: that tractor is allowed in our village at a higher speed along that bypass. You can't do that. How exactly is that going to be filled out? Let me also say to reassure you: I believe it is already mentioned by the CDA that CROW is going to draw up guidelines to help road managers: how can this choice be made in a responsible way, whereby they could allow agricultural traffic par excellence? Road safety is, of course, a prerequisite, because that is what we are doing to an important extent. As soon as this bill has been passed, not only here but also in the Upper House, CROW will be instructed to work it out as soon as possible. Then there's the number of victims. We're gonna follow that, but I can't really say anything about it substantiated. What's in it for you? This is mainly because we are removing the differences in speed between us. A question from Mr Sienot was whether it is possible for road managers to temporarily close roads for tractors. Yeah, that's possible. The balance for agricultural traffic remains with the road manager. If there is a special event or a detour due to work in a municipality, then a road manager always keeps the possibility to deliver customized services there. Am I prepared for an evaluation? I am certainly prepared to do so, as I have already said, so the opinion on the amendment is positive. I myself would not have so much difficulty in expanding that somewhat and at least taking the road safety aspects into account in this evaluation, but certainly also issues such as costs, practicality and so on, as Mr von Martels put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u211	It is good that the Minister says she wants to accept the amendment, but the amendment was intended to be as broad as possible. We have not for nothing mentioned the words 'efficiency' and 'effects' in this amendment. I heard the SGP ask the question: how wide do you want it to be? We've already put it very broadly. I hope that the Minister has read what we have in mind in the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u212	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I specifically mentioned the road safety effects, because I have heard the broad concern in the Chamber. It's about the whole of all the effects. Questions have been asked about other countries, including Mr Dijkstra: are we the only country without that duty? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Indeed, in a number of other countries, inter-group procedures have also been initiated. They are confidential, so we do not know exactly what is the reason for infraction in all those other countries. Mr Wassenberg spoke about fines. If we did not agree to this bill, the intergroup procedure would certainly be continued at some point. I'm just gonna say it very openly here. The only reason why they have not done so yet is that I was able to point to the European Commission: it has already been tabled and is with our Parliament. If it isn't agreed, then they'll take action. That's what they reported. They now see that we have made our efforts. There is a proposal that the European Commission also says: if you do this, you will do and we will be able to withdraw the group. If it is not accepted, it is of course over. Then it's about at least 2.9 million fines, anyway. That's the start. That's what it starts with. And then between €3,500 and €211,000 per day as a penalty payment if we don't do it. I do not know exactly where these amounts come from, but that is what the European Commission has determined. So there is no fine yet, but I really want to avoid that. I think that is also possible, because we now have a proposal that can count on broad support. It's not just a burden increase. Of course, if you have zero costs now and you have to pay later, even if it's only tens, that's a burden increase, especially if you have multiple tractors. I understand that, but otherwise we should also have a registration, which would always involve costs. There are also other advantages in this. I think we have a very well-defenseable overall proposal here. In France, vehicles that go faster than 40 km/h are not allowed. That is why there is a different situation with the obligation to do so. It has also been mentioned by several here that in most countries the obligation already applies. So the Netherlands is the country that is lagging behind with this. How is the central system of exemptions going to work, Mr Dijkstra asks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u213	One more question to clarify. I said in my speech that eight countries had failed or remained in default. Is that so? What topics are they not up-to-date on at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u214	I had just tried to say that it is true that there are factions against other countries, but they are confidential. So we do not know exactly what is going on in those other countries. The European Commission does not normally provide any information on this, except that you can see that those countries have not yet complied with it. But I don't know exactly how these discussions go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u215	A further question to clarify. It's also about the intergroup. Two years this has been going on. Then it was said: we will have proper sanctions if we are not very quick to introduce them. Now those two years have gone well. We haven't noticed. Why is this urgency so great?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u216	I don't think you've noticed much of it, but that's definitely different with us at the Ministry. The fact that this bill was killed in 2016 could not count on applause from Brussels. No, you'll be told that you still have to do it. Then there is understanding from the European Commission that there are elections and so on. A new cabinet will also have some time to prepare for it. We have even been able to explain to them that, precisely because it went wrong last time because of insufficient support, we still had to have time to make a supported proposal. That's what's in there now. If it is not adopted now, I am afraid that the European Commission will have no patience. So the fact that it has not been discussed on a daily basis here in the House of Representatives does not mean that we are not being held back!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u217	I find it a curious argument that the reason for infraction against other countries would be confidential. I think the Minister knows which countries they are. When I look at why it didn't come through in the Netherlands, I don't feel that it was all very confidential. In other countries, it seems to me to have to be steered by a parliament in the same way. So I find it strange that the Minister now informs us that it's all confidential and that she doesn't know why it's not coming through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u218	It is common practice for the European Commission not to communicate about intergroup procedures against countries. That is up to the Member States themselves. We ourselves are not secretive about this either, but it is not up to the European Commission to start explaining to Germany or France exactly what we are all doing. They're just one-on-one with us keeping those contacts. That's what they do to the other countries. So, if you want to know, we might as well go to those countries and find out what's going on with them, but it doesn't relieve us of the duty to get it resolved in the Netherlands. You have a lot of different situations in a lot of countries. Some, for example, have already had a registration system. Then, of course, you deal with your obligation in a different way than we do here in the Netherlands, where we have no registration yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u219	I am curious how other countries are in this now, which is the problem now, whether it actually comes to that and whether, as we are doing here now, we are going to push it through in other countries. So I'm curious. If the Minister can give us that, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u220	If the majority of the Chamber finds it interesting to know exactly what is going on in all those other countries, then we can start to ask them, but I do not think there would be any understanding of the European Commission to suspend it in political groups, so to speak, because we want information on all those countries that do not. I think that we will be told sooner: why don't you light up your light on all those countries that have already settled it properly? I would not want that to hinder the progress of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u221	Mr. Van Aalst, any response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u222	I think the Minister just made a commitment, and now she's starting to spin a little bit by saying: a majority of the Chamber. But I think the Minister just made the promise: if the Chamber needs it. Well, I need that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u223	You need that, but that's not the whole room yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u224	That is exactly what I wanted to report, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u225	That's what the Minister was trying to say, I believe. So if you need to do so, you can ask a Chamber to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u226	Yes, and if the Chamber wants to know that, then I will, of course, get on with it, just like with all the information requests from the Chamber. How is the central system going to work exemptions, Mr Dijkstra asks. The idea is really to create a one-stop shop for all vehicles that are too long, too wide, too high or too heavy, where an exemption for road access can be requested. The road manager shall indicate the roads and dimensions for which this applies. We are going to make this right at once, because the sector really needs to be able to do so as efficiently and practically as possible. By the way, I have just learned that it is no longer eight countries where an intergroup is still running, but only four, so we are really starting to fall behind in the last club. Mr von Martels and Mr Dijkstra also asked questions about the costs. The registration and registration costs are €18 during that conversion period. If the vehicle has to feed a registration plate, the plate will receive €12. So you're talking about a total amount of €30. I believe that we have made maximum efforts to reduce costs as much as possible. We will also ensure maximum convenience by also facilitating the process digitally. So we're gonna digitize the application. We are not asking for all kinds of information unnecessarily. We're gonna keep that lean-and-mean too, or put it in Dutch: rank and slim. We're not going to ask people unnecessary questions. We're really keeping that very limited. Vehicle owners can also register their vehicle digitally. Mr Von Martels mentioned it, and I am pleased to emphasise that: no sight of the vehicles by the RDW. People can handle all that digitally themselves. Other measures to reduce costs include the abolition of the obligation to carry a recognition plate....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Questions have been asked about this: why not on the front? It is precisely in the interest of the support area that we have only done what is really necessary, and we have chosen to do it only at the rear and not at the front. It is a small part of the overall package, so the sector says: we are confident that we will not be rushed into unnecessary costs, so we can live with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u227	A brief question. I thank the Minister for the answer. This is of course interesting, because does it really give us a good grip on enforcement? Is it still a sufficient enforcement instrument, or is it actually being halved?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u228	No, it's really enough. We also comply with the directive. I just remind you of the engines in the Netherlands, which only have a license plate at the back. Enforcement is just as well regulated for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u229	I do not find the Minister's argument convincing. If it is possible in Germany and Belgium, why should you have an exception here in the Netherlands? I also read in the documents that there might be high costs. I've seen this on German tractors. There was some kind of glorified hose clamp around the exhaust pipe with a fixing. Even someone with two left hands might be part of that category..... is able to attach an additional license plate to the exhaust pipe of a tractor that sits at the front, so I don't get this very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u230	It is certainly not the case that the sector would not be able to confirm this in the front. That is absolutely not the problem. It simply has to do with our commitment and commitment towards farmers to keep costs as low as possible. There is also good maintenance possible with a license plate at the back, so let's not do more than strictly necessary. The costs for such a record and so on are added. That's why we can really keep it at €30. We didn't want to weigh it down unnecessarily. That was also important for the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u231	The tears almost shoot me in the eye with so much compassion for the sector, but let's have compassion for everyone. Why don't we simplify the law and also limit the obligation for cars to carry a license plate only at the rear? Surely violations can be committed in relation to multiple directions of the camera? I really don't get this. Sometimes you have to admit something to reach a compromise, but this is almost a form of homeopathic dilution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u232	You may not think it's important, but for the sector... Especially if you have multiple tractors in a sector that is, varyingly, very difficult, you should also look after the little ones. Again, with engines it is possible and there are more examples. That's why we chose to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u233	Locking up, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u234	That's three.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u235	I'm very economical, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u236	That's true. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u237	In conclusion, I would like to say the following. It is often said that there is a level playing field for the sector. The sector itself argues in favour of this. I do not understand why we should have an exception in relation to Belgium and, in particular, Germany. Sometimes it is said that the Netherlands is actually a kind of state of Germany. With the greatest agility of mind, I can't follow this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u238	I'll take note of that. I would also point out that there is no substantive choice. We are simply doing this to keep costs as low as possible. It can be done this way and you meet all the obligations in this respect. Again, the example of the engines is, I think, very clear. That's why we chose to do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u239	Is the proposal to carry two registration plates presented in the process and has it been fired by the sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u240	Of course, all the details have been discussed with the sector. For the sector, it is very important that we have done our utmost to ensure that costs are as low as possible. This is part of that. Of course, two plates are twice as expensive as one. Yeah, that's how simple the reasoning is. And if we don't have to, we won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u241	Mrs Kröger, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u242	I actually hear the Minister say that the Ministry has said preventively: we do not want to bring it up, because we do not want to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u243	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u244	The option of two plates has advantages. One disadvantage is that it costs €30 more. Has that option been on the table and has the sector fired it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u245	I don't know if one-on-one has been specifically said: if you don't do this, it won't happen. But of course it doesn't work that way in the negotiations either. You are talking about an overall package, and it has been very strongly urged by the sector on several occasions, and this has also been an important point in the previous legislative process in order to keep costs as low as possible. In this way we can also show the sector that costs are kept as low as possible, because we do not ask them for something that is not strictly necessary, namely a front registration plate. This also applies: the most important thing is that it comes up, so let us count our blessings. What is being done to ensure that these costs do not increase in relation to other countries? The example was already given of other countries where the costs are already higher, because the vehicles there also have to have a plate at the front. Some countries have long been subject to registration or registration requirements. In some cases, the cost of this has been included in the purchase of the vehicle. It will then be difficult to compare the Dutch situation with this. Mr Von Martels asked how we keep it as cheap and simple as possible. This is an example of this, showing that we are doing nothing more than strictly necessary. You also said that it should not be a coat rack for a motor vehicle tax or a tachograph. It's absolutely not. I say quite explicitly here, even at your request, that this is certainly not the case. This could only happen in the future if at that time a majority of the House wanted it to be. I therefore believe that it is sufficiently guaranteed that this is not just a matter of... There are no brackets in this law that you could do this with. The same applies to local authorities. They do not suddenly get their hands on something with which they could use the tractors as a milk cow. That is not possible; it could only be done with new legislation, here in this Chamber. Then the conversion period. A conversion period has been agreed with the RDW and the industry in which the existing fleet of agricultural and forestry tractors, limited-speed motor vehicles can be registered with the MMBS and their trailers which Mr Dijkstra dislikes. During this transitional period the registration of the vehicles concerned is also cheaper than in a regular situation. So vehicle owners can digitally record their vehicle. I say again: without a fireplace. That conversion period will also be at least six months long and include a winter period. This means that there is a little more time and opportunities to do so, because the sector is on average less busy in the winter. Since it is already January and the bill will have to be dealt with in the First Chamber after this, it is not feasible to start that conversion before the end of the winter of 2020. This has also been the reason why, in the letter of amendment, the deadline of 20 May 2020 is to be removed from the legislative proposal. I will, as I say in the direction of Mr von Martels, decide at a later date, in consultation with the sector, on the date on which that conversion period ends. But we have the agreement: at least six months and at least including the winter period. Of course, I am just as dependent on how quickly it will be dealt with in the First Chamber and so on before we know exactly where we stand. But it is likely that the deadline will be sometime in the spring of 2021. I said about the mandatory fireplace: we are not going to do that in the conversion period. If vehicles have not been registered during that conversion period and that still has to be done later, a fireplace will be needed. Also for this we have just practically driven: it is also cheaper during that conversion period. So there is also an incentive not to do all that at the last minute. And we make it digitally as easy as possible. By the way, there was another question about the registration plates at the front. You're quite interested in what that's like in other countries. Also in France, Poland, Norway and the United Kingdom there is no registration plate at the front of agricultural vehicles. So it is not that this is going to be completely unique for the Netherlands. Then I'll get to the other folder, Mr. Chairman. That can always create surprises. Mr Sienot asks: is the RDW well prepared for all registration applications? Yes. The RDW needs a conversion period of at least six months, but the process is designed in such a way that most of the applications can also be processed automatically, as I just indicated. You don't have to do a fireplace like that. Otherwise, of course, it would be extremely time-consuming. So with the estimates made together with the industry on the numbers, this is sufficient preparation. So the system is set up on it. And so realistic estimates have been made with the industry about the numbers. Mr von Martels asks if I can indicate how often fruit trains use the provincial road. This happens, of course, especially in the harvest season. There are no specific figures on how many fruit trains there are exactly how many kilometres. How did we get to this time window? This has been achieved in good consultation, including with the fruit sector. He says: with these deadlines we can get out of the way. Mr Bishop asked if a weighing moment could be built in in 2023. I think that this weighting has actually already been found in the amendment on an evaluation clause. Mr Bishop talks about 2023. I think that is about the three years of the amendment. The application for exemption for those fruit trains is not subject to the season. All year round, even in winter, that application can be made. But it has been agreed with the sector that all the use of these fruit trains can take place within the relevant months. They can get out of their way with that. Mrs Kröger asks: can the Minister confirm that the apk obligation can also help to improve the enforcement of vehicle emissions? When registering new tractors, it can be checked that the requirements for authorisation have been met, including as regards emissions. At the apk is of course checked for soot, by means of a soot measurement. Mr Dijkstra was pleased to see an end to the MMBS category. New ones don't add up with this bill, but the existing one would actually want the VVD off the road. You are right that no new ones are allowed; it is a death home construction. If you want to take out all those unwanted MMBSs, you have to look at all those vehicles too, with all the cost of that. We do not think that is necessary at the moment; that is undesirable. So how long that extinction will take depends on the number of vehicles. You mentioned the case of a cart that got caught because it drove 107 km/h. Yeah, well, then you just have to act enforcement. You can do that now. But there won't be any more new ones. How does the Minister assess the opinion of the Council of State? We have looked very seriously at these comments, especially in terms of providing adequate information on them. That's what we're working on. And CROW will be assigned as soon as the bill is passed. A specific question: can the Minister guarantee that the rescue company on the beach, for example, will not be affected? Even now, vehicles have to meet the requirements when they get on the road. I very much agree with Mr von Martels that we should not get into trouble in the case of rescues. But we also have no signs that this would be the case. So I don't think there's a problem there. How did the Minister reach the year 1978 in relation to the exception for road registrations for historic agricultural vehicles? The yellow retroreflective registration plate was introduced on 1 January 1978. Yeah, of course not everyone had that in mind right away. All vehicles with a date first authorisation after 1977 must therefore also have yellow plates. We have joined in for these vehicles, because it is logical that you can only have a blue one for vehicles prior to the introduction of the yellow registration plate. It would be a little crazy to deviate from that. Why was the exemption from the old-timer's obligation chosen for an age of 50 instead of 40, for example? Now only vehicles from before 1960 are exempted. Those 50 years were also chosen in consultation with the RDW and the industry. It is important, however, that these vehicles hardly participate in traffic anymore, which also has a minimal impact on road safety and the environment. With us in Brabant there is such a celebration of historical agricultural vehicles every year. That's a wonderful parade, but that's a one-time event and I think it's actually fine that there's an exception to that. Mr President, I am through the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u246	Thank you. There is another question from Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u247	I had asked a whole series of questions. Thank you for the comprehensive answer. I have one more question. We particularly stress the need to reduce costs. That apk check, how much is it gonna cost? I hadn't gotten an answer to that yet. What amounts are we talking about here? Maybe you should look that up, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u248	Can I come back to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u249	That's fine, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u250	That is not exactly what I have come across in this pile of papers, and I would like to inform you 100% correctly. So I'd like to come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u251	Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u252	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-8.u253	I'm suspending until 5:25. Then we have a VAO JHA Council. Apologies to the Minister and the spokesmen, but unfortunately that was no different to organise. Hopefully that won't take too long. We shall then vote on the motions that have been tabled and then proceed with the second term of this debate.
