ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u1	Then I give the floor to Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66 for his question on the British unrest in the Netherlands after the Brexit. The question is addressed to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome. I call Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good afternoon, Mr. Chairman. That's right, it's about the Brexit. It is about 11 p.m. last Friday evening when the United Kingdom left the European Union. Although everyone is now focusing their sights on the trade agreement to be concluded and Boris Johnson has fired the opening fire for it, Barnier replied to that and both parties have been in each other's hair, we must not forget that in the midst of this struggle there are 100,000 Dutch people in the United Kingdom and 45,000 British people here in the Netherlands who are very concerned. Big trouble. The Dutch in the United Kingdom, for example, because they do not receive a physical document that proves that they are allowed to live and work in the United Kingdom. Those who are concerned that their rights have been caught in secondary legislation. That means that the British Parliament has nothing to say about it and Boris Johnson can just change it like that. But also 45,000 Britons here, who are officially no longer European citizens from Friday, although of course they will retain their rights until the end of this year. Mr. Chairman. All these concerns, all these problems could have been avoided if this cabinet, if this government, if this Secretary of State had ensured that we had dual nationality. That's my first question to her, too. Why has that promise from the coalition agreement not been transposed into law yet? My second question is why the provision of information to the British does not sometimes seem to be entirely correct, for example the IND report that the British should be registered in a municipality before the Brexit. My third question concerns a motion tabled at the time of the debate on the Brexit Emergency Act in which the Chamber calls on the Secretary of State to speak with Britten here in the Netherlands. Is that what happened and what was the outcome? And can this Secretary of State, Madam President, guarantee that all the British in the Netherlands who are entitled to that residence permit by the end of 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u3	Thank you. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked by Mr Sjoerdsma. It is incredibly important to speak here first of all about all the British who live in the Netherlands and who are perhaps in uncertainty about their position now that the Brexit is indeed a fact and there is only one year, at least until 31 December 2020, to know what their status is after that. It has always been the cabinet's commitment to give all British people clarity about their situation. The British who stay in the Netherlands have all been notified in the past period, before the Brexit took place last Friday. Work has been done to get everyone involved in the registration of personal data, so that letters could be sent. Information campaigns were launched at various times, namely on 31 January last year, 31 October last year and 31 January last year. This means that some 45,000 British have now been spotted and all have received letters about it. The Brexit has indeed been a fact since last Friday 23.00 hours. The next question is: what is happening? All the British will receive a letter. Those letters were sent Friday night. In the course of this week, all those 45,000 British must receive a letter. In that letter they are invited to submit an application for a residence document. A separate telephone line is also set for that. Last Friday, a small 145 phone calls were registered. And there's a Brexit website from the IND. It's being renewed every time. It has been renewed on Monday. It's kept up-to-date. Last Friday the website was visited more than 10,000 times. Everyone will receive a letter with an invitation to submit an application for the residence document. That goes in batches, because you understand that the IND cannot process 45,000 requests in one day. This depends on the time someone is living in the Netherlands. So these are batches of people who live here the longest and then shorter and shorter and shorter. It is foreseen that everyone will be called up. In the meantime, anyone can submit and send the application digitally. Then an appointment is made whereby a photo is handed in and a fingerprint is given, and then the residence document is provided. For all the British in the Netherlands this is done in this way in the sense that all 45,000 who are now in the focus of the IND, have managed to achieve this before 31 December, unless of course someone requests it on 31 December, because then it is not immediately settled that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u5	It is a good thing that the Secretary of State is taking some time for the answer to take away that unrest, but I had asked a number of other questions which also deserve answers in order to help remove that unrest. But let me go back to the starting point: all this unrest, all these concerns would not have been necessary if part of the coalition agreement had already been implemented: extending the possibilities of multiple nationality for the first generation of immigrants and immigrants. Then all these people were sure of their stay, then all these people were sure of their work and then all these people were sure that they could travel across the European Union and reunite with their families. This Chamber has had to draft, adopt and deal with an emergency law in nine months. We succeeded and I am grateful to colleagues for that. But the cabinet has been looking at that part for two years and three months. I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State what's going on with that. When can we expect anything there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u6	I am aware that this has been agreed in the coalition agreement, but there is a complication, which makes it a bit difficult legally. Work is being done to find out this well. It is a law, a plan, with two things in one: making it possible to have a dual nationality, with the next generation having to turn in one nationality. The latter is legally quite complicated. There are ethical issues about this too. That's looked at and worked on, but that's not something you get in a curse and a sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u7	Maybe not in a curse and a sigh, but I had hoped in two years and three months. I understand that the Tjebbes case is also complicated, but I suspect that the nationality lawyers of the Ministry of State would like to put their teeth in it and would like to solve the problems. I do not see that solution coming, despite the uncertainty these people face; by the way, several Dutch people abroad. Anyway, I'm assuming we'll soon get an answer from this Secretary of State. Back to my other questions: has the Secretary of State been in conversation with the British representation here in the Netherlands? What has she done with their concerns, for example, about family reunification, about the presence here, in this country, about the opportunities for working across borders? Has it discussed these concerns with those who cause this unrest and who are then also expressed in the media?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u8	As I have just said, information has been provided at various times to the British who live in the Netherlands. Even now, the IND is running a targeted campaign for the British who are here in the Netherlands. All the British have now received an information letter; this week it is on everyone's bus. Last year, so before Friday's Brexit, everyone received an information letter. There's a phone line, and there's a website that's very clear and clearly shows what's going on. Next week, Foreign Affairs will be speaking with the British Embassy and the British Association of Interests in Europe to discuss concerns. Justice and Security officials are also present. So much has been done on the part of the Ministry, on the part of the IND, and much is still being done to inform the British sufficiently and comprehensively about all the possibilities, opportunities and problems that exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u9	Finally, Mr Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u10	That motion that was passed in the Chamber asked for such a call prior to the Brexit. That makes sense, too, because you want to take care of the Brexit. The fact that this meeting is about to take place is a good thing, and I hope that it will be able to take care of the concerns, but I would ask the Secretary of State to report to the Chamber to see if those concerns have actually been taken away. Because I would like the British to feel at home in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u11	As far as my information is concerned, and we have received a lot of information from the British in the Netherlands: they feel at home here, because we have really received a lot of positive reactions to the way in which the Dutch cabinet handles this. Whatever we're going to do is report every month what we've received from applications, what's decided on acceptances, how many acceptances there have been, how many rejections there have been, and so on. So in that respect, we're going to keep everyone well informed. I think that with the points of contact there, the website that has been expanded, the telephone line that is there, the special team that has been appointed in Almere to deal with this, the conversations that have taken place and the information meetings, the Netherlands has really done what can be expected from careful treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u12	And that report is to the Chamber, I take it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u13	The assessment report is made available through the website every month.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u14	Okay. The Chamber can therefore take note of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u15	That is a good question from you, Mr President. I would like the report that Mr Sjoerdsma rightly asks for to be sent to the Chamber. But we're talking about one group now. It is right that attention should be paid to this. Those are the British who are in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is doing its utmost to do this. But there is another group: the Dutch who are in Britain. That group, part of the 3million, 3 million EU citizens in the UK, is still struggling to get physical papers over settled status at the moment. The papers promised in the Netherlands are not given to the Dutch in Britain. All they get is a note in the system. Would you, or would your Foreign Minister, like to talk to the British here in the Netherlands very well that you do so, and also talk to the Dutch in the United Kingdom to solve these problems and reconnect them to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u16	My information from the English embassy in the Netherlands is that the settled status in England is now subject to flexible procedures. More than 2.5 million applications have now been processed. So of those 3 million foreigners in the United Kingdom who come from the European Union, half a million remain. We are confident that those half million will be dealt with in England in no time. But if Mr Omtzigt's question is whether the Netherlands can make another conversation through the embassy: I think that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u17	Then they'll take it too. I am going to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u18	Following on from Mr Omtzig's comment, I would like to say the following. 2.5 million have been taken into consideration. No decisions have been made on the 2.5 million. It's not handled, it's under treatment. Hardly anyone's gotten any definitive evidence yet. That means that through you, Madam President, I really want to call on the Secretary of State not to be fooled by the British Cabinet. The point is that people do not have a document and have only received a message that it is being processed. They don't know whether or not to stay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u19	The British in the Netherlands still do not have a document. Those 45,000 have received letters. They are invited to fill out the form and are then invited to submit an application for a residence document using the form. The IND has arranged it so that at the end of this year it goes with batches, as I have just told you, because it can't all be arranged in one day, so before 1 January 2021, everyone has a residence document. But at the moment no Brit has a residence document as the IND is going to organize it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you. Unfortunately, Mr. Ommzigt and Mr. Van Otterloo. I think... Wait a minute... The CDA? Yes, Mr Van Helvert has been here before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u21	I understand, but I have a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u22	Me? You can always do that. But I know you: through me, you're going to ask the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u23	You understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u24	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u25	But I understand we're getting another letter. There seems to be a misunderstanding here. In the Netherlands there is no problem, because as Brit you have a passport and you can do anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u26	No, no, Mr. Ommzigt. You said you'd ask me something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u27	The Dutch in Britain can't do that. We would like clarification on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u28	And that question is addressed to me, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u29	Whether we can get a letter from the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-04-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. The Secretary of State has been listening. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
