ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the budget for Infrastructure and Water State, Section 35570-XII. I would like to welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State and, of course, the spokesmen. I'm really glad you guys are so happy. Then we'll get started right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Graus, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u3	Good morning, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u4	Good morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u5	You're getting such a dry mouth from those mouth caps. You breathe in your own exhaust gases all the time. I don't think that's gonna promote health. I will speak on behalf of my party colleague and friend Roy van Aalst today, so I need to read a little more. Of course, I haven't been able to follow everything. I used to be a spokesperson for traffic and water, infrastructure and the environment. That's what it was called back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think you're doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u7	Oh, yeah. You're lucky, I'll tell the Secretary of State and the Minister that I'm standing here and not Roy, because I can assure you Roy would have gone into it a little harder. I'm always a little more merciful. I'm more of a labrador, and Roy's more of a pit bull.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u8	Okay. I hope he's listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u9	The disadvantage of a pit bull is: if you bite, you get a muzzle first and then you get a shot. A labrador gives a lick and then gets a piece of sausage or a cookie. That's how it works. But you must have something of both. Anyway, be happy. I'll keep it a little more friendly. Roy is of course in our hearts and minds, but he's in another room. The chairman and the MPs are aware of that, so I have to apologize to him. This will then be the last budget discussion of this cabinet after four years. During this period it turned out that the former car party... they never say "car," but "oto," which is very strange, because it is "car." Good people always say that all wrong. Of course you can say "oto," but I always think: why don't you just say "car"? At least that car party didn't turn out to be a car party at all. She dropped her mask. But fortunately the PVV came up in 2006 as the car party. I'm an old-IVA boy myself, by the way. I've really been at the Institute of Automobile Commerce, as it used to be, so I'm really a guy from the automotive industry, which I'm very proud of. The VVD has individually reduced the maximum speed from 130 km/h to 100 km/h. I can see the consequences of that myself. I have to drive a long way to Limburg, and I see how much it saves. That's ridiculous, because time is money. It really takes me 15 minutes to 20 minutes longer if I have to keep to the speed. That's just ridiculous. How did that happen? What has the Minister and the VVD brought to this end? What happened? Do you want to talk about it? Throw it out! But please, let us undo this measure. I really cannot understand the environmental tax argument either. And it hasn't really gotten any safer either. The funny thing is, there's been a strike once in the police department. At that time I had myself asked whether there were more accidents on that day, because of course everyone went faster because no checks had been announced. But there were no more accidents that day. I also notice it in myself: the faster I drive, the more alert I am. 'Cause I'm really going to sleep at 100 km/h. I hate it. I speak on behalf of many others. But since I am not always allowed to speak on behalf of others, I am speaking on my own behalf and on behalf of our group. A little bit of nitrogen space didn't even make it. That little bit of nitrogen space isn't even enough to pull off the big MIRT projects. It is not just a bad measure, it is also a totally unnecessary measure, which has been pushed down everyone's throats. Are you taking a picture of me right now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u10	Yes, the Secretary of State really took a picture of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u11	Joop van Tellingen used to say, chin up. So if you'd like to take the picture again, I'm a little better on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u12	This does not go away from your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you. Otherwise, it's gonna look so weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u14	And don't make any weird movies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u15	You'll keep it secretly as a reminder of me, too. I'm sure of it. It's okay to say that. I'm sure your husband would appreciate that. It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u16	Proceed, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u17	Mr. Chairman. I have all mentioned factual observations. This is also evident from the way in which the VVD has put the knife into the affordable driving. The VVD and this VVD minister have embraced the bill riding and they can't wait to make the drivers bleed even harder for every kilometer they drive. It doesn't seem to matter to the VVD that this is already happening, because half of the fuel price already consists of excise duties and taxes. That's really horrible. I would also like to talk about the major road leaks in the border area. For example, where I live, in Limburg with the largest number of kilometres border, the people in Germany and Belgium are going to fill up. But they also get their potatoes, their crate of beer and everything. The road leak effects are incalculable. As an SME party, this should appeal to the VVD and also to this minister. So go do something about it! We have sometimes asked for excise duties to be brought just 0.1% below those of Belgium and Germany. Just go ahead and do that, because we'll help our entrepreneurs. But they seem to have declared the sustainability noise sacred. I can't understand that. I would have liked to have responded to that. They also think that the whole of the Netherlands will be driving electric. But that's almost priceless. Who can afford an electric car? That might be possible if you get a lease car from the store, but a regular guy can't afford an electric car at all. We do not yet know at all what the impact of these electric cars will be on the environment if they are to be recycled immediately. And then there's safety. I hear firefighters talk about that differently. I'm telling you honestly, I wouldn't want to drive between those batteries. I really wouldn't want that. Not because of security, let alone the range. I couldn't even drive up and down to my house. That's really crazy. I would have liked to have responded to that. The logistics entrepreneurs are also screwed. I call the truck tax. We want it to get out of the way right away, because that is just a vulgar new tax that takes away the small profits that entrepreneurs are still able to make, especially at the time of this crisis, without mercy. It will then be put into a sustainability fund that every environmental activist can access with his grabby hands. That is not possible, it belongs to the entrepreneurs. Don't take that away and help the entrepreneurs. They now need every euro to keep their business above water and provide their families with primary necessities. Electricity, gas, water and light will not be payable. What the hell are we doing? We're not gonna kill our own people and our own country, are we? So we are very clear about this: put a line under that truck tax. I'd like a response. A motion may not even be necessary. The traffic pressure appears to have increased every year. That started with Camiel, who also came from the south. There is even a song about that made by some Limburg band: Camiel, ich staon wir in de fiel. Every year, traffic jams increase. Of course, we saw them dwindle for a while with the corona crisis, but that had to do with the emergency measures and not with the handling of traffic jams. I'd like a reaction to that, too. As far as environmental zones are concerned, I would like to draw particular attention to the carnival and circus entrepreneurs. Those people would almost have to buy new trucks, otherwise they wouldn't get into certain cities, while they'd only enter a city into a field, often on the outskirts of town, set up a circus or carnival there, and then they'd leave again. They all ride very quietly. So please help those people. The number of used cars sold exploded in the past period. Those cars, of course, all go on the road. People choose their health. There is not always room in public transport, especially now, at the time of the crisis. It is therefore the only logical means of transport, but it is also the most safe choice. I even think the car is the safest way to move around today, with all those freaks on the street. I wish they'd invested in asphalt all these years. But no, mostly the baking bikes, as we call them and of which they are also very proud, were followed. We cannot understand that. Even carrying out my colleague Van Aalst's motion calling for the seven MIRT projects to be carried out quickly seemed to be too clever. The Minister chose to delay, delay and delay. Why? The mad nitrogen and pfas policies of this cabinet lock everything down. There can be no more kick-starts because a permit for each nitrogen has to be applied for. That is simply not feasible, affordable and workable. It just can't be. There is also an approved motion from the PVV on the mbk-key. It also concerns construction companies and road construction companies, because everything has to be tested for importability, applicability, workability and affordability. Well, believe me, that's not the case. Important bottlenecks such as the N35 in Overijssel, the A76 to my own Limburg or the A12 here in the Randstad are simply not addressed. If the PVV then comes up with a plan that allows us to invest EUR 1 billion per year in asphalt, the Minister does not give at home. Why not? I would have liked to have a reaction to that, because where there is a will, there is a way. Why did this minister lack both choices? There was no will and no way, literally no way. Mr. Chairman. Then there is something very important: road safety in the Netherlands. It is the heart of every party and every Member of Parliament. Each time, the Minister called for her ambition to bring the number of road deaths to zero. But when the PVV asked to tackle unsafe roads in the Netherlands, she did not give home. Thus, the N36, the road of death of Overijssel, still does not receive a middle-conductor and the Minister is still waiting for years for an evaluation, while the accidents pile up. The minister also almost personally turned off the lighting, which meant that people in the pitch dark had to get on the road. It is only now, after a great deal of pressure from the PVV, that she will come back to that. That also has to do with wild-goose chases. If the roads are illuminated, you already see an animal crossing the road and you can intervene earlier and prevent a collision. That's unrelated to the fact that the PVV has asked for those grids. On the Veluwe this has led to very large effects, because there have been virtually no collisions on the roads where fences have been made. Why doesn't that happen in the rest of the Netherlands where there are a lot of wild change? We can wait, but the accidents are piling up. You can't do that. So I'd like action and response to that. Then I'd like to go to the Stint. It will now be renamed the bso-bus. Just the name, you'd say. It goes on the road again, while there is still a whole list of risks open. This minister seems to be as concerned with road safety as an alcoholic with a glass of water, I would almost say. What about the boarding under the guardrail for motorcyclists? Motorcyclists may lose limbs if they slide under a guardrail and an arm or leg sticks behind a pin. So I'd like that boarding. It has already been made on certain winding exits, but why not in several places where motorcyclists can go under because of smoothness or through leaves and so on? It's all possible. So I would also like to have a reaction to that. There's hardly any investment in maintenance. It is not for nothing that Building Netherlands talks about a "ticking time bomb." It is only a matter of time before Italian situations take place here. I would also like to respond to that, because the infrastructure is literally collapsing in some places. The Minister is well aware of this, but refuses to tackle the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u18	Before I give you the floor, Mrs Postma, I should like to say that I forgot at the beginning to mention that I allow three interruptions in two or six questions in the first term from the side of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u19	I think that this time we started the debate with a very different tone. It is actually refreshing to see a labrador here and also someone who is very busy with road safety, so I hear in the input. The CDA notes that a lot of accidents are caused by tapping or checking social media on your phone in the car. Now I was wondering if the PVV would agree with us that it is incredibly good that enforcement is increasing in the field of non-use of your phone, so banning the tapping, but that there is something crazy in the law, namely that it is allowed if you have your phone in a holder, which is as dangerous as having your phone in your hand. That's proven in research. Does the PVV agree with the CDA that we should also look at this and ask the Minister to include a ban on it in the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u20	Or that's incorporated into the law... I just want to say that it's hard to be a substitute spokesperson, because then you go to the cardiologist with toothache. I have other specializations here. But the question of whether this should be included in the law is also something I would like to discuss with the spokesperson. But I suppose Roy, as I know him, always, and also as a father of a young family...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u21	And Roy is Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u22	Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, Mr Van Aalst, I know he's always trying to keep himself safe in traffic. But whether that should be done in legislation, you will really have to ask him with a stuffed cake, because I am replacing him here, but I am not going to go into other things too deeply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u23	Proceed, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u24	I would like the Minister to get in touch with the skippers, especially the inland waterway vessels, because they are hard hit by the regulations imposed. The priceless sustainability measures are being pushed down their throats. They're also losing more and more confidence. If they criticize, they'll get caught again for that. So talk to the inland waterway vessels, I'd like to ask you a separate question. Madam President. I want another reaction to the useless transformation from ProRail to Zbo. The Secretary of State, we have now arrived at the Secretary of State, and we know what the PVV is like. We're very much in favour of the NS. What have the benefits of that Zbo been? We do not see them, so we would have liked to have had a reaction. For years we heard nothing but the term "modal shift" when it comes to our logistics sector. Instead of by road, more freight should go on water and rail, but like inland waterway transport, the rail freight sector is also being hit hard. During this period, the Secretary of State would work on facilitating longer trains, but none of that has happened either. Moreover, entrepreneurs on the track have huge losses because ProRail did not have his business in order and made a mess of it. These entrepreneurs were also faced with huge user fees and parking charges. Give this sector some air as Secretary of State who wanted and wants the modal shift so badly. Madam President. Its environmental policy also leads to unprecedented job losses. The pfas crisis, apart from the corona crisis, and all additional redundancies are partly due to it. I'd like a response to that. She also hits Dutch entrepreneurs hard with the import tax on waste. I would have liked to have had a reaction to that too. Why was that policy pursued? Diftar leads to heaps of garbage in the streets of the Netherlands. Plastic must and will be reused. But what happens with that? Nothing at all. The Netherlands can help to recycle plastic abroad, but it is almost impossible to do so. The common man can immediately pay deposit on a bottle of water that costs only a few cents and that he often has to drink. The tap water doesn't always taste good either, with all that chlorine and that shit in it. Let's not make that impossible. Water is a primary need for life. Put that crazy sustainability policy in the garbage instead of the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u25	Are you thinking about your speaking time? Otherwise, you'll have a fight with Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u26	Yeah, sure. I got to my last page.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u27	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u28	One more very important point: I will do the rest by means of interruptions. What I really want to make a point of is safety in public transport. People who work hard every day for an accessible Netherlands are plagued by aggression and intimidation. I think I can say that on behalf of all Members of Parliament. That's really bad. We have always asked for the railway police to return. A motion by Mr Van Aalst has even been adopted on a general travel ban for aircraft. What are we going to do to protect not only carriers and conductors, but also boas themselves? Because those people are often not resistant to that either. The bus drivers are also crying out for an effective measure. Fortunately, that is my last sentence, my colleagues Helder and Van Aalst submitted an initiative paper last week to put an end to the weak performance and to show them who is in charge in the Netherlands. That is what we are, preferably in cooperation with the railway police. I would like to leave it at that in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you for letting me replace my colleague, for giving her permission and for not making it difficult. Thanks for the collegiality. Possibly until the second term; I don't know yet, because maybe Mr. Van Aalst will come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u31	We're gonna see. Thank you, Mr. Graus. You'll stick with it, won't you? That's nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u32	I don't know if it's gonna be fun, but at least I'll stay until Mr. Van Aalst gets back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u33	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mr Remco Dijkstra on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The VVD is... Mr. Graus, are you listening? Thank you for your lovely story just now. The VVD is still the car party and also the mobility party. We focus on affordability and freedom of choice. These are important liberal motives in our policy. I must tell you that there is still a great deal to be done to make this better. I am talking today about the spatial design of our country, mobility in corona time and the consequences for the ordinary Dutchman. Mr Ziengs will take it up in this way and will talk about the environment, environmental issues and, for example, rail freight transport. My introduction. People like to be mobile. That's fine. We shouldn't slow that down, we should support it. People go to places and meet. That's an important part of our lives, even in corona time, but certainly after that. We are almost daily on the road: to work, to sports clubs, to family, to shops or something else. You want to do that travel comfortably, safe, affordable, fast and a bit easy. Let me first mention some facts. The average Dutchman travels about 10,000 kilometers per year. There are people who do four or six times as much and others a lot less, but on average it is 10,000 kilometers per year. An hour a day they're on their way on average. 40% of all these kilometres are work or education related. Most miles, 72%, are driven by car. The bike is popular at a short distance and is used nine times more often than the ov. A total of 6% of movements are made in the Netherlands. 6% of the journeys; let that affect you for a moment. We are now talking about the budget of Infrastructure and Water State. In total it is now 16.5 billion, but that is a distorted picture, because there is already over 7 billion in it for the transformation of ProRail. When I look more specifically, I see 2.8 billion a year going to roads, 2 billion to railways and 1.3 billion to waterways. We have also recently seen a shortage of road management and maintenance from 1 to 1.4 billion a year. So the danger is that management and maintenance will swallow everything in a moment and we won't be able to do any new things. I come to speak separately about freight transport by ship, inland waterway and aviation in separate AOs. If there's any questions about that, I'll just park it. I can give you a generic answer, but I'm not talking about it myself. Then the situation for corona. What was going on then? Well, the traffic jams were growing tremendously, plus This is mainly due to an increase in the population, which is growing sharply until 2030, and an increase in the economy, which hopefully we will get back to work as soon as possible. The annual damage caused by traffic jams and then I stop with the numbers "T" was 3.7 billion. In corona time we saw that there was a huge, severe relapse in the use of the Ov. But road traffic also fell sharply. The files were fixed. Moreover, it is expected that it will not be up to level again until 2025. Finally, the last figure: 21 billion a year in car-related taxes. No one dares ask a question to someone who might mention so many numbers, but I see someone appear. Oh, thank God!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u35	I love numbers! 72% by car, 3.7 billion damage due to traffic jams; then it must hurt the VVD if we read in De Telegraaf that this cabinet has built the least asphalt compared to all the cabinets before? Only 207 kilometers. How does the VVD explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u36	Well, that's very simple: it's a money issue. That's one. Two. In the case of infrastructure, it will take you to know that you will also need to know that on average for seven years, and often longer, before you have realized a project. Take the A27 thing, a project that some parties don't want. How long has this project been going on? From 2010 or something. I remember that in 2012 we had to negotiate hard with the Labour Party to get it in, but unfortunately we had to renegotiate the elections with all the other parties to do it again. And in a moment, maybe we should do it again. That's not what I'm going to do. It is important that we tackle this type of project at full speed, but it just takes a terrible long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u37	Does this mean it's Schultz's fault? Because she was the minister's predecessor. She's been a VVD guy, too. For years, over a decade, you have had a Minister of IenW and have been responsible for building roads. It must hurt that it's only 207 kilometers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u38	The periods before that were about 700 kilometers and another 700 kilometers. I told you, what you're sowing now, you're not gonna harvest for a few years. This cabinet, which you are also part of, has added 3.2 billion to the infrastructure budget, another 100 million for the bike, 2 billion was occasional and within that 3.2 billion it was 100 million times twelve years. Those are huge amounts of money. In a while, we're gonna see the results of that. We can also see that asphalt works in this respect, because it reduces congestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u40	We should really be proud of the spatial planning of the Netherlands. We are densely populated, with a lot of people in a small area. In this scarcity, we also make choices. And we have a lot. If you were to hang over the Netherlands with a kind of drone, you'd see all the villages, cities, roads, industrial areas and agriculture. We even have a few airports and lots of nature reserves. And all of that in a water-rich delta, where also what is it? Two-thirds or half below sea level. That's what we've done with each other. We must nurture that. The rest of the world is coming to see how we did it here. At the point of mobility in corona time you see a number of trends. I'll name four. The first is that international business-to-business may decrease. The second is that your homework really gets in the way and more people are gonna do it. That has a number of advantages. The third is that there is an increased willingness to adapt opening hours, particularly in education but also in business. The fourth is that the willingness to use collective transport within the D is becoming less because of corona and the fact that you are of course close to each other there. This willingness may also remain less structuralally strong. The corona crisis is therefore topical and has consequences for our traffic and transport, both in the short term and perhaps in the longer term. This crisis is actually the biggest traffic experiment ever. The traffic jams have disappeared, travelling with the O.V. is actually discouraged and the need for individual transport increases. The VVD wants to respond to that. This is also part of modern mobility. Then you have to think automatically about the solutions we have to offer. Instead of naming road, water and rail or rail separately, I try to integrate them more into this treatment, because mobility and accessibility are becoming much more central. I also refer to the discussions we had on the Mobility Fund. Traffic and transport are mainly about providing the government with a good network of reliable connections that you can safely and afford to use. If I may dream a little, I see in the future that the whole of the Netherlands, which is actually a small area, so every corner of our country, should be reachable within two hours. We're working on that. It will take years to recover from the effects of corona. It's said, maybe 2025. There are already lessons to be learned from this. The availability fee for the DV was set up quickly, which is good, but cannot of course last indefinitely. Because empty trains and buses full of hot air have nothing to do with us. We do have something about adapted school hours and working hours. Then the pressure goes away, too. As a result, there were fewer traffic jams. What can the Secretary of State say about this availability fee and its future? What can the Minister say about the fact that we actually solved the file sample by a virus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u41	I actually hear a plea from Mr Dijkstra that I can follow for a very large part: more work at home and other opening hours simply mean less rush traffic and less traffic jams. He is actually asking for a robust, forward-looking mobility policy. That is very interesting and I fully agree with that. But how does he explain that yesterday the Minister signed 1.2 billion in a really useless asphalt project? Isn't that completely contrary to each other? Is the only explanation for that what Mr Dijkstra just said in a minor way, namely that the VVD does not want to have it again on the negotiating table with a new cabinet formation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u42	That project is certainly not useless. The A27/A12, the Ring Utrecht, is part of a much wider package to improve the accessibility of the Netherlands, not only of Utrecht itself. That includes housing, but also all people who are going through. A third is definitely going through: from Amersfoort to Breda or from another place to Hilversum. Those people pass Utrecht. The project is certainly not useless. It has been debated and debated for a very long time. You'll see that the economy is about to reappear, hopefully. You can see that population growth is increasing. That simply requires investment in asphalt. Because it takes so long in this case, in seven years or much longer, it is simply necessary and you should definitely continue to invest in the heart of the Netherlands, in the turntable of the Netherlands. You can do that just now because it is perhaps a bit quieter on the road; Mr Stoffer said that this morning in a newspaper. Then you can start. Let's do that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u43	Still, there's just a lot of tension here. On the one hand, we recognise with each other that we can fight traffic jams with more homework, other opening hours and traffic distribution and that this undermines the usefulness and necessity of the A27 project. That is also what several traffic experts say, and that is also what the Commission is saying for the m.e.r. He also asks: what are the usefulness and necessity of the project? Actually, just have to get that signature underneath, because otherwise this VVD minister hasn't achieved anything on asphalt. That is an honest answer, but I would very much like Mr Dijkstra to just admit that the VVD doesn't want to have it on the formation table again and that this VVD Minister simply wants an asphalt project rushed through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u44	Those are your words. It's en-and. You need to invest now that it's quieter. If it's quieter, you have less nuisance, but it just remains necessary to invest in infra, purely and simply because the population is growing enormously and so is the economy. It is precisely this type of project that we are lagging behind in a number of projects that we must allow to go ahead. So I'm really glad we realized last year that seven of those big, major MIRT projects can go on. This is the first one the Minister has actually signed, because it has been substantiated. You can find a lot of that, but I think it is important for the Netherlands, for the accessibility in the Netherlands and for the drivers of the Netherlands that we can certainly drive a bit in the future at Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u45	This is also a bit of a time to pick out the election programs and then you're going to read things. I just heard Mr Dijkstra say: we are also going to look at the affordability of our mobility system. I am delighted to see that the draft election programme of the VVD contains: we are going to introduce road pricing. When I opened the newspaper this morning and read Mr Dijkstra's quote, I thought it was a bit typical. You see, he says, "Put that investigation into charging in the drawer." How do you rhyme with that? You say that you would like an affordable system and the draft election programme states that you want to enter the bill driving. This morning you say yes, but we are not going to begin these investigations. I think that's a bit of an eye-catching move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u46	I'll try to explain that to you, Mr. Schonis. Driving in the Netherlands is quite expensive. We are the second most expensive country in Europe in terms of driving. I think we share the view that at least it should not be more expensive. You can see that there are more electric cars coming and they do not contribute to the excise duty; they do not contribute to the bpm. They have all kinds of exemptions, all kinds of advantages. That's good at the beginning, but that group of electric drivers is getting bigger and more and more using the road. Wouldn't it be fairer and fairer if those electric drivers were to pay for our infrastructure? So we want to leave the system intact as it is now, but if we see that group of electric drivers is going to be very large, then it can't be that the old-fashioned petrol and diesel drivers are going to pay for those 20 billion. Then it's a fair share for electric drivers who'll pay for it. In the distant future, in 2030 or something like this, if that turning point is actually there, it is also logical to reduce the burden on traditional motorists, motor vehicles and similar vehicles at some point. But your plan actually only leads to an increase in costs; our plan leads to honesty, because the electric driver is going to pay for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u47	That is not quite an answer to my question. I asked: why did you respond with 'put all the investigations in the drawer', while your own election program, as you just explained, says that the electric driver has to pay for it, because it doesn't now? I can't rhyme with that. A second point is that I think it is a very strange move that you want to burden the sustainable choice. That's the choice you want people to make, and that's why we have all these incentives for electric driving now. You will say: we are going to tax you for that and drive the fossil, the old model, the old fossil economy, pays for it, but we are not going to do anything about it for the rest. It doesn't help with traffic jams, it's not fairer and it certainly isn't more sustainable. How's the VVD looking at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u48	The corona crisis has shown us that we don't need charging to solve the traffic. That's right. A better distribution has led to the same result. Secondly, it is a draft electoral programme. This will start in March and it will play a role in the campaign. In addition, we have agreed in this coalition agreement on how far we go, namely with pilots to pay for use and the like. So let's look at that, but don't go any further than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u49	Mr Schonis, your third question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u50	I'll leave it at that. Look, the pilots Mr Dijkstra is referring to have hardly been there. There are a number of things that this minister has unfortunately not yet succeeded. We'll talk about that later, I think. I find it striking that Mr Dijkstra is now referring to the point that Corona has left us out of traffic jams. I suppose I could put that argument back to you, too, wouldn't I? Then we no longer need these asphalt projects of yours; there are no more traffic jams. So what's the VVD like in there? Can we stop doing that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u51	Those files will of course come back when Corona is over. That's why you need to keep investing in asphalt. What we don't want is that we leave people with a normal petrol car in traffic paid for by your variant of billing. That's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u52	It is an interesting proposal from the VVD to stop the pandemic, because then the traffic jams have been solved. We're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u53	No, of course not! I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u54	I can give that to Mr Dijkstra. We're not gonna do that. I want to go back to the A27/A12 at Amelisweerd. We are politically opposed to this. It's okay. In the summer we have seen reports that the calculation of nitrogen emissions from road traffic is actually just a calculation trick, a trick. The reduction to 100 km/h is very large, but nitrogen emissions from road construction and emissions from road transport are only partly taken into account. Does the VVD agree with the SP that nitrogen emissions from road construction and transport emissions should be taken into account fairly and in full, whatever you think politically?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u55	The cabinet responded to the story of the Hordijk Committee. I think that will be dealt with in December if the nitrogen law is in place. What I want to give you is that I don't want to completely park it.Of course, we shouldn't lock the Netherlands. Last year we took a number of measures, including the painful reduction in speed, the aim of which was to help start the annual production of construction. I also mention the seven MIRT projects. There was also enough room for skimming for nature, 30%. I think it is important that we keep the Netherlands moving. The rest comes back to the nitrogen bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u56	Of course, everyone in this Chamber wants to keep the Netherlands moving. Only, the VVD chooses a different way than certain other parties. It's possible. I don't hear an answer to the question. Of course, there has been some reaction to the Hordijk Committee. We're gonna talk about that. The nitrogen bill comes in December, but not necessarily in this committee. The question to the VVD remains whether the VVD believes that nitrogen emissions should also be taken into account in the seven MIRT projects that this minister and the VVD want to pass through. That's the question to the VVD. And if so, does it think that we cannot now accept the widening of the A27 with an incomplete picture? Does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u57	I find the word "through coats" so strange. One party says the minister can't get anything done. The other party says she'll sign it soon, because she doesn't want to renegotiate it. You say it's through jackets. That is not the case. It has to be careful. That's what time has been taken. On the joyous news we received yesterday, we have had to wait years. I hope there will be six other projects and much more from the MIRT. I think that's what we should want with each other. But that must be done in a careful way, and that must ultimately be maintained in the courts. Yesterday, at the procedural meeting, we asked each other to put the calculations on the table so that we could discuss them further with the MIRT. So that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u58	I would simply like to point out that Mr Dijkstra has no answer to the question of whether it should be fair and complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u59	Yeah, but what's meant by that is a second. Of course, there has to be transparency and this is immediately being reviewed by a judge or whatever. But the most important thing I think is that the decision should stand. The fact that it is now taken is a very happy fact, because then we can continue with this kind of major projects. What doesn't help us is we're stuck in traffic. The Remkes Committee has shown what that means for nitrogen emissions. Well, then you'll be home in time and then the emissions will increase explosively. We shouldn't want that. Driving on is the best cure, also for nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u61	Mr. Chairman. There is also no reason to make mobility more expensive when traffic jams are solved by spreading working hours and working at home. Otherwise we will have to think about how we will pay the bill in the future, as I say to Mr Schonis, of course we can. The absolute condition then is that the burden on the driver does not increase. So hence our variant, which leads to a load relief of 700 million to 1 billion. And no matter where you live, and certainly not in rush hour through a separate charge, because you often have no choice. And, of course, the tax system must also be kept fair. It is therefore inevitable that emissions-free cars will also contribute to the maintenance and management of our roads. After all, they also use it. And it can't be that people in an old car only pay the bill. Then how are you gonna pay for it? I think that's very simple: through an annual report using your tax form. They can't make it any easier. However, I do have a number of questions for the directors about the future. How does the need for individual means of transport shift? And at the same time how will regional transport and supply remain in place in the future? I ask both the Minister and the Secretary of State. Should we continue to invest in the plans that are in place, or are there any plans to reconsider, given the consequences of corona? That question is also for both directors. Are the bottlenecks from then still the same, and can it be smarter? I'll give you an example. Road transport is getting cleaner, we see, but parcel services deliver 1.5 million packets every day that are ordered over the internet; 1.5 million packets, I read somewhere, and they come home to the consumer. I see about six vans an hour at the end of the day driving down my street. Can't that be a little smarter? And what does this mean for the common Dutchman? Who are we doing this for anyway? For all those normal people, who make a daily trip, in all the ways they want, which they can also decide for themselves: on the bike, in the car or with the O.V. And people want safe bike paths and no traffic jams. They want to continue driving, they do not want an overcrowded train with delay, but a public transport with which they can get home on time and especially safe, because after nine o'clock in the evening some simply don't dare to get on the train anymore. The VVD wants to tackle the main challenges. The use of data and innovation can help. The car and the bike remain popular.I just mentioned the facts as well and will remain so for a long time, and there's nothing wrong with that either. The affordability of the car is under pressure. The car's even in the goddamn corner with some parties, and that's not good, he's gotta get out of there. We need to keep the car accessible to the middle class. Because the VVD stands for affordability, for the wallet of the people and freedom of choice, including offering alternatives for all people. But mobility is a freedom. Mobility brings us a lot, so it's not bad. It enriches the social networks, offers opportunities, development and prosperity. So there's no point in slowing down or making more expensive. It would also be wise to take a kind of test on the policy, and that is often fiscal policy, for what it means to the ordinary Dutchman. Recently, yesterday, a motion was passed by a number of colleagues. What I would also like is for the Minister to respond to her role in the impact of policies, especially fiscal policies, on motorists. What role does she have there? Does she have a role at all, and how can she take part in keeping an eye on the interests of the motorist? Because at the moment, the Ministry is facilitating, for example through road projects and rail projects, but the Cabinet does, of course, make decisions that affect everyone. And I've said enough about the car tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u62	I know Mr Dijkstra as a quick boy, not only within the Aviation Committee we are in together and in which we work together a lot, but also in private. He drives a Porsche; those are the real car lovers. Oh, does he have a scooter? I hear behind me from Mr Amhaouch that he also has a scooter. He never told me that, Mr. Dijkstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u63	Yeah, two of them. I'll send you the photos in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u64	And electric, or...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u65	No, Vespas. One is a two-stroke; it is beautiful, it flutters beautifully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u66	Thank you for sharing this information with us, but now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u67	Madam President, the question. I was talking about the VVD not being the car party they used to be and wanted to be. But if you look at the tax addition, but also at "Luxussteuer" as the Germans call it, outside of VAT, an extremely high VAT, and also the bpm, the Luxussteuer, the excise duties, the road tax... The driving is so expensive. I drove through Luxembourg once the other day. There I could gas diesel for 90 or 92 cents. And then you come here with us, and you'll be back at €1,24 or €1,28 if you're lucky. It's just ridiculous. There are so extreme differences... So what does the VVD intend to do about it? I would also like to ask the VVD for a new zero, as with the administrative burden relief, which you are also in favour of. We need a new zero. But that must be in the past, not in the present, because Mr Dijkstra wants that zero... He says it shouldn't be more expensive from now on, but we're already way too expensive, so we have to go back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u68	To a large extent, I'm going along with this. I mentioned the 21 billion a year that motorists pay, and the 2.8 billion they actually get back in the form of roads and the 2 billion in the form of O.V. So that car also contributes to a lot of our prosperity, and a lot of other things are spent on it. And I agree with you that motorists pay a lot. We're the second most expensive country in Europe, so it's expensive. And what we have to strive for is that car mobility, even mobility, remains accessible and affordable for everyone, because it brings so many good things that I have just named. So just increase the charges, that that bpm is increased, and the moment of VAT over the bpm... That's what we had a discussion about in the Tax Plan, all technical matters. You can see that it's getting more and more expensive and more complicated for people to buy a new car. The fleet is on average almost eleven years old in the Netherlands. That's absurd. That is a pity, because it is not safer, it is not cleaner and it is not more economical. And so what I am asking this Minister, because she is looking at this from IenW and a lot of these things are actually just tax-related, is: look with those Finance colleagues, to make sure that that driver is at least not going to pay anymore, and that we are also going to distribute it more fairly, and that he is also getting back what he is actually paying for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u69	The interruptions must be short, but so must the answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u70	But couldn't the VVD support that we're going to do a project once, even if it's for one or two years? Then we can just go check that out. If you lower the burden, it will ultimately bring more, for the entrepreneurs but also for the government. I am convinced of that, because I see in my city and the cities and the villages around it that people go to Belgium and Germany to buy, but also to refuel. They're just doing it, really. As a result, not only the pump holders in these border areas go to the buds, but shopkeepers also suffer from road leaks. Couldn't we just do a test one time? Then we'll take a new zero. Then we just say: we're all going to lower the burden. Then you'll see that people also... It will appeal to the Secretary of State as well. It prefers modern cars and less polluting cars, but then perhaps people can start buying a new car sooner. Shopkeepers and pump holders may also be able to buy a new car sooner, if they are better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u71	That's a good point. It is true that excise duty does not allow you to go too far with neighbouring countries, otherwise you will indeed have those border effects right away. So you can't say: I'm halving the excise duty or something like that. That is a debate which, of course, also belongs to finance, including in terms of bpm and excise duties, which is a major contribution of the motorist to our budget. At the same time, you can see that this budget is also under pressure, even in the future. We spend a lot of money as a government. My plea is: at least let's not make it more expensive. And if you do a transition to electric driving, do so carefully and calmly. Let those electric drivers pay first. Don't bully people out of their cars. Don't make it unreachable. 'Cause that's what's about to happen. We have to fix that every time, over and over again. Also look at general as some sort of minister of IenW who hangs up there what that means to the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u73	I'm very convenient with my time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u74	Oh, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u75	Sure. I would therefore like to call for justice, including in the distribution of funds. There are certainly missed opportunities, I say to Mr Graus, to rejuvenate the current fleet. Not everyone can afford an electric car, but if you trade in an old car of an average 11 years old now for one of eight or five years old that can still fit your wallet and is a bit more secure, then that also makes a profit. We shouldn't leave it there. For example, a younger fleet can contribute to road safety. Does the Minister share that? Due to the corona era, the approach to traffic jams has also come into a different light, but they will inevitably come back again. Let us take advantage of the positive lessons from the corona era, for example in terms of homework and distribution. It is therefore also useful to invest and, where possible, to carry out projects earlier. We thus contribute to greater freedom and work during the crisis. However, we see that management and maintenance suffers from shortages, up to 1.4 billion a year. Where does that come from, I ask the Minister, especially in terms of coverage. This is gonna have to come from somewhere, right? It can't be that management and maintenance will swallow everything in a moment and we won't be able to do any new things. So we want to ensure that it is at the expense of new construction projects. In addition, the new investments and existing MIRT projects are delayed, for example because of nitrogen. We shall also discuss this in another consultation, but our starting point is that it must be fair for those who pay................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then about the Growth Fund, after which I come to a conclusion. I would like to stress that infrastructure has been explicitly appointed by the cabinet as something that can strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands in the future. That's really something we should embrace as committee members, I think. However, the review of the eligible projects is not carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State itself, but by a separate committee. I don't think there's any traffic experts in that. The question is, do you want them in? This also depends on who you invite, but it would be useful if certain expertise from the Ministry could be used when it comes to national market and capacity analyses and social cost-benefit analyses, so that they remain the starting point for projects. I would also like to make sure that we as VVD call ourselves projects. We do have an idea which projects that have been submitted could be eligible, but we do see the government agreement and matters outside which cannot now be because of a lack of money, which are urgent and desirable. How do we ensure that the Growth Fund spreads across the different modes, such as road and water, and that it is not just rail projects that will be eligible in the near future? So that is a question I have for the Minister on the Growth Fund. Finally, I have three other questions for the Minister, but first...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u76	However, on this point. Mr Dijkstra indicated that he would like to appoint a number of projects to be included in the Growth Fund. It's really about where the financial pool is going to be. If you give that hands and feet, you run the risk of becoming something that you think is necessary. When I hear it like that, it's about traditional infrastructure, so my question is: why do these projects have to be in the Growth Fund? Why wouldn't you just provide the Mobility Fund with more finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u77	That could also be an idea that you say: we have 20 billion in the Growth Fund; we see infrastructure as an important point in that, so we spend a third on it. A third of the amount we have, we then put into the Mobility Fund; then let it happen that way. That could be very good, but of course the ball is with us again. Maybe that's where it belongs, because there's the expertise here. That is a creative idea, but I do not think that the Growth Fund has been set up in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u78	No, but the important thing is that we, as politicians, are going to sing off that Growth Fund or not. We have to make choices about that now. At this Growth Fund, I can imagine something for innovative things like very fast train connections or things we don't have yet, but would Mr Dijkstra like to see with me for the traditional infrastructure if we could just leave them in the Mobility Fund? Then we have a political grip on it ourselves, then we know where it ends up and then it doesn't become things we don't want at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u79	Like I said, that's an interesting thought. Besides, I don't want to name any projects. We have all read about it in the newspaper: that project yesterday or the day before or that project in that region might be eligible. I deliberately don't want to mention them myself. Otherwise it will indeed be a wish list and then the strongest lobby wins. You also need to see how rational such an investment decision is. If you say infrastructure contributes to earning power, you have to prove it. I think you can prove that by showing what it solves with traffic jams or what faster connections there are with the rest of the country or within a region. I look forward to hearing your proposal. If you make a proposal later, we will certainly look favourably at it. In fact, I would also like to increase the Mobility Fund, because we still have so many wishes, not only for management and maintenance, but also for new investments. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a few questions for the Minister. We were just talking about the A27 and the route decision. We also asked questions about this with Mr Van Aalst in the written consultation. Can you tell me about the schedule? Can we expect those other six projects, preferably before the elections? 'Cause then we can move on. Then there is the use of resources. That's what Mr Stoffer was talking about. Can the Minister say anything about that? We want to use every euro effectively, whether it comes from our own Mobility Fund or from the Growth Fund. We want to solve bottlenecks. The foundation has to be good. We want to connect city and region permanently and continue to invest in it. Finally. Management and maintenance are becoming an increasing part. I can see that both government leaders are actually making funds available for that, but that, of course, pushes the new things into the background. Have they both in a moment, towards a formation and a subsequent cabinet, sufficiently substantiated that there are sufficient resources for management and maintenance, knowing that there are some major setbacks? Management and maintenance swallow up a lot, but we also have a desire for a number of new cases and for solving missing bottlenecks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u80	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has a question, or perhaps two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u81	I am going to list five examples of decision-making. Errors have been detected in the EIA Lelystad, but the decision-making process is still being pushed through. The noise standards at Lelystad Airport have not been validated externally, but the decision-making process is still being pushed through. For the calculations of bird collisions old data are used, but the decision-making process is pushed through. No nitrogen permit and nature permit at Schiphol Airport, but still the decision-making process is pushed through. The A27 and the PAS, yet decision-making is being pushed through. I have two questions. Is the VVD even attached to the rule of law? If so, how are we going to carefully review the decision-making of all these projects together with the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u82	One calls it coats, you call it push-through. What decision? We're still gonna talk about the Aeronautics Note. Those birds of yours come back well; there is even a new paragraph about that. This also applies to sound: there are all kinds of new calculations for that and we are going to measure instead of calculate. I'm sure you'll see that in the airline bill. Press the E.R. Lelystad? No decision has yet been taken on this. I hope that we will do so in December, as a coalition, broadly, because the problems we have identified have been tackled along the way, including nitrogen, permits, etc. So nothing is pushed through at all; it is done very carefully and as far as I am concerned it should have been much faster and could have been. But it must stand, so I attach great importance to the rule of law, especially since everyone is appealing again and this country is set up in such a way that everyone is free to do so. But that does mean that we are delayed, that the costs are rising, et cetera, while in the end we are all better off together if we can fly, for example from a holiday airport like Lelystad, and you don't have to go to the busy Schiphol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u83	It is very nice what Mr Dijkstra is trying to do here, by now saying that we have not yet taken a decision. That is right and that is also good news in that sense, but that is not because the Minister or the VVD did not want to. That is because citizens in particular are making efforts, because citizens must also go to court to recall decision-making that is really rattling. That is why this decision has not been taken, not because it has all been so careful. Does Mr Dijkstra agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u84	That it has to be carefully, I certainly agree. But that it's through, fortunately you won't come back on the basis of my answer either. You're opposition, so you're against business. But the majority in democracy decides here and you make agreements with each other. If the agreement is met, there will be nothing to prevent a decision from being made in the end. Because it's no good if we just slow down and train, while the Netherlands is then locked up or people lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u85	First, Mr Laçin? No? Oh, you're standing so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u86	I do that a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u87	Yeah, it's very healthy to stand. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u88	There are two more things that are mixed up. We are talking about care, and I think it is in the interests of the whole Chamber that decisions that we take, whether they are a fat 1.2 billion for a motorway widening or a new airport, should be taken carefully. That is not the case so far, because residents' groups have been able to prove errors in underlying calculations time and time again. That really shouldn't be heard, especially with an entire department with a lot of officials who are there. So we have to ensure that care is taken. Mr Dijkstra has just said with a great deal of aplomb that it is a well-founded plan for the A27. How does he know that? 'Cause we haven't seen anything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u89	We saw a route decision yesterday and this is undoubtedly being reviewed by all kinds of interest groups, opponents, you name it. You want to do all kinds of rounds of questions. I am pleased that this decision has now been taken, but I am sure that this will come before the courts and that it should be maintained. The judge ultimately decides whether it's careful or not. And if there have to be additions, as we saw with the PAS, which was rejected last year on 29 May... that has of course had a number of consequences. That's the consequences you're gonna fix now. The Minister assumes, and is also going to back that up to us, that this decision will stand. Well, great, then we'll support her in that. And I hope that the judge is also a bit accommodating in that and also sees that there is a broader interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u90	Wrong question, Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u91	We haven't seen a route decision, we've seen a video of a glowing minister signing a signature. We didn't see any evidence. I asked yesterday at the procedural meeting for that justification. I think it is absurd: the Commission for the m.e.r. says quite clearly "there is a lack of support for this decision," but the Minister goes on and the VVD says: yes, that is well-founded. That's not a way of governance, is it? We must submit this to the Commission for the m.e.r.? The Commission for the m.e.r. can test, so that it doesn't happen again at the Council of State, because then you really have a long delay on this project. So for the speed of the process it would be more purer to do the review with the Commission for the m.e.r., then a final decision and then the next steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u92	What's your question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u93	Or Mr Dijkstra agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u94	That it needs to be done carefully and stand by the judge, yes. And if the minister says that's possible, fine. Yesterday, you asked for support. I have now gone with you and said: within one day, and you cannot study all this in one evening, so let's do it at the MIRT. Well, I think that's coming towards the MIRT, and if it takes longer, it takes longer. If we get it sooner, we'll have it sooner. That's what we'll talk about there. And in the end, it's gonna come back to a judge, I'm sure, because you're an opponent, you don't want that whole project. You don't want any asphalt projects at all. That's okay, but with only o you can't solve the problem either. So I'm glad we're continuing to invest in a number of major projects that we need to keep our economy running, especially as soon as we get the rush and the traffic jams back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u95	Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u96	Mr. Chairman. Both in the Lelystad Airport file and in the broadening of the A27 at Amelisweerd, citizens have played a very central role in the identification of all kinds of issues and in exposing abuses, despite the decisions made by this minister. Now Mr Dijkstra just said something interesting, I thought. When it comes to decision-making, majorities decide. That is democracy, I think, Mr Dijkstra said literally. Then we have a minister here who wants to allow autonomous growth at Lelystad Airport against the wishes of the majority in this Chamber. The House has said by a majority: we do not want that. Nevertheless, a VVR, a traffic distribution rule, has gone to Brussels where autonomous growth is possible. It's approved. Does Mr Dijkstra accept that the majority of this Chamber says: we do not want autonomous growth, we are not going to do that, stop with Lelystad Airport if there is autonomous growth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u97	No, that's a motion from your hand. One of the 4,000 motions here a year. That is different from the coalition agreement, which simply states what the agreements are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u98	Mr Dijkstra just said literally himself: the majority decides; that is a democracy. The majority decided here: no autonomous growth of Lelystad Airport. Yet the Minister does. Then it would be reasonable for you to hold on to your own words from three minutes ago and say: yes, you are right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u99	I would like to go with Mr Laçin. The majority decides. That's not always 51% against 49% or something. The majority determines in a democracy, even general. Then you're talking about the traffic distribution rule. We sent it to Brussels. He's come back. We have sent a new one, because Brussels says very clearly: it cannot be completely excluded because of market forces and competition. So a new VVR has gone to Brussels, now with approval. It comes to the conclusion that 80% to 90% of what is going to fly on Lelystad, as soon as aviation recovers, are simply parties that are being moved from Schiphol. So only 10% or maybe 20% in the form of an Ryanair or whatever. We all have to see that, but I think the VVR will do. To rule out autonomous growth altogether is something you did in the motion. One of the 4,000 a year we file here with each other. That is quite different from the agreements made in a coalition agreement and in a coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u100	Now Mr Dijkstra is really making a mistake. Lelystad Airport has always been set as a 100% landing of Schiphol Airport, even in the agreements in 2008. That's always been said. That is what this Minister has literally said in debates. 100% landing. The Minister shakes no, but those statements are simply in the reports as well. She then resigned from the third VVR because otherwise she would not be able to pass through Brussels. Then the Minister told the Chamber that you do not want autonomous growth, but you must. Then it is up to us as a Chamber to decide by majority whether we accept yes or no. The majority here said: no, we do not accept that. What conclusion does Mr Dijkstra draw when the majority says: we are not going to do that, that was not the agreement, Minister you must stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u101	"Minister you must stop this" is not said. It has been said that Lelystad Airport is an overflow airport. I have just explained that the VVR and the M3 report, which you may also know, state that 80% to 90% of them are fulfilled. That's a new fact. As far as I'm concerned, that's more than enough. It means that there is enough enthusiasm to achieve this. Flying from there. It also has a number of advantages for the traveller. Again, one motion of 4,000... I'm comparing it to the coalition agreement and the agreements we made to open Lelystad. Those agreements include putting an end to low-flying routes, a VVR that stands and an airport decision. Those are the three conditions. If that is fulfilled, nothing stands in the way of doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u102	Thank you. Then we wait for a moment until the chair is cleaned and then I give Mr Ziengs the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u103	Thank you, Mr President. This budget leaves very little room for many innovations or improvements for the coming year. My group is aware of this, but a look at the future is, of course, a good opportunity for this. Let me start with public transport. Mr Dijkstra has already addressed the impact of the corona crisis on mobility in the broad sense. So I'm not going to repeat that. However, I would like to draw attention once again to the possibilities of open data. Platforms now offer all kinds of options the traveller can choose from. Open data contributes to the offer. Big steps can be taken here. What effort will the Secretary of State make in this regard? Then attention is paid to rail freight transport. Rail freight transport is efficient, good for the climate and necessary for our ports. There's still a few things to win. Think of not setting up trains with dangerous substances unnecessarily in urban areas. Take this into account when making investments. The independent Crisis Lab study indicates that regional public authorities often impose additional requirements that often do not serve safety, but do incur additional costs. What does the Secretary of State intend to do about it? Could this perhaps provide more room in future budgets? For example, a future construction of the south branch and the north branch of the Betuweline could come into view sooner. Future investment in rail freight should also pay greater attention to noise pollution. Track that was built more than 100 years ago for a few trains a day is now used to the maximum. Noise nuisance, due to a fault on a single wagon, and vibration damage are too common. The option to build new railways to avoid urban and residential rail transport should be on the table more often. This may mean higher costs, but in the longer term profit in solving damage through vibration and health gains by avoiding noise pollution. That brings me to the living environment. The Secretary of State has concluded the Clean Air Agreement with several municipalities and a number of provinces, the so-called SLA. I've drawn attention to this before. Let me start with the zero-emmission zones for city logistics. From 2025 it is possible for municipalities to introduce these zones. 2025 is coming in fast. Such major challenges for businesses must be feasible and affordable. Feasible because there are not enough loading posts and emission-free delivery and trucks. And at affordable prices, I call the coach industry, which is now running out of water. They often have to transport tourists to the heart of the city and see 2025 coming soon after this lost year. I ask the Secretary of State: what are the possibilities here for an exemption? Feasibility and affordability will be monitored, but what consequences will this monitoring have? There's no clarity about that. Surely we are not leaving entrepreneurs who are unable to make these substantial investments in the cold? Does the Secretary of State also have a picture of how many emission class 4 or lower vans are in use and will be banned from 1 January 2025? What are the consequences for these entrepreneurs? Do they have to stop their business? What percentage will be replaced by Z1 delivery vans with zero emissions in the run-up to 2025 and is this the percentage that the State Secretary considers desirable? This is also due to the fact that entrepreneurs are already replacing their vans with emission classes 5 or 6. That is where I immediately put the question as to whether the 185 million subsidy scheme for vans and 94 million for lorries is sufficient here. Does the Secretary of State see the Minister's ability to supplement the budget? And then another doom scenario. Businesses face a lot of investment in the coming years. There are commitments on CO emissions, nitrogen emissions and the ambitions in the Clean Air Agreement. What are the impacts on air quality already achieved by using nitrogen and CO policies so that companies can make the right investment choices to achieve the desired goals? Before the legislative instruments are put in place and implemented, you will need to have a sharp focus on whether additional measures are really needed. Firstly, it will have to be demonstrated that measures have a genuinely feasible, affordable and feasible environmental impact. Otherwise we will start the policy under the guise of: we do not know how much effect it has, but help all the little bits. And then you run the risk of costly investments being made at the wrong time or in the wrong place. On the contrary, we must strive for as much environmental gain as possible per euro invested. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate this? Then I come to other points that fall under the heading of living environment. Circular economy is a subject that should be raised on the agenda, because in addition to the environmental benefits, the Netherlands can continue to maintain its top position in terms of reuse. There is still a long way to go until "Netherlands circular in 2050." I mention the use of chemical recycling so that plastics do not go into the oven. The aim must be to be able to re-use the product produced here, not as a fuel, but as a raw material for making products. Legislation and regulations will need to be adapted to give companies more opportunities to innovate and experiment. I refer specifically to end-of-waste status. Is it possible to organise procurement with the government in such a way as to create an additional incentive to buy those circular products? Then some peculiarities in our pursuit of circularity. The collection of plastic via the pmd bins at the various municipalities does not seem to yield the benefits that are expected of it. When will the Secretary of State become aware that collecting by weight is not the instrument to achieve the quality of the plastic collected? When will quality collection be chosen? Has the Secretary of State also noticed in the figures that waste streams that have been collected virtually without pollution in the past are now suddenly to go into the incinerator? Gft appears to be contaminated by residual waste from citizens who, because of the unbridled drive of local aldermen, who want to score nice figures with low numbers of residual waste, hide their waste in those residual streams. In addition, the plastics, whose packaging suggests that they are compostable, also end up in the green bin. What is the Secretary of State going to do to eliminate these negative incentives? In addition, I was embarrassed to read the news of research journalist Jeroen Wester, who described in detail how plastic with Dutch label ends up in Turkey and is included in the figures of collected plastic, while it is not recycled. The answers to my written questions, Mr von Martels and Mrs Kröger have now been received. There is now contact between the ILT and the Turkish authorities. What are the results of that? The revision of the EVOA, the European Regulation on shipments of waste, is taking a very long time. Are there other possibilities, for example the possibility of sending the mandatory Annex 7 form digitally to the country where the waste goes? The ILT exchanged data with Turkey, Malaysia and Vietnam. I'm curious about the results. Is it possible to share these with the Room? And what incentives are we going to give to industry, without thinking directly of levies, to allow industrial waste, which often contains raw materials that can be reused, to choose a different route than the incinerator? And what about predistinction in places where it is already known in advance that the flows are going to be reseparated afterwards? Think of the waste bins at the Dutch Railways and in our own Lower House. Well, then we're just getting busy, aren't we? Aft separation of waste, with the exception of the well-known streams of paper, glass and gft, seems more successful than the separation in yield of reusable material. What is the Secretary of State going to do to stop this nonsense? Machines appear to be better separated than humans. Make use of that! Then there is a point about the standards that are being observed and that are being established by the RIVM. It's a good thing we have an RIVM that sets standards. Does RIVM also take the existing standards established in other countries? Are they watching that? With pfas we learned very expensive lessons from that. I'll get to that in a minute. Does the Secretary of State have an eye for the level playing field? The processing of cobalt for the production of catalysts that contribute to the reduction of CO risks being subject to more stringent regulations in the Netherlands than, for example, in America, thus transferring such business activities to this country, without any additional health risks appearing to exist. Then I come to the very worrying substances. The pfas-hope has taught us that it is possible to take down entire sectors with an early letter. That's very expensive tuition. Thousands of substances belong to the pfas. Companies are busy looking for alternatives to these substances whose list is getting longer and longer. It is right that alternatives are being sought, but do these companies have enough time to develop them? It has often taken many years to develop useful products that contain pfas. So it can also take many years to develop alternatives. How does the Secretary of State view this? To what extent is the final framework for action that is to come actually final? Another small point about water and legionella bacteria. Legionella has had my warm interest since 2013. In 2014 I came up with an initiative paper on legionella. One day a pilot would be started, but it apparently ended up in a forgotten corner. With colleagues Laçin and Van Brenn I made a work visit in which new techniques were shown to fight legionella. More commitment to combat: both colleagues have tabled a motion for this, which of course was also supported by the VVD. The Minister has now responded to this. However, in her letter she only talks about prevention, while the purpose of the motion is to combat legionella. Perhaps, with a view to the forthcoming legislative consultation on water, where it will undoubtedly be more widely discussed, the Minister will be able to say something about this in advance. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u104	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u105	Mr Ziesgs rightly draws attention to the very worrying substances and to the fact that they are particularly important. He is talking about developing alternatives and that may take a very long time. But how does the VVD look at alternatives for somewhat useless applications, such as pfas in pizza boxes and similar applications? Is that what we're supposed to want all of us to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u106	Mrs Van Eijs is right to give an example, which I think can be found in a rather easy way. These are matters that we must make clear. This is called a pizza box; there are already other things available for this. So, where you find that a particular product can be replaced quite quickly, I would say: make sure that you phase it out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u107	Yes, alternatives are available, such as a cardboard pizza box without pfas. My question is actually: should we not also consider whether some applications are needed when you see what serious consequences pfas and other very worrying substances have? Should we always replace all those applications that have been devised with other, perhaps risky applications in the future, or should we just say "we don't do this anymore"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u108	As long as people still want a fresh pizza on their plate, I do not think you can escape the fact that in the end a product is produced that is used to actually get that pizza fresh to the citizen. You will then have to look at how you get an alternative that has about the same effect. So I cannot go into every product in advance, but I can very well imagine the line that Mrs Van Eijs is proposing. If there are products that are easily replaceable by something else that gives you the same quality, whether it's a pizza or another product, then I follow her line. But to say in advance, this or that we're going to rule out... My point is: make sure you give companies time to offer a real alternative to products that have long needed to be developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u109	You were ready, Mr. Seengs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u110	Yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u111	Mr Amhaouch has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u112	Yes, because Mr Ziegs is going through his input like a high-speed line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u113	Well, I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u114	I just want to get back to the first block. That's my business, because it's about the railroad. Mr Ziengs has supported the Lelyline more often. How about for the next period? We would like to prepare that decision now. This is not in the VVD election programme. Should it be in there so we can hang out in the room together? I think there are a lot of parties here who like it. How does Mr Ziengs view this? Is he going to make it possible for the Lelyline to join the VVD election programme?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u115	It's a nice subject, the VVD's election program. As my colleague Dijkstra pointed out, it is a draft electoral programme. I understand it's all being amended. I can also tell you that a number of amendments are being tabled so that at least that Lelyline is also mentioned in the electoral programme. But that's what our members are all about, just like your party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. Then, before I give Mrs Kröger the floor, I would like to suspend for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u117	I give the floor to Mrs Kröger on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u118	Mr. Chairman. Today, a special debate on the budget, in the midst of the corona crisis that completely flattens our lives as we used to be, in the midst of a climate, biodiversity and nitrogen crisis that forces us to make other choices. We are at a turning point: back to what it was like or a new greener course in which we opt for nature, climate and people's health and where the public interest stands in one state and not the lobby of companies that violate our environmental rules. The corona crisis actually offers us a chance for a reset. A chance to break with old, worn-in habits, but that opportunity unfortunately seems to leave the cabinet behind. The cabinet remains committed to the growth of aviation and the major asphalt projects that have been on the agenda for years and years. Yesterday the route decision on asphalting Amelisweerd. Hopelessly out of date! We're not going back to the way things were, and we don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u119	Maybe a little early...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u120	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u121	...but for a while. I hear we're asphalting trees. Do you have any idea how many disappears and how many come back? Are you aware that there will be 33 or 35 hectares of new nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u122	Mr Dijkstra refers all the time with confidence to a decision that I do not think we have yet seen as a Chamber. That is precisely the fault of this debate: the Minister has signed a video like a PR stunt and sent it to the world to claim it, to beat her prick pole, but we really don't know what we're talking about. I am concerned that we are Amelisweerd, a unique estate, a unique area with centuries-old trees. I do not know if Mr Dijkstra is ever walking there, but I do sacrifice it for the broadening of a highway at a time when we see that traffic jams are getting worse and we are going to work more at home; all those arguments that Mr Dijkstra himself mentions. I find that completely incomprehensible, completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u123	I've been there before and I think it's a very nice area. We're talking about a bucket here. An x-number of meters disappears.......................................................................................................................................................... I think you should cherish that. That's ample compensation for what disappears.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u124	I would hope that Mr Dijkstra knows, if he knows anything about ecology, that it does not work that way. You cannot chop old trees on an estate in a beautiful nature reserve and then compensate with a new pick of nature. That is not how nature works, and I would like Mr Dijkstra to know that. In addition, the problem with the A27, with that container................................................................................................................................................. These are very serious ecological problems that have been put on the table, but this Minister is not doing anything about them. Instead, she continues with an unnecessary asphalt project. We really shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u125	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u126	Hopelessly out of date, I'm just trying to say. We're not going back to the way things were, and we don't want to. More homework becomes the norm, like meeting via Zoom, instead of flying over the world for that one meeting in Singapore. Mobility is changing, and that gives us the opportunity to make other choices, choices that are better for nature, for the climate and for people's health. Mr. Chairman. There is no subject we have debated in this Chamber as much as aviation. When the coalition agreement was presented, the growth of aviation seemed to be a fact. 600,000 or more flights: the VVD fantasized on their own. But the debate is tilted. There is now broad support for a new aviation policy in which the interests of nature, climate and people living around stand in one place, in which it is no longer about growth, no longer about growth. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we put two central questions: what aviation do we really need in the Netherlands and what is it worth to us? Only if we can answer these two questions properly can we make choices about the future of aviation. Aviation growth may be good for the sector, but it is detrimental to all residents, to the climate and to nature. I would like to ask the Minister what is going on with the implementation of my motion to map the aviation that the Netherlands needs, because that is, as far as I am concerned, the starting point. Can I look forward to the implementation of that motion for the examination of the Aeronautical Note? Dan Lelystad Airport. It's been going on for a while now in an interrupting debate. A majority of Dutch people want a fair price for flying. Everyone stumbles against the chest that in the middle of the corona crisis is stunted with flights for €5 to corona fireplaces. We don't want it anymore! We really need to tackle the incentive of cheap flies. That's what this cabinet wants, because it comes with a flight tax. It may still be a modest flight tax, but it's a start. In the meantime, how can you open an airport that is only aimed at driving those cheap flights? Lelystad Airport becomes a safe haven for prize fighters. That is the reality. Does the Minister recognise that the risk is great that with the current situation at Schiphol Airport that controversial traffic distribution rule is going to work even less well than what Mr Dijkstra described, from 80% to 90%? Even less good. When will the new investigation into the functioning of the VVR come? As far as we are concerned, that is a cornerstone of the debate. Then the endless search for the truth about the nitrogen calculations. I'll be honest here. We've all been working on it for three and a half years now, and it's making me really despondent. It makes me despondent when I look at the Minister's answers to all the parliamentary questions that I have asked together with colleagues. After all the errors in the sound calculations, there was also a lot wrong with the nitrogen calculations used to guide the decision on Lelystad Airport through this Chamber in 2015. My job, our job here is to check that this minister is doing her job properly. Good information to the Chamber is crucial for this. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I want to ask the Minister. We have asked before, but I'm going to ask her again: can she share all the nitrogen calculations that have been made and used for both the decision in 2015 and for the modified EIA in 2018 as well as the newly applied nature permit with the Chamber within a week? I am thinking specifically of the calculations made by the NLR in April 2014 and used for the PAS report at the time. I am also thinking of the calculations of 1 May 2019. Mr. Chairman. We need absolute transparency. I really shouldn't ask for it again and again as a Member of Parliament. Mr. Chairman. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, aviation must shrink. We opt for a smaller Schiphol Airport, focused on the aviation that the Netherlands has. Lelystad Airport doesn't open. Instead, we're full on more trains and fewer flies. I wrote an own-initiative paper on that earlier. The minister promised an air-rail plan, which I'm still waiting for. Today, I would like to share with the Secretary of State and with the Minister our top five of what needs to be done to give the international track a move. I have here the GroenLinks international railroad directory. I want to hand over this booklet to the Secretary of State, unfortunately, only one copy via the messenger. The GroenLinks international railway book. For London, Brussels and Paris, we need to grow to an hour shift. We can replace dozens of flights every day with that. I would very much like the Secretary of State to include this in the review of the concession. International rail must be more firmly anchored in the concession for the main rail network. Then to Germany. If we really speed up a doubling of the Utrecht-Arnhem and Eindhoven track to the junctions of the German high-speed network, we are not only faster inland, which has huge advantages, but we are also hours earlier at the ICE hubs in Germany. Thank you for the research on this, which was sent on Monday. What's next? We need to go north faster. We need to get to Groningen quickly inside the country. I believe that there are now a lot of parties in this Chamber who are very much in favour of this. We also need to connect to the German high-speed lines to Hamburg and Copenhagen and beyond. Then my favorite, as many may know: the night train. There is potential for Zurich, Copenhagen, Barcelona, Madrid, Rome. Those are all destinations where it would be great if we could drive the night train there. I have an amendment to create a game with which the Secretary of State can look for more partners who want to unlock our country by night train, because everything is happening in the countries around us and we need to make sure that the Netherlands is really hooked. Finally, the big picture for the slightly longer term. We are not going to settle that today, but we really need to move towards a European HSL network where a limited number of European train hubs are connected via really fast trains, alongside the existing rail system. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are going to finance it from a European kerosene excise duty. Then you really get more trains and less flying. Then from international rail to domestic public transport. It's an incredibly exciting time, but when the virus is under control, we need to familiarize the traveler with how fun and how pleasant the train actually is, especially for not necessary travel. I would therefore like to propose and ask the Secretary of State to look at a Dutch variant on the Hello Belgium Pass. With the Hello Belgium Pass, citizens in Belgium were allowed to take a free train trip twice a month. Once the virus has been overcome, that would also be a nice way to make a nice trip by train for everyone who has been at home for months now. A day at the museum or the amusement park, a forest walk or a weekend in Drenthe. Get to know the Netherlands by train. We've bought up millions of unsold O.V. capacity. Let us use them during the May or summer holidays to promote the train again. Discover the Netherlands, because that is also very good for all those local entrepreneurs in the hospitality and tourism sector. A sip of water before I start weighing. The KiM published its predictions last week for the next five years. "2020 turning point in mobility developments" was the headline. Corona has a long-term effect on how we move. The immediate effect is much less displacement, but also structurally the KiM expects us to work more at home. This, even if the number of journeys is increasing again, will lead to a much smaller peak. We can keep that peak small by spreading traffic and by working more often at home, as Mr Dijkstra has already mentioned. Driving accounts is coming up in a next cabinet; we all know that. So why decide now on useless asphalt? Yesterday, the Minister quickly signed the most controversial road project of the Netherlands, the A27, where an unnecessary widening of the road to the detriment of centuries-old forests. It is incomprehensible and an insult to all those residents and to the Chamber, which has an alternative proposal on the agenda at the beginning of December. The Minister writes in her press release yesterday that she is going to create new nature elsewhere. Mr Dijkstra also referred to this. The project therefore does not fit within the nitrogen space of the reduction in speed. What proportion of the total nitrogen space is taken by the A27? And how was this priority housing area secured? Is the announcement of the compensatory measures necessary the ADC test? 'Cause I can do that ADC exercise here in 15 seconds. A: Is there an alternative? Yes, a new rail line to Breda, mileage tax, a rush charge or a speed reduction to 80 km/h. There are plenty of alternatives. D: Is there a compelling social interest? No, because the traffic on this route has been stable for many years and the KiM expects it to stay that way for a while. Moreover, our nature is irreplaceable, while ever wider traffic jams have still not solved a structural traffic problem anywhere. And finally, C, compensate. That is the straw of this minister: destroying nature and creating new nature elsewhere. You can, but only if A and D didn't turn out to be an option. It's not interchangeable. So the Minister is now actually looking for a failure at the Council of State. This isn't good governance, is it? It's not good governance. Whether you are in favour of or against these new asphalt projects, as a Chamber, we must ensure that careful decision-making takes place. This decision, even before there is a nitrogen law, is anything but careful, also because we in the Chamber do not even know for what cost overruns the Minister has now signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u127	I was just listening and thinking about this ADC test: Alternatives, compelling reasons of great public interest and compensation. Shouldn't you also make it applicable to the night trains? Will you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u128	The night train is not a project for which you have to build infrastructure. Anyway, I'd like to do the exercise for Mr. Dijkstra. The night trains are about trying to reduce the most polluting form of transport and that is flying. That is the most polluting form of transport. You can replace that at short distances with the current trains up to 700 kilometers. On longer distances within Europe, the night train will be in sight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u129	Mrs Kröger has just referred to the KiM report which has just been published. I've been looking into that, too. I read that if we allow the planned expansion of road projects and the adaptation of our behaviour with online work and such a future, we will have a similar situation in 2025 as in 2019. I drive a lot with the train, but also regularly by car and those traffic jams in the middle of the country are really huge. I call Hoevelaken and the ring around Utrecht. Suppose we were to follow Mrs Kröger's line and we are not doing that project at the Ring Utrecht, for example, how does she see the future in 2025? So we're just stuck a lot more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u130	I think we've always been clear. We're not saying we don't want to do anything at the A27. All we see is an alternative. This alternative is also discussed as a Chamber at the beginning of December. That's the alternative "inside the bin," where you're actually applying a speed reduction. In addition, I believe that you have 700 million left over which you can invest in a better public transport and a better bicycle infrastructure. It's about allowing a careful alternative weighing to take place. What we are doing now is actually based on the old traffic models from a distant past, without taking the present reality with us and without taking it with us that we have other steering mechanisms such as driving. On the basis of that old model, we are making a decision that will cost at least 1.2 billion, which will also destroy nature and emit nitrogen and CO. I find that problematic, especially if there is an alternative.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u131	Good thing there's an alternative plan. It is always good to look at that, but does it really mean that there is just as much capacity for traffic, or are we really just going to create bigger traffic jams?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u132	I think it's a combination of more homework and more spreading. Hopefully, a next cabinet will be working hard on road pricing, with which you can really influence traffic. These are all the arguments that Mr Dijkstra has just mentioned. If you take that mix and you also have an alternative where you deal with the A27, but have money to invest in and not have to kill nature, then I think that's a very attractive alternative. I would like that alternative to be properly worked out, rather than going on with a project which has the function of allowing this Minister to put one more asphalt project in her name. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u133	That's what you fit for? This project started in 2008. That's been really thought through. That trachea decision has been destroyed. There's really been a lot of lawyers watching how you keep that up. Will Mrs Kröger now say, after 12 years of looking at it carefully, that we should just put it in the trash and we should start all over again? Then in 2040 we have no alternative, I think. I love new plans, but you really should have come up with them 15 years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u134	Those plans were there 15 years ago. It is, of course, absurd to hold on to the fact that we took a certain path twelve years ago, whereas the reality is now different. The challenges facing society in terms of climate and nitrogen are completely different. Then it is absurd to hold on to an old decision because it was once conceived and spent 1.2 billion of our taxpayers' money on it. I really don't think that's sellable. I also think that this project is going to die again on the same grounds. That is the tragedy that only leads to a longer delay. So just for all those people in this Chamber who want a quick solution to the A27, this prestige signature that the Minister has now made means that it will take longer for this node.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u135	The tragedy of GroenLinks is that the driver is not operated. I was curious about the ADC test, because it didn't go beyond the A, alternatives. Well, you're referring to flying. But what is the compelling reason for having a night train to Zurich? I would particularly like to mention compensation. Look, it stops at the border, of course, but what are we doing for the 1.3 million people who are now suffering from noise pollution? By the way, it is much higher than we allow in the aviation sector. 1.3 million people, 300,000 homes, now experience noise pollution from the railroad, especially at night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u136	The compelling reason is that we can replace flying within Europe by travelling by train. Up to 700 kilometers you can do that with fast trains and for longer distances you can do that with the night train. And then there's the nuisance. If you look at how many night flights there were for corona to and from Schiphol and how few night trains there are now, you can see that they are in no relation to each other. Plus, there are many more solutions to deal with nuisance by night trains than solutions to deal with nuisance by aviation. That's what we see in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u137	I'm off the charts today, but I'm not making up those numbers, they're in the RIVM report. 1.3 million people suffer from freight trains at night. The figure is 54 dB.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u138	Freight trains.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u139	Compare this with the 48 dB available in aviation and the approximately 114 000 severely hampered. Compare that with each other. That saves a factor of ten; plus there is a difference in the number of decibels. You can't deny that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u140	I think the problem is precisely that Mr Dijkstra compares apples with pears. He compares freight trains to night trains. With new equipment it is much quieter anyway. Plus, in various debates, we have always asked for all these measures to be taken for the sake of the railways in order to make things quieter. Mr Ziengs can confirm that. There is also a great deal to be done here, unfortunately in contrast to aviation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u141	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u142	Mr. Chairman. One last question about the nitrogen story A27. The Minister chooses to go further, while we still do not know how the cabinet deals with the Hordijk Committee and the maths about the maximum speed reduction and its significance for nitrogen space. The Council of State has destroyed the old plan, on nitrogen and on usefulness and necessity. I would very much like this amended EIA and the underlying investigations to be resubmitted to the Commission for the m.e.r. Let's do that structuralally. Let us have a large-scale infrastructure project, after criticism by the Commission for the m.e.r. or refer a negative ruling from the judge to the Commission again for the m.e.r. because it is the one who can check whether the new plan is satisfactory. After all, we all want to prevent the judge from destroying the second plan. Saves a lot of time, money and frustration. Is the Minister prepared to do this? Then the traffic in the built-up area. From all over the world I received reactions to the adopted motion on the 30 km/h as a starting point in the built-up area. The Netherlands is a cycling country. Let us then take the cyclist and the pedestrian as the starting point in traffic. I am very pleased that the Minister is working on the implementation of my motion. Investing in safe cycling infrastructure is crucial. I would like to hear more about this from one of the two directors. Finally, a number of points on the circular economy. We're getting deposit. Oh, thank God! After decades of delay, smokescreens, fake solutions and all kinds of delays, it's really gonna happen now. That could have been done sooner, but I also consider it a great success of this Secretary of State. Unfortunately, the fact that the plastic will be returned to the manufacturer is not yet a guarantee of reuse. It's gonna take more than that. In this way, we will have to move towards an export ban on plastic waste. Mr Ziegs referred just now to the problems that have been demonstrated in the export of waste to Turkey. That confirms my statement: only if we have sufficient recycling facilities of our own here can we be sure that it will actually be reused. Is the Secretary of State prepared to make full use of an export ban in Europe? Mr. Chairman. Just across the border, in Antwerp, a large new plastic factory is being built. Unfortunately, then, we will be the victims of the pollution caused by so-called nurdles. Is it true that this is contrary to the transboundary directives, and what can the Netherlands do to prevent this pollution? It's only gonna be sustainable if we make a lot less stuff to throw away. We have rules to use less plastic in packaging material. I asked the Secretary of State earlier, and the ILT is now going to supervise unnecessary packaging materials for wax softeners. That's a first step, but I'd love to be a little more ambitious. Can the Secretary of State undertake to monitor those essential requirements in the top ten of the most common types of packaging, which are actually a great tool for reducing plastic use, because they are actually being applied? Then the single-use plastics. In Europe, an encouraging move has been made, for example, to ban swabs and straws. I really want the Netherlands to ban much more nonsense plastic, such as the plastic in tea bags or the damp wipes, which also hide the sewers. There is no need for that, it is bad for the environment, and there are excellent alternatives. Is the Secretary of State going to put more ambition into that Single-use plastics directive, and when can we see that? Finally, hormone-distorting substances. Many daily products, such as cosmetics, contain these types of dangerous substances. Europe is coming up with strict legislation, but what can the Netherlands do to improve information? Because the website Waarzitwatin.nl doesn't match that new European proposition. Is the Secretary of State prepared to tighten this up and also to provide additional information to target groups, such as pregnant women? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In recent years, there have been a number of files that have caused a dent in public confidence. The mess in the calculations around Lelystad Airport, granules, the pollution by Chemours and Tata, are a few examples where the general interest was not structurally paramount. The specific interests of the polluting industry too often go beyond the importance of clean air, clean water, climate and nature. With a few more months to go, I hope that these two rulers choose care over speed. Don't just rush through projects, so it's all messed up. More asphalt and more cheap flights is not what the Netherlands needs right now. Let us choose nature, climate and people's health. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u143	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. I now give the floor to Mrs Postma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u144	Mr. Chairman. "A goal without a timeline is only a dream." It's my favorite statement from one of the Sharks in the American series Shark Tank, a program in which novice entrepreneurs keep a pitch for big investors. And when the CDA takes stock of the last four years, the images, the wishes, the thoughts of the Minister on important issues such as road and road safety seem to remain only with dreams, and that is a pity. I have just said that in years not as little asphalt has been added as under the Rutte III cabinet, only 207 kilometres. A dream for GroenLinks, I think, but it should be a nightmare for the self-proclaimed midget party, the VVD. The Minister may point out the long lead times of infra projects, but her predecessor was also a VVD. The CDA has called for actions, for example at the N35, where despite many adopted motions of CDA and PVV decisions were not taken. We hope that the MIRT letter will finally offer the redeeming decision. Full of anticipation beats our hearts. There were seven MIRT projects in the coalition agreement, and we have four months left. Yesterday we heard the news that the Minister has taken a step on one of the routes: a route decision for the A27/A12. An important step forward, and also important to take decisions at this time which will be of benefit to us in the future. Mr. Chairman. Then the closing dike. It is striking that more and more larger projects are not going according to plan. For example, the renovation of the closing dive takes at least three years longer due to a design flaw and costs hundreds of millions more. Three years longer! How? How can this happen? Three years of extra trouble. Three more years of delay. It's a nightmare for Friesland, and also for West Friesland. I'd like a response from the Minister. Can the Minister promise that the cyclist will also be taken into account during these additional three years, which was forgotten last time? Mr. Chairman. Then the toll for the Westerschelde tunnel. It keeps us all busy. Does the Minister also see benefits for the prosperity and well-being of the Zeeuws in eliminating the toll? Does the Minister agree that this is an incentive for the region? Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u145	But first Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u146	First of all, it is striking that the CDA wants to take over the role of the VVD as an asphalt and car party, but that is not why I came here. You would say that for the future we should primarily invest in RD, but that is not my question either. That's kind of my assumption. For example, the Lely line, expanding the North/South line, the subway, that sort of thing. But my question is about that Westerschelde tunnel. I have seen Mrs Postma's reaction to the proposal that Mr Laçin and I are doing seriously today. That is an end to the injustice for the people in Zeeland who have to pay tolls, the only ones in the Netherlands. We have made a proposal that is very reasonable from the opposition. As an opposition, we could put that whole amount of perhaps more than 300 million in an amendment. It'll be voted off. Then we'll make something out of it in the media and nothing will happen tomorrow. That is why we have said: let us solve it for next year, for 30 million, with broad support here in the Chamber, also because of corona, the Belgian borders have also been very often closed. And what is my surprise? Mrs. Postma says no, we're gonna check that out. But it's been investigated endlessly. There's an investigation from 2018. There is an investigation from 2019. There is an investigation by Mr Wientjes. They all say: this is injustice and we have to solve this. Are we going to solve it together for Zeeland-Flanders today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u147	I think we all share the view that we need to find a solution here. Only, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Laçin also know that what they are asking for, I think it is 20 million in the amendment, but I can hear him say 30 million at the moment just isn't there. I therefore believe that this is something that we must take into account. If you really want to move forward, if you really want to look at a solution that is sustainable, if you really want to look at how you help that region develop, then you have to deal with this with small steps, then you have to look at how you're going to get there. That 30 million is a solution for one year. After that, there's nothing left. As far as we are concerned, that is simply not feasible. That's how real it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u148	Well, it's just a small step to solve it for next year, with a view to formation. Indeed, I see that several parties in the Chamber see what is happening there and that we have to resolve it here for Zeeland. I also think there is a great sense of injustice among the Zeeuws. That is right, so we have a responsibility in that too. So I think it is reasonable to have 30 million, from the huge support packages that we are currently giving because of corona to companies and to people to keep everyone in the air... We could get 30 million out of that budget. Billions are currently being spent for next year. Then we will solve it for next year, and then it will indeed be our responsibility to resolve it completely in the long-term formation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u149	Again, we all see the problem. We also see the desirability of a solution. However, the solution offered here by the PvdA and the SP is unrealistic and not feasible in our view. We would like to see a further long-term solution, but this cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr Laçin, the middle microphone, and it is your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u151	I am very surprised at this response from Mrs Postma. She says the money isn't there. The money's here. It's an amendment with cover, so the money's here. We're talking billions here, talking 30 million. Mrs Postma says it needs to be solved in steps. Yes, this is the first step! This is the first step, backed up by 30 million, wherever we get it from. Next year, as a Chamber, we will be able to come together to the conclusion of a toll-free tunnel in the future. Because Zeeland and Zeeland-Flanders deserve that. I think we can agree on that. Mrs Postma should not dismiss our proposal as an election stunt, because for years the SP has been advocating that this tunnel should be made toll free, and she does not have to come up with the request for a repeat investigation that has been done over and over again, because then it is the CDA that is diving for responsibility and then it is not the SP and the PvdA. Let's go together, with a substantiated amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u152	No, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u153	... at least give the Zeeuws a toll-free tunnel for one year and let's use that year to find a long-term solution. That's how we're gonna fix it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u154	You could have saved that for your second term. That was just not an interruption. But you may respond to it, Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u155	My answer remains the same. I think we recognize the problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u156	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then road safety. What's really a nightmare is the results we get on road safety. It's now 2020. For those who are concerned with road safety, this should be the year, the year to which more than a decade has worked. By 2020, no more than 500 people should be killed in traffic and we would not want more than 10,600 seriously injured. For years we have worked on this, we have put it in the budget in a table and we have been able to look back at this visible objective. But that objective has disappeared from the budget since last year and the Netherlands is crashing hard on the international road safety lists. We have over 600 road deaths a year; that's 2 per day. We have more than 21,000 serious injuries per year; 58 per day, just over 2 per hour, of which a quarter will never fully recover. As far as the CDA is concerned, additional measures are needed, such as a helmet duty for mustache cyclists. We received a letter on that yesterday. It's a small step in the right direction, but we're not there yet. Further measures are needed to reduce the number of road casualties, such as tackling traffic hoods. To this end, I have recently submitted an own-initiative paper. One of the important points in it is enforcement, for example, with the use of smart cameras that check for ignoring a red cross or on appendages in traffic. They're great. One of the main causes of traffic victims is distraction from using your mobile phone. SWOV has investigated in one of its investigations how dangerous the use of your phone is when you drive, and then I'm referring to appen, social media checking or even playing games. More than a third of the people appear to be sending messages while they are driving and some people even turn out to be playing a game of wordfeud. Absurd! It's all actions that really get you off the road for a few seconds with your attention. It can't be. Here's the important point: it's just as dangerous when you hold the phone, which the law doesn't allow, when you have it in your car in the holder, which the law does, sometimes. Sometimes you can't. But both are equally dangerous. The CDA therefore does not want people to tap or check their social media when the phone is in the holder. Efforts are being made to eliminate this behavior with MONO and agreements are being made with employers, but this does not give sufficient results in terms of the CDA. When I drive, I still see people who are busier with their phones than on the road. I better be clear: the CDA wants to check, even when the phone is in the holder, a ban on appendictions, games, sending messages, social media and all those things that are not necessary to drive your car and participate safely in traffic. I would like a response from the Minister. Does the Minister share our concerns? Does the Minister agree that the measures so far are insufficient and that more is needed? What steps could the Minister take? Does the Minister agree that appetizers should be prohibited in the holder? When can we get this going? Mr. Chairman. If there's something hard to change, it's behavior. The corona crisis has forced a change in behaviour to accelerate. We work much more at home. And that's possible, we notice. For example, employers find that workers also take responsibility at home. For example, workers with children see the advantage of getting their children out of care because they are not in traffic. Of course, we are all looking forward to going to work more physically than we are now. This also has social and practical advantages, such as contact with colleagues. But all the way back to the old situation would be a missed opportunity. Let us take this moment to ensure that those who have given birth are allowed to work more often at home in order to reduce the problem of congestion structurally. Just before the summer, the Minister indicated that he would talk to VNO-NCW about smarter and more flexible work at home. How's this going? How does the Minister take the Chamber? Does the Minister see any chance that these talks will lead, for example, to the fact that not every company wants a team meeting again on Monday morning, and that not everyone chooses the same day to work at home? Mr. Chairman. Then inland navigation and shipping. I would like to make three points on this subject. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the seamen's homes, because the care of international seafarers is at risk. Because of the corona crisis, the seamen's houses are on the water's lips. The sailors' houses are an opportunity to get off the ship and have a moment of contact with the home front. Especially the seamen's houses in Vlissingen, Terneuzen, Schiedam and Moerdijk threaten to go under financially. The Empire is also obliged to provide support under international conventions. In 2005, the State subsidy for seamen's homes was discontinued without ensuring that care can be operated independently. Can the Minister look at this? I'd like a response. The second point concerns the Green Deal for inland waterway transport. There is a subsidy scheme linked to that for retrofit engines. How does the Minister ensure that inland waterway vessels actually make use of this subsidy? Given the previous bad experience with the VERS scheme? What accompanying policies and conditions does the Minister have in mind to make this grant a success? The final point. The storm season is about to start again the OVV report on the MSC Zoe has recently appeared. We were pleased that the Coast Guard was already working on the advice one day after. Does the Minister share our enthusiasm and does she believe that the Coast Guard is sufficiently equipped to accompany ships in the coming storms? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. "I have a Dream" is perhaps the most beautiful speech in history. But also this dream would have remained only a dream if there had not been people who fought hard every day to make this dream come true. We share the dream of safe traffic, we share the dream of a well-achieved Netherlands, but that timeline and the actions, as far as the CDA is concerned, can be more concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u158	Mr Stoffer, your last question. You're looking at me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u159	One or two questions, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u160	One.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u161	It's a good thing you say that, because I'll wrap it in one. I missed one thing with Mrs Postma. Perhaps Mr Amhaouch will be speaking about it shortly, but it is about the coach industry. Last week two motions were put to the vote, one last week and one jointly and severally yesterday. One belonged to Mrs Postma; she made it. It said something like "helping the coach industry through the crisis." Mine didn't make it. Ms. Postma could have made the difference, with 68 to 69 it went wrong. I am making the question a little more extensive, Mr President, because I only have one. Anyway, it said something of "directed support and report to the Chamber within a month." I don't want to look back; I don't care why you didn't vote for it. The point is that the coach industry needs to be improved. Last Monday I was at Zwaluw Travel, one of those coach companies. The KNV, the branch organisation, was there and he said: "Chris, what really needs to happen is this. That TVL, that Meeting Fixed Charges, shouldn't be 33% like taxis, but 42%. And for the top companies, it must be a one-time thing for the Euro-5 and 6-buses, that is, for all these durable buses." My question is whether Mrs Postma would really like to help that coach industry to table a motion in which we lay down these two aspects. Then we can forget everything from the motions before that and be really helped. That is my question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u162	I think Mrs Postma has a very short answer. Mrs. Postma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u163	Thanks for the question. As far as we are concerned, it is very important that we look closely at these coach companies to see how we can help. But my experience with these coach companies is also that they are so incredibly different in business. So where one company, for example, has a lot of coaches and is not on the balance sheet, and benefits from a bank or guidance in it, another company has a completely different structure. I also notice that coach companies operating in the border region, for example in Limburg, have other problems because they compete with Germany and Belgium. That is why, as a CDA, we said in that consultation: "Dear Secretary of State of IenW, dear Secretary of State of EZ, talk to this industry together and look at that industry as such, because it is not "one size fits all" in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u164	Okay, thank you. No, no, Mr. Stoffer. If I allow it... Mr Laçin is also counting. He'll get up right away. You have well understood that the answer is "no." You were ready, weren't you, Mrs. Postma? Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr. Chairman. That was an important question from Mr Stoffer about the coaches. So if the coach industry sits at the table with the ministers and then comes back, we can always see how we can help them with concrete solutions. But that's not in my package; it was in Mrs Postma's. She answered it correctly. I'm going to talk about rail and aviation, Mr. Chairman. On the rail section, I would like to focus on regional developments and developments in the region. First the Lelyline, which comes after this cabinet when it's up to the CDA. The initial investment is substantial, making the link to 100,000-plus homes work as an economic catalyst. With the Lelyline, one plus one is three. The Lelyline in combination with housing provides a better accessibility of the North, a substantial contribution to addressing the housing shortage and future economic development of the North. The Lelyline is very promising when the four northern provinces, Friesland, Groningen, Drenthe and Flevoland, unite and look beyond their own provinces and join hands. Secondly, the link with the large housing valuation of 100,000-plus homes is the key game changer to make the Lelyline feasible and feasible. Thirdly, the Lely line can have an important added value in the future for the accessibility of Lelystad Airport and for the connection to Bremen and Hamburg. We need to zoom out, look beyond borders and think bigger. This can be done by a delta plan for the North, which contributes to the future growth potential of the Netherlands. Can the Minister and the Secretary of State undertake to work together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs to come up with an integral plan on which the Chamber can take a decision in principle towards the elections and the new government agreement? Then homework is done. The red line in my story is that the CDA thinks we should invest in the regions. There is growth potential in economic terms, with the combination of work and living. Regions are often interconnected across national borders. That is why the CDA is fully committed to cross-border rail. Hsl hubs close to each other across the border must be connected. That creates regional cohesion. This will make international rail transport a really good alternative to short-distance flights. Something I think we all want. Examples include Eindhoven-Düsseldorf, Heerlen-Aachen, Hengelo-Osnabrück-Hannover, Leeuwarden-Groningen-Bremen and Maastricht-Liege. We are not just asking the Secretary of State to express the ambition, because it does not allow you to cross the border. We ask for concrete decisions and realizations, starting with the low-hanging fruit. The CDA wants the Secretary of State with Germany and Belgium, and supported by the European Commission, to present a future picture of 2030-2040 cross-border rail. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do this? Unfortunately, we see the current approach as a dead end, with too many delays and hardly any progress. The great challenge of mobility and climate change requires coordination, commitment, perseverance and hard euros. I hope those are from Mr. Timmermans, too, from the Green Deal. The trail also has major disadvantages. Many residents have justified concerns about the increasing noise and vibrations on and around the track. How does the Secretary of State ensure that the concerns of the residents are properly heard and resolved quickly, in order to prevent us from rising at capacity and frequency limits due to noise ceilings in the near future? Apart from noise and vibration, trains with dangerous substances, the poison trains, still run. These are necessary for the transport of fuels and raw materials for industry, but on the other hand cause a lot of unrest among residents, including in cities in Brabant, Limburg, Gelderland and Overijssel. Can the Secretary of State give you a final update? Are there alternative routes possible, so that the concerns of the residents can be removed? To what extent does the State Secretary investigate alternative transport methods, such as a pipe system or water transport? And how much money is reserved for this? Then I want to talk about the so-called right to challenge at stations. Many small stations in the Netherlands have an important regional function, but often look simplistic and gray. The CDA believes that the community and organisations in the region can play their own role in making these stations more liveable. For example, the station in Deurne, a neighboring municipality of mine in North Brabant, has even fallen into the prices because of the metamorphosis of the station area. A corporation of local residents and organisations has refurbished the station with a cafeteria, ground maintenance, artworks, a vegetable garden and social activities. In the United Kingdom this is already a major phenomenon: the community stations. What does the Secretary of State think of this idea? Is it prepared to encourage this on a large scale and to make policies of this kind, so that one is not dependent on regional or individual policies? The aim is to make the station part of the community. The station is also ours. What is financially possible to set up a fund for this purpose, to set up co-financing between the various authorities, carriers and ProRail? We are considering tabling a motion on this point. Then the piece of innovation so we slowly make the bridge to innovation and rail. You know that innovation is at the service of our society. Many trains during the day, outside the hyperspits, drive empty and move air. For the corona period, the occupation was between 11.00 and 15.00 hours only 12% to 25%. That is not the core task of carriers like the NS. We will also have to think groundbreakingly and innovatively on the railways. Firstly, to improve the affordability of rail. Otherwise, in the long run, we're gonna be driving open-eyed on the block. Secondly, we will have to deal with a large distribution notice for supplying our stores, catering and delivery of online ordered packages in the increasingly dense cities. The Turboplan Mobility and Environment 2020 contains a concept idea to combine light goods, supplies and package transport with passenger transport on trains. For example, look at passenger airplanes that also carry cargo in the belly. In the case of trains, for example, empty coupés can be converted into package coaches. Is the secretary of state familiar with this idea? Does the Secretary of State dare to look ahead and is she prepared to have a serious investigation into this and talk to the initiators? What should be adapted to this in future concessions or the Railway Act? Corona and solidarity. The last point on the rail section, but not least, relates to the corona crisis that unfortunately we are still in. The corona crisis also calls for drastic measures in various areas of society, in order to protect both health and the economy. For this reason, the CDA would like to see second-class travellers access to first class in this crisis. These difficult times call for solidarity. Difficult times, special times also require special measures. Does the Secretary of State wish to discuss this with the carriers in order to provide them with a joint response as long as the corona crisis so requests? Then I'll get to the piece of cargo. First of all, the aviation and the cargo aircraft component. Firstly, as a CDA, we are pleased that the cabinet has made a wise decision to waive the freight tax. The many employees at Schiphol Airport, especially those at Maastricht Aachen Airport, will also be grateful to the cabinet that their jobs have not been put at risk. Secondly, these people in the freight sector will play an important role in the entire logistics operation on the roll-out of the vaccine. The House of Representatives has almost unanimously adopted a motion from me calling on the government to work towards greater cooperation and coordination between airports of national interest. According to the motion, a strengthened direction is needed between the larger airports in the different regions, in order to ensure that there are no unexploited opportunities and threats are eliminated. The motion mentions six airports: Schiphol, Lelystad, Rotterdam The Hague Airport, Eindhoven, Groningen Airport Eelde and Maastricht Aachen Airport. How's this going? I assume the conversations have taken place. What's the outcome of this? Does this point deserve a proper flooring? I believe that if aircraft become cleaner, quieter and more economical in the next decade, these regional hubs will become more important. We must dare to look forward. Time doesn't stand still. What is the Minister's view on this and how is she going to give this a place? Mr. Chairman. I think the Minister remembered: measuring is knowing if you know what you're measuring. Improving noise measurements and bringing the corresponding calculations closer together will lead to more and better understanding, transparency and confidence and to better enforcement. Can the Minister share the progress and the main interim results with the Chamber? Finally, the latter. In view of the great challenge we have in terms of sustainability, climate and nuisances, which applies to the people behind the figures, we are asking proactively to start with the implementation of the innovation section in the concept of Air Navigation Note. How is the Minister going to ensure this structuralally? Does the Minister have any ideas for setting up a platform for this? What is the active role of the high-tech systems and materials industry? And certainly not unimportant: how will this be financed with both national, European and private resources? Right in time, Mr. Chairman. I've got four seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u166	Yeah, neat. Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u167	Of course, I supported the motion Mr. Amhaouch mentioned. The PVV has asked the Minister to place Groningen Airport Eelde and also our beautiful Maastricht Aachen Airport, Airport Beek, at the Schiphol Group. One wants to be a little more independent and the other thinks it can go all the way to Schiphol. Air traffic control alone for those two airports costs millions a year. They cannot benefit from military air traffic control, as Eindhoven Airport can. Schiphol has it all. We can help them with that. The most important thing is that, for example, the hospital in Groningen may lose its university title when flights with, for example, organs can no longer take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u168	And the question to Mr Amhaouch is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u169	I would like to ask if he can support that request. Since we already have so many aviation debates, I have not brought it up, but since he is bringing it up, he may be able to support it as a friend of Limburg and ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u170	I brought it up because we think it is very important. The CDA and D66, Mr Paternotte, have tabled a motion on the same subject. I think it's obvious to include that in the Schiphol Group. Rotterdam Airport is already from the Schiphol Group, Lelystad Airport is towards the future of the Schiphol Group. Eindhoven Airport is also owned by the Schiphol Group. You'll only have two smaller airports, north and south. I think we should look forward. We need to figure out why we're gonna need those smaller airports in ten years. You have to look at all kinds of areas.. The Netherlands is a small stamp country.. and go to some sort of system airport. We have also asked the Minister to look at Europe, how to steer better at national level and at final allocation. I think the Minister should have a good talk there. Such a breakthrough always involves a bit of opposition and counterwind. First you're gonna look at the added value and then you're gonna peel off who's gonna pay what cost. It'll always come down to that. So let's hang out together, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u171	Look, that's an invitation to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u172	I would also like to do so, for the benefit of Maastricht Aachen Airport, the freight airport of the Netherlands, but also for Groningen Airport and its supporters. Groningers and Limburgers, even people from across the border, use these small cozy airports. But my question is, will Mr. Amhaouch support that? I would like to make one more comment. Mr Amhaouch says: we think this is important. Well, the PVV thinks aviation is super important. We have been the aviation party for 14 years, but because we already have so many aviation debates, I have not brought it up now. That has nothing to do with the fact that it is not important. But everything you have now brought in, we have already brought in the aviation debates. So it doesn't bring anything new, but I'm asking for your support to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u173	We support that line, but I have just asked the Minister to take that floor strike. The Minister has promised to talk to the regional airports. The province of Limburg has a share in it. And we have Tynaarlo Groningen, where the county has a share. I'm looking for that floor hit. That floor strike needs to be taken very seriously. Then it comes back to this room and then it can be peeled off. But one thing is clear: the Netherlands is a small country and we need to move towards a system approach. If it's foggy in Eindhoven, they'll land at Maastricht Aachen Airport, and vice versa.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u174	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Laçin on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u175	Mr. Chairman. Today and tomorrow we are discussing the budget of Infrastructure and Water State for the year 2021. This is my last budgetary treatment as a Member of Parliament and the last for this Minister and Secretary of State, at least during this cabinet period. It is therefore logical to look back on the past few years and try to look forward with that knowledge. Looking ahead is not easy; whatever we are discussing here today, reality can be different tomorrow. The corona crisis makes a lot of uncertainty, but at the same time also makes what we already knew and saw more visible. Despite the corona crisis, the climate crisis, the nitrogen crisis and, for example, the poor air quality in different places in our country, we see that this cabinet and these rulers want to continue to make choices. This does not encourage sustainable solutions and increases the problems that exist. The corona crisis has made us realize who are crucial to keeping society running: our caregivers, our supermarket employees, our teachers, our freighters. They're all workers who've had a hard time over the last few years. Think of the tough cuts in health care, the flex jobs in the supermarkets for the minimum wage, the enormous workload in education and drivers who suffer from tough competition. This group of workers also includes the O.V. staff. They also worked during the crisis in order to bring everyone safely to work. It's time we didn't just go clap for them, because they don't buy much for that. It is now a question of giving them security and perspective. That is what they deserve and what they are entitled to. After 20 years of market operation in public transport, we see that there is little left for passengers and workers of this security, especially in urban and regional transport. Bus lines have been replaced by neighborhood buses, which have stood still during the corona crisis and are still standing still. Bus lines are lifted, shortened or merged by the race down, which means that more and more people can't call on the O.V. Bus lines disappear because they don't bring enough money into carriers' pockets. Anyone who gets into trouble or becomes socially isolated is not important to them. Bus drivers and drivers can also talk about this, about the consequences of this market: deteriorating working conditions, increasingly flexible contracts and worse equipment to work with. That's why they stopped. For change and more certainty. For less market forces and more control. But this cabinet also stands for more market forces, including on the track, while the NS, still a 100% state participation, performs very well and further improves its performance annually. In fact, the NS performs so well that the contribution to the state treasury has helped to ensure that commercial carriers were kept alive during the corona crisis. The NS keeps commercial companies that prefer to make the NS smaller, partly standing. That is the reality, and that shows once again the failure of market forces. As far as the SP is concerned, we will stop this market operation as soon as possible. The NS provides passenger transport services on the main rail network for at least 10 years without transferring parts of the network to other companies. When it comes to urban and regional transport, provinces are given the opportunity to set up their own transport company and to give transport to these companies directly, just as happens in Amsterdam, Rotterdam and The Hague. Can the Secretary of State explain what is needed for this purpose and what points should the Passenger Transport Act 2000 be adapted to? To get to work on this, I have tabled an amendment which should enable the first steps to be taken towards a public sector. I hope for the support of the Secretary of State and, of course, of the Chamber. On this point, I would also like to add a great deal to what Mr Amhaouch said, in order to open up the first class to the second-class traveller. It is an old SP point to permanently abolish the second class and allow everyone to travel first class, but in the context of solidarity in this crisis, we must make the train attractive and open first class to second-class travellers so that there is more room and therefore it becomes safer. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis has also hit aviation hard, especially the workers. For where airlines can count on state aid and use aid measures such as the NOW, it is the workers who have been made redundant in large numbers or for whom there is a threat of dismissal. How does the Minister feel that thousands of people have been dismissed from KLM and that the state aid of EUR 3.4 billion goes to oil and leasing companies abroad to a large extent? Is that where the cabinet's solidarity lies? Does the government consider the fossil industry to be more important than hard-working people in aviation? The answer to that question is: yes, still yes. In the middle of the corona crisis, the Minister came up with her draft aviation note, which continues to focus on aviation growth. Schiphol must grow and Lelystad Airport must open for commercial holiday flights. In times of a corona, nitrogen and climate crisis this sounds like a bad joke, yet this is the conviction of this minister and her VVD. We do not need a growing aviation sector, rather a shrinking air transport sector. Schiphol should be there for flights that add value to the economy and create jobs. The race down must stop. I have therefore argued more often for less competition and more cooperation at Schiphol Airport. Now I read that in corona time a seventh groundhandler arrives at Schiphol, namely Viggo. I can't reach it with my head. I would like a response from the Minister: how can that be, especially in the middle of the corona crisis? Short-haul flights at Schiphol Airport must be replaced by international rail links. The enlargement of Lelystad must not be achieved and the position of regional airports such as Groningen and Maastricht, which have been struggling for years, must be thoroughly evaluated. At Rotterdam there are sometimes only three flights a day. Are there alternatives that offer added value and are more sustainable? Can the Minister respond to that? Thinking in the old fossil way isn't like this time anymore. The current crisis requires different choices. Invest in the Lely line, the Lower Saxony line, in corridors to Germany, in passing the intercity from Heerlen to Aachen, in rail doubling between The Hague, Rotterdam and Dordrecht. How do these projects stand, I ask the Secretary of State, for example, in the light of the Growth Fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u176	Mr Laçin quickly moved from aviation to rail, an important subject in itself. However, I would like to dwell on the position of the SP. I've been in the Chamber for almost five years, but I can't get a finger on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u177	It's mutual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u178	If we have to invest in employment, in stimulating our business, which is important for bread on the shelf for all families, whether it's by rail or aviation, I never hear the SP. At the moment when there are risks of people being fired, whether at Tata, KLM or somewhere else, I will meet Mr Laçin on the platform. What is it? Do you want Schiphol and KLM to go back to 500,000 and keep their jobs and have bread on the shelf? On the one hand, thousands have been laid off and on the other hand, you say that aviation must shrink. I'm not saying you have to grow huge. Does the SP agree that we need to get back to the normal level at which we first sat, so that those people can keep their jobs, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u179	I can hardly follow the position of the CDA and even Mr Amhaouch's question. It's going all over the place. We stand for sustainable jobs. Mr Amhaouch knows that. We have had this discussion many times. In recent years, aviation has grown unbridled, unbridled. We talked to these employees at Schiphol University during a talk show by the FNV. What did they say? "We don't see any of that." So sticking to the old pattern, the old fossil thinking that we're going to go back to the 500,000 and all those jobs are back, can't be, because that's not true and so does Mr Amhaouch. Those thousands of people have already been fired and then Mr Amhaouch was nowhere, nowhere. We have worked hard not to link redundancies to the state aid granted to KLM. Mr Amhaouch has voted against it. Thousands of people on the street, at the hands of the CDA. In response to what Mr Amhaouch says outside the microphone, I am speaking about my own answer. The SP doesn't want to go back to the 500,000. No, I was talking about a shrinking aviation sector. The point is to see which flights we want, which flights do not add anything to our economy and do not create jobs. These are short-haul flights, for example. We're gonna have to replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u180	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u181	And then we come to a sustainable aviation sector, which is good for the environment, for climate and for jobs. That's all taken together. You shouldn't pick out a small part of it and then do cherrypicking, like the CDA does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u182	Please continue. You guys started out so nicely...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u183	I would have stayed by the roads, Mr. Chairman. No unnecessary widening of the road like the A27 at Amelisweerd, where the minister thinks he can fight with all kinds of tricks while the need is not there and wider highways are not going to cause less, but only wider traffic jams. Cleaner air in city centers due to fewer cars and more space for cyclists and hikers. It's necessary. Luckily, the Secretary of State nods. Mr. Chairman. I will make a number of specific points during the MIRT debate, but, as the directors and the Chamber have seen, the SP and the PvdA have tabled an amendment to free the Westerschelde Tunnel for one year. That year should be used to arrive at a long-term solution so that a toll-free tunnel can finally be established. The region deserves it. The SP has been advocating this for years. The disadvantage of the Zeeuws and the Zeeuws-Vlamingen, which sometimes have to pay €150 to €200 in tolls in order to work on the other side, must be over. I am counting on the support of the Chamber for this. I just had an interrupting debate with Mrs Postma. It is feasible, the coverage is there and let's settle it now for a year, so that next year can be settled definitively. Then the environment, Mr. Chairman. For a clean environment and a healthy living environment, it is important that polluters are addressed, that permits for the release and discharge of toxic substances where they can be tightened and that enforcement and monitoring have sufficient knowledge and capacity to intervene. However, the current situation is unsatisfactory. The situation around Tata Steel is getting more and more worrying. Yesterday another study by the Integral Cancer Center Netherlands, requested by EenVandaag, shows that in some zip code areas lung cancer is more than 50% higher than the national average. The studies of this kind are piling up. The Secretary of State must now take control, put together all completed and ongoing investigations and intervene. The situation is unacceptable and cannot be left to the local authority. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do so? Pfas is now in the bottom all over the Netherlands. Under the guise of nature development, our lakes are filled with dredging, with sludge, with granules. Authorisations issued by Rijkswaterstaat have not been vetted for years, which means that substances that have been banned are still discharged into our environment. That has to stop, so the question to the directors is what they are going to do to get Rijkswaterstaat and the ILT to give priority to this. Do they also have the capacity to deal with this as quickly as possible? Mr. Chairman. The time has passed for industry to have all the time and space to produce cleaner products or to come up with solutions on its own initiative. Because business fails over and over again. After years of resistance from companies and from various parties here in the Chamber, deposit money finally comes on small plastic bottles. The Secretary of State is laughing. That's right. But it could be sooner. We've had to encourage her many times, but we did it. The same is necessary when it comes to cans; I think the Secretary of State knows that too. We see that the circular economy still has a long way to go. Non-recyclable plastic is supposedly used usefully, but ends up in garbage dumps in Turkey. Recyclable plastic is in large white bags in the middle of nature waiting for a customer, but it is not reduced because new plastic is cheaper. The mountains with artificial turf fields I'm going to finish this way, we all know the chairman. The question to the Secretary of State is what steps are being taken to achieve a good recycling system, so that we will indeed use less and waste less. Does this include stricter standards for producers? Because a system in which business gets all the space, while we confront households with ever more demands for separating and offering attack, doesn't work for the SP. I would like to leave it at that in the first term, Mr President. I see an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u184	Yeah, me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u185	That is an interesting speech by Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u187	Of course, we share that for a very large part. We're hanging out. Mr Laçin said that polluters must be dealt with. He was talking about big pollutants and Tata Steel. We have always drawn together, but I have a question about small polluters, because I have not heard Mr Laçin. I will talk about balloons later in my speech. It is very strange: if I buy a bag of balloons and throw them on the ground, it is punishable by criminal law, as Mr Laçin knows, but if I buy and store those balloons, which bring them into nature, the damage is much greater, but that is not punishable. Does Mr Laçin agree with me that you should do so in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u188	I can be brief about that. Balloons are pollution. We shouldn't let it go as far as we can. I don't think there's ever an urgent reason to leave balloons on. So let's not do that. I do not know whether we should ban this by law, but let us actually tackle pollution. Let us deal with this pollution in such a way that there are nature-friendly alternatives to the release of balloons. I don't think there are any now or hardly any. So let's not do it right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u189	I think that's a valuable answer. Now the cabinet says that the municipalities have to figure it out, but if you leave a balloon in the municipality of A, it can end up in a completely different place, also in the sea. I am therefore considering tabling a motion later or tomorrow. I shall cut that short with Mr Laçin in advance. Maybe we can do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u190	Let's talk about that. I would like to respond very briefly to the municipal aspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u191	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u192	I very much agree with that municipal aspect. We have the same discussion, for example, about the fireplace. If you leave it to congregations, you get random. Let us keep control of pollution, both by large polluters and by small polluters, primarily nationally, and let us see what we can do about it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u193	Thank you, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-18-tweedekamer-4.u194	I suggest we suspend until 1:35 p.m. Then let's move on. I'm suspending the meeting for half an hour.
