ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u1	The subject is now the joint examination of legislative proposals 35438, Amendment of the Budget States of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate for the year 2020 and 35451, Amendment of the Budget States of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate for the year 2020. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy to the First Chamber. I had already welcomed the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group, for legislative proposal 35438.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We are on the verge of a massive economic recession, unfortunately. Where we talked in March and April about exponential growth of corona infections, we are currently seeing exponential growth in bankruptcies in the Netherlands. The corona crisis and the government measures that followed, mainly persisting in the one-and-a-half-metre society, are detrimental to many industries and they are destroying many companies. Accepting tens of billions of aid packages to alleviate the pain of the disastrous economic effects of this policy is a good thing, but the Forum for Democracy is going to support this package anyway, and I will give it away for the sake of our SMEs, our entrepreneurs and the jobs of millions of Dutch people. On behalf of my group, however, I would like to highlight an important aspect of the implementation which I would like to discuss with the ministers present. It concerns the implementation of the NOW scheme in conjunction with bankruptcies. My group has already asked several questions about this. Let me get this straight. During the legislative consultation of 18 May in the Lower House, MP Van Haga asked whether it is correct that NOW funds are paid after a company has been declared bankrupt and if so, how much. The Minister, then for Economic Affairs, replied that he did not think it very likely that aid would actually be paid into bankrupt farms. There was no answer to the questions as to whether this occurs and, if so, how often. In the Second Chamber, colleagues Van Haga and Baudet tabled a motion asking the government to carry out a check on whether the company in question is now bankrupt before the time of issuing the NOW regulation. That motion was rejected. In the First Chamber, my group has now asked whether, and if so, how often this occurs. And what does it turn out to be? In total, the UWV has paid 6 million to now bankrupt companies. However, it is still unclear how much of this took place before that bankruptcy was declared and how much was paid after bankruptcy. The first is annoying, but my group does not find that so exciting. Unfortunately, even with the help of the NOW scheme, a company still goes bankrupt at this time. With the second case, payment to a company which has already been declared bankrupt, my group has a little more difficulty, because we do not believe that NOW funds are intended for this purpose. Payout should be suspended immediately in the event of bankruptcy; that is our opinion. Checking this is easy, namely by checking the payment list at the bankruptcy register before paying the NOW advances. The bankruptcy decisions are published daily on fixed days. That is why I have a number of questions for the Minister. I would like to leave it in the middle of which minister; I think it is from Social Affairs and Employment. One. How often is NOW money, and how much, paid by the UWV to companies after those companies have been declared bankrupt? So how much of that $6 million was paid after bankruptcy? Two. Does the Minister agree with us that this is undesirable and preventable? The third question. Have measures been taken to prevent this in future with the remainder of the payments, NOW 2.0? Otherwise, can the Minister undertake to take these measures before the next advance payments are made? And then the last question. After they have been declared bankrupt, is a company actually still entitled to the payment of those NOW funds? We believe that this is now unclear and not formally regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van der Linden. I now give the floor to Mr Frentrop, also on behalf of the Forum for Democracy Group, for legislative proposal 35451.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u5	Mr. Chairman. The State granted a loan of 40 million to Royal IHC. This support has nothing to do with the corona crisis. The company has been in trouble for other reasons. Mr. Chairman. Government support to individual companies has a long and not always happy history. From the RSV-debacle, the Ministry at the time only learned EZ, without Climate, that you should not support companies without a future perspective. From the financial crisis of 2008, the Ministry of Finance has learned that it is not wise to appoint Commissioners on behalf of the State. This was later confirmed by the General Court. This second lesson seems to be forgotten, however, because the State has stipulated the right to nominate a Commissioner at IHC. Mr Menno Snel has already been appointed Commissioner on behalf of the State. Why? Mr Snel is well known to us, but we have never suspected any knowledge of dredging ships from him. We asked the Minister and in his reply he wrote that the purpose of the nomination was "to ensure that members are appointed to the Supervisory Board who, through their knowledge, experience, standards and values, can fulfil their role in a way that is recognizable to the State." English speakers call such an answer "stead manure" and we at the Forum of Democracy call it "free of content." In such an answer we smell trouble and in the background we hear the lane carousel turning. So we are asking for it, all the more so because Mr Jaap Huijskes has long been in charge of the sitting board of the Commissioner. This chairman cannot be unknown to the minister, because in addition to IHC he is also chairman of Energy Management Netherlands. This company is 100% owned by the State and carries out part of the policy of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate. We can assume, however, that Mr Huijskes, as Commissioner, will perform his role in a way that is recognizable to the State, and there is no reason why Mr Snel will soon come as additional Commissioner at IHC to give effect to his role in a way that is recognizable to the State. That's double-up. Apparently, the Minister also realized this, because in the further reply he gave another reason for the appointment of Mr Snel: "The nomination is also aimed at safeguarding these interests during the period during which the State still has financial involvement with Royal IHC in the context of the transaction." It can't be. In fact, you can't do that. As Commissioner, Mr Snel cannot safeguard the interests of the State at IHC. To explain this, I quote what the Minister of Finance wrote twenty years ago to the House of Representatives: "A commissioner is obliged by law to serve the company's interests. This can cause problems for a government commissioner, because it seems that the government influences the company's policy, while it does not." Minister Zalm wrote that in the year 2000. The General Court therefore devised a better alternative in 2014: a public trust if there is substantial State aid. Such a staff member can supervise without encountering the limitations of a Commissioner. This is now also the case with the KLM. At IHC, however, the Minister has proposed a Commissioner on behalf of the State and that creates uncertainty. The Minister wrote to us that this Commissioner is not a government commissioner representing the State. But IHC sees that differently, because IHC says he's a commissioner on behalf of the state. That's what IHC says abroad. I'll read from a press release by IHC: "Menno Snel, the former Secretary of State for Finance, will take a seat on behalf of the state." We don't assume malice. It may simply be a mistake that the Minister has proposed a Commissioner on behalf of the State, but let us correct that mistake. We suggest to the Minister that he should no longer be regarded as a Commissioner on behalf of the State, and that he should now be regarded as a Commissioner. Is the Minister prepared to consider this? For the rest, we support the decision to grant short-term aid to IHC from the point of view of employment and to limit a loss on export credit financing. However, we expect maximum care with regard to governance when supporting individual companies, because conflicts of interest are always in the lurch of such transactions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. Mrs Gerkens has the floor on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin by congratulating the cabinet, because it has managed so quickly and at a rapid rate to put in place arrangements to provide some support in the suddenly so uncertain world of the entrepreneur. I think it is also good to consider the fact that we can do so in our country because we are so rich. That is important, because the virus is difficult to control in countries where people have no choice to stay home, because not working for them also means death. I would also like to congratulate the many entrepreneurs I saw. In addition, over the past few weeks, I also saw that they hadn't sat down in their suits. In my city, for example, I saw catering owners taking over their tent and offering menus to deliver at home and I saw shops offering creative personal shopping or building websites to sell their clothes. Work has also been done to make the economy one and a half meters possible. But we also know that there have been heavy blows. Even if we don't know what the future will bring, there will or won't be a second wave, change the consumer pattern of people, help the holidays close to home to mitigate the blows? We are sure that certain companies will not survive. Sometimes that is right and the company had too little viability or the entrepreneur failed to build a buffer for these kinds of moments. But on the other hand, many young companies have also been affected by this fate. They did not have time to build a buffer and saw recently established companies go down. Mr. Chairman. The arrangements we are discussing here today have actually been overtaken by time, but we would also like to take the opportunity to look to the future. The first question I would like to put concerns the vulnerability and dependence of the manufacturing industry located in other countries. In the Lower House the Minister gave some cautious answers to the question whether we should not have them ourselves. He referred to the fact that Europe could also be a 'house'. We can discuss this for a long time or a short time, but my group wonders whether thinking about it is a little further. Boosting that manufacturing industry in your own home can also mean something to the question of which sectors you want to support extra or which sectors you want to pay attention to. The minister says he's in favour of producing everything in his own home. That may also go a little far: producing everything in your own home. But with that remark, the mind must not stop. In which directions is thought? And more importantly, what steps are being taken now? This is not so much about the manufacturing industry as it is. That must not be an end in itself. It is precisely the entire production chain that is at stake and the risks we face when certain imports are stopped, for example in connection with a pandemic. My group is thinking of medical devices and medicines, but also of raw materials. I ask this because we all know that this will not be the last pandemic. It will therefore be good if we learn the lessons now. Another lesson is to rely on the SBI codes. We have noticed that this has its limitations. Let me give you an example. A company that deals with the repatriation of sick people from abroad has an SBI-code health care. Logically, you would think that health care at this time, in the corona crisis, has no problem. But the whole traveling world was still, and so was this company. The company would therefore initially not have been covered by the aid. It is understandable that things go wrong in rapidly rigged generic measures, and Mr Kox referred to them in the debate before, but after the first protests, of course, we were able to fix quite a few things. There have also been objections. At the same time, it indicates that those SBI codes are rather limited. What is the situation with regard to the assessment of the need for these codes? The crisis also brings new opportunities, especially on the sustainability agenda. The establishment of conditions for aid may include the setting of conditions for sustainability. The cabinet says: yes, sustainability is important, but let's first see that the companies survive and then we'll talk about sustainability later, of course, all within the climate agreements that exist. The Minister indicated in the Lower House that financial injections can go hand in hand with investments that help the Climate Agreement. My group would like to know how this is dealt with in the talks that the Minister is holding with the companies involved. Can the Minister give us a little insight into that? He indicates that there is a tension between companies, so that jobs are preserved, and companies green up. One is a short-term interest and the other a long-term interest. But that long-term is getting closer and time is running out. I think it is clear that we should not support companies that are not so close to environmental regulation. Mr. Chairman. The world stopped for a few months. After the first awkward days we suddenly heard the birds whistling in our garden. We talked to neighbors we didn't know yet and enjoyed an evening walk. We saw it all over the world. Venice was once again of the Venetians, Lisbon of the Lisbonians and Amsterdam of the Amsterdammers. This has made the downside of mass tourism even more painful. This also means something for the development of tourism policy. Of course, this policy lies partly in the places that it concerns, but the cabinet certainly plays a major role in this. I'm just referring to the Holland promotion we often do. Does the Secretary of State recognize her role in this? That's another Secretary of State, indeed. But I do support this, through you now. Does the Minister recognize the role of the cabinet in this? How does he intend to implement this? Tourism is, of course, an important source of income, but there is, of course, something to steer on which tourists are encouraged to come. I see my time is almost over. Mr. Chairman. When the flame broke, the cabinet had all the cars pulled out to put out the fire. This has ensured that the foundations of our economy are still standing. But let's rebuild the house wisely, durable, liveable and sturdy enough to withstand the next fire. I would like to hear from the rulers how they intend to achieve this. I can be brief about the support to IHC. The SP is certainly not against supporting companies to get them out of the crisis, but it has to face up to something: control so that we can steer key issues even after the crisis and test them against, for example, our sustainability objectives and social policy and remuneration policies. This can be done by acquiring shares or nationalisation. That is our measuring bar, and it did not pass this proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u8	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Crone of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to discuss these support packages with the rulers. Congratulations to the Minister for Social Affairs for the pension agreement, to the entire cabinet of course. If it wasn't, people would have to work longer and there wouldn't be jobs for young people. That's how everything has to do with everything. Anyway, we'll come back to that in a debate. Thank you for the detailed written answers to the questions. We don't have much left to ask about that. I join others, too. I commend the cabinet for the bazooka-like approach, let me put it this way so far. But there's still something to talk about. On the way here, I heard that Suit Supply will receive a state guarantee of 40 million. That was on the way here at RTL 4, six or four hours ago. I'll come back to that later. Because there will still be a lot of companies in line, not necessarily for the bazooka measures... Yeah, that's the catch guy. I'd take it off, Mr. Vendrik, because this gentleman is getting 40 million now. But he also owns his own private plane. All that costs money. As a government, we have to contribute a little. It's employment in China. That's all good for the jobs here. Sorry, Chairman. It is now ten days since the Minister sent a balancing framework for aid to private companies. I would like to thank the Minister for that balancing framework. That provides a basis, so that the Second and First Chambers can also check whether they comply with it. But Economic Affairs' balancing framework is so general that it's okay. So the proof of the pudding is in the eating. It is only in the specific measures that we can see, of course, whether our own assessment framework is being properly applied. I have already asked for some of these things in the written rounds, both for your package and for KLM's, and then I am rather disappointed that the State still grants loans or guarantees relatively easily, but does not demand back control, requires little greening and also refuses to take shares. I'll get back to you on that. Let there now be a beautiful letter from the General Court last week, a letter of advice, which gives its own review elements; sixteen points of review for support to companies. And they look a lot like things I happen to want to bring in myself, so I'm not going to repeat them now. I'll add a few more. The cabinet looks back to the seventies, the RSV mentioned earlier by Mr Frentrop. The General Court gives very good review points which are much more concrete than those of the Cabinet. I will come back to that later, but I would like to ask the Cabinet to take those sixteen lessons alongside its own balancing framework. Those sixteen lessons, of course, start with: what is the public interest? What is the public interest in supporting IHC? Not corona, because Mr Frentrop said it: IHC is being helped because of many other problems, which were already there a long time ago. The public interest at KLM, that is what we are discussing with the Minister tomorrow; that is a sign. But what is the public interest in Suitsupply compared to any other garment manufacturer? That's a question I'm really curious about. I can also apply those criteria of the Court of Auditors to IHC, partly in line with what Frentrop said. It has nothing to do with corona; okay, but what's the public interest? Two: a Commissioner is the worst variant of influence, as the Court of Auditors wrote to both chambers last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u10	Do you need to take your phone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u11	No, no, I turned it off twice. But maybe they'll listen to you now and they won't call me anymore, Mr. Chairman. So the Commissioner must, as Frentrop said, stick to the company's interests. So last week the Court of Auditors says: "Don't do that anymore." And finally, my question about the IHC package: why don't we go with it in shares? Because I assume that it has become a viable business, partly because of our support, and if there is profit, then we can also occasionally share in it. I believe that is what Mrs Gerkens was referring to. So are you prepared to tighten up the balancing frameworks in line with what the Court of Auditors wants and proposes? And then it starts with the public interest. I would add a number of points to their 16 balancing points, partly in connection with the Court of Auditors. Are you seriously making a business case, in which you also deal with different scenarios than just the scenario that is presented to us? The scenario "it could also be worse," which the Court gives examples of, but also climate problems and green recovery? Everyone knows we're gonna have to make that shot sometime. I have asked the Cabinet in all written documents, for a long time, for every aid measure: submit scenarios. And then you don't even have to choose the scenario of green recovery, but the market does; the market already opts for scenarios. Banks and insurers are already asking for a high risk premium on interest for companies that want bonds in the fossil industry; that is even called "brown loans." Companies that make green investments get lower interest rates. Is that what our government does? That seems to me at least necessary if the market is to do so, and because of the public interest. A second criterion I would like to add is: do you agree with Brussels on internationally exhibited sectors? Of course, we are often competing with foreign competitors in the chemical and other sectors, and I can well imagine that we are leading the rat race down; or are we doing the opposite? Germany makes much more investments for sustainability, as I understand from the media, than the Netherlands. So then we run the wrong rat races, then we encourage companies to grow in an old way and we compete the Germans away at that point. And that Green Deal is precisely about making the playing field level in Europe. Then there's the risk capital issue. In your assessment framework, you say that this should be the last to be dealt with, because the market must do the job. But why do we get the downside when things go bad, and don't we get the upside when profits are made? Suitsupply is now guaranteed 40 million. It puts in 20 million extra share capital itself. The company itself says: things aren't so bad at all; we haven't had to write anything off on the stocks of all those suits, because they will be back on the market next year and the rest of the year. So apparently there is an upside at Suitsupply - by the way a handy entrepreneur, I give it to him wholeheartedly. But there are so many clothing companies, not just my father's, that went down 40 years ago, all of which want to say: why Suitsupply did, and we didn't? Why not the Hema, who has a public interest in the inner centres of the smaller cities, and why Suitsupply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u12	I just heard Mr Crone say: why do we link the sustainability of our chemical industry, which has to do things, with these emergency aid packages, so that they can compete better with other countries? But that's totally out of line with reality, isn't it? This sustainability and the absurd demands that we impose on it are making our competitive position very much worse. The fact that in Germany it costs an enormous amount of money to do so, and that the burden on citizens and businesses is therefore hugely increasing, does it not, in fact, make it less competitive?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u13	We can argue about the level of environmental requirements. You have a different position in that than I do. I want to go further than you. But if these are the environmental requirements that we have even coordinated at European level, and Germany and other countries that maintain environmental requirements, then we should not say to KLM and others: 'We are going to put those environmental requirements aside. You may grow old-fashioned." Because then we will undermine the level playing field in the environmental field. Then you get a race down, as we are the first to lower the Vpb again in Holland. I don't want to. It is public interest to apply the same environmental standards as abroad, or better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u14	Mr Van der Linden, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u15	That race to the bottom, as you call it, is just international competition, isn't it? You are now referring to Germany, as a country that would do so. But the only way to do that is if the whole world, including China, is in on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u16	Most of our exports are in-European, not China, and vice versa. So 80% of our economy is in Europe. Frans Timmermans now organises an equal alignment, a level playing field, in the green recovery. I'm glad that for that reason, for that level playing field, at least you're in favour. The point is that we have a level playing field. But now the Netherlands is lagging behind. First, it brings down the Vpb and suspends environmental standards. It announces a CO levy, but does not introduce it. We must, of course, take the lead, in Germany and the rest of Europe, in order to have a broader CO levy. The chemical industry also says yes, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u17	Finally, Mr Van der Linden.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u18	It is clear that we are totally different on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u19	Mr Crone, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u20	I made another attempt to agree with you on the level playing field, at any level. Mr. Chairman. Then it's about risk capital or no risk capital. If a company has a good perspective, you give a guarantee. Then there is also a chance of winning. Then I also think we should be able to share in the upside. It is common for external financing to carry out a risk test. If we give a loan, what level is the interest or guarantee at, for example, Suitsupply? I would like external agencies to assess the risk and the interest involved. In the market in London, or where they're all sitting, that's common. Sometimes, as a government, we have to say: the interest rate premium is 10% or 20%. 'Cause then you'll share in the risk again. That's also a form if you don't want stock. Finally, Mr President, two criteria which I would like to add, in line with what I have just said: green employment, preservation, adaptation, accelerated labour market adjustments for workers towards the green industry. Minister of Social Affairs: I'll have some extra money for that. This, an accelerated conversion of jobs from grey to green, is a public interest. The same applies to the standards of social policy and taxation. The Court of Auditors does not say that, nor does the Cabinet. Companies that do not comply with social policy and taxation, so companies that do avoid tax should not receive support. Mr President, I will conclude. Suitsupply is concrete. We'll discuss KLM tomorrow. I've been asking questions about IHC. I would like to ask the Cabinet to supplement the broad balancing framework we have just received. To the sixteen points of the Court of Auditors and the six points added by me. Maybe we can get a letter from you in August and talk about it in September. Because I don't expect you to get rid of state aid to companies already. I would therefore prefer that we discuss the criteria with you in advance, preferably in September. I invite you to enter into this debate with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr Crone. Finally, Mr Otten has the floor on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u22	Mr. Chairman. Today we are dealing with the emergency packages of jobs and economy and the bridging facility of around 400 million to shipbuilder IHC. We also just heard about a facility for Suitsupply; I'll get back to you in a moment. Mr. Chairman. Our group has studied this matter extensively and has a number of questions to Minister Wiebes on the extension of aid to individual companies, including IHC. First of all, IHC. The cause of the financial problems of IHC is not related to the coronavirus. We are dealing with a company that has been loss-making for years and has, above all, come into serious financial difficulties due to strong setbacks in the construction of dredging vessels for the Belgian company DEME. These problems are completely unrelated to corona. The rescue operation of IHC is mainly presented by Minister Wiebes as a damage control action to reduce the damage caused to IHC by many hundreds of millions for government export credit insurance. There are a number of questions to the Minister about this. Can the Minister indicate how the government could have taken so much risk with export credit insurance for IHC, especially now that this exposure to the government is apparently the reason for doing this rescue operation at all? Second question. Why is the rescue of IHC not entirely left to the private sector? A number of private parties, which also have an interest in it, including DEME, are the recipient of the dredging vessels concerned. In 2004, IHC was taken over for 8 million euros by a number of private parties, making hundreds of millions in a few years. And even now, there was enough interest from the private sector. Third question. Is the rescue operation of IHC related to the Ministry of Defence's order for new submarines, where IHC is one of the candidates? Has there been any consultation with the Secretary of Defense about this rescue operation? Fourth question. At what time does the Minister intend to recoup the investment in IHC or, if the money is not repaid, how long will government intervention continue? What is the investment horizon? Mr. Chairman. The investment in IHC is reminiscent of the support to the RSV group in need in the last century, with former Secretary of State Menno Snel as a modern Joseph Molkenboer who has to keep an eye out for the government on the hundreds of millions of taxes invested. It seems that during the previous speaker's speech, we received the news that a guarantee of 40 million has now been given to Suitsupply that we are dealing here with a premature version of the Wiebesfonds. The corona crisis is used as an argument to quickly introduce the Wiebe Fund via the back door and invest in various companies, such as IHC, but also SMART Photonics, which received 20 million euros of public money. That investment is also completely independent of the corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. We should not use the corona crisis to play money on all kinds of companies, invest in all kinds of companies that are completely independent of the corona crisis and, under the guise of emergency packages, are going to make some investments. With the investment in Suitsupply that just came to my attention, the thumbs in our group go down. That company has been heavily funded for many years. Many parties know that it is a difficult sector. It's a company that's structurally affected by corona. If I see it so quickly, the deal is also very badly structured, with a government guarantee on bank loans, not even onside. And then we also finance the NPM, in the hands of the Fentener family of Vlissingen, about the richest family in the Netherlands, and Fokke de Jong, who with his private jet visits exotic places at the expense of the shareholders. Yeah, this isn't for that, Mr. Chairman. In this respect, we support Mr Crone's approach. Then there's another point. Last Tuesday, almost a week ago, our group put a number of simple written questions to Minister Wiebes about the involvement by the Ministry of Economic Affairs of business bank Lazard as an advisor to the State in various individual rescue operations. Just before the beginning of this debate, the First Chamber receives notice from Minister Wiebes that answers to these written questions are so complex that the answer can only be given after the recess. That's unacceptable to us. We're talking emergency legislation here. Many billions are spent on afternoons by the Cabinet and the Minister, and we in the First Chamber are always doing everything we can to ensure that this emergency legislation passes through this Chamber as quickly as possible. It is not our intention, then, that the Minister should not be able to answer our simple questions within a reasonable period of time. That is why I am once again asking these questions to the Minister and I expect concrete answers from the Minister before the end of this debate. If he is unable to answer these simple questions, then we are very concerned about whether Minister Wiebes is in control of the matter in his ministry in these harsh economic times. That is why I repeat the questions. Why was Lazard elected as advisor now in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Financial System, also called the De Wit Committee, after its chairman, in the investigation into the nationalisation of ABN AMRO during the credit crisis that Lazard, in fact, made serious mistakes during the advice on the valuation of ABN AMRO, disregarding an important consortium agreement whereby the Dutch State paid more than EUR 2.3 billion too much for ABN AMRO? I am not saying that, but these harsh conclusions are set out in the final report of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, on pages 159 and beyond, for the lover. Why has the Ministry once again chosen to involve Lazard in the assessment of individual cases of state aid now that the Lazard track record in the past has shown that this has not happened adequately, resulting in significant damage to the Dutch taxpayer? In fact, the investment in ABN AMRO will probably never be fully recouped because there is simply too much paid in the crisis. We await the Minister's answers to these questions. We also look forward with interest to the answer and we would like to discuss this with the Minister in the second term. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u23	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Finally, Mr Vendrik has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u24	President, thank you very much, and I apologize for not having signed up for this debate in good time. Something went wrong, but it's my fault. I'm sorry about that. Mr President, very briefly. On behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I would like to make a few comments on both supplementary budget proposals from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The corona crisis has struck deep wounds in our economy, and for the GroenLinks group too, it is quite natural that the government should act here and try to mitigate the consequences to the best of its ability. As we know and see every day, that's permanent maintenance. That is, in fact, first and foremost international. People elsewhere, for example in emerging countries such as Africa and Asia, are now dying not from the virus but from hunger due to massive outbursts of economic activities worldwide with major damage there. As far as we are concerned, it would have been very logical if the cabinet had already decided, as the International Affairs Advisory Council has recently proposed, to allocate an additional 1 billion to international emergency aid. But the Foreign Minister recently made it clear in the First Chamber that this is part of the normal budgetary process. Mr. Chairman. That is at least amazing, because we are living in times when there is no normal budgetary process anywhere to be seen. Let me make this clear, because I hope that I am also sitting here with 'the Minister for International Economic Affairs'. If it is not a form of humanity and solidarity, then it is at least understood self-interest. We have a job to do in Europe, but also internationally. The mess there, which is bigger than here, also has economic repercussions for the Netherlands and the companies here. I will also raise this in the debate with the Minister of Finance tomorrow. Mr. Chairman. When we talk about Suitsupply, for example, it is those international value chains in the textile industry where the business has exploded at once. We have stopped buying and the companies have stopped buying, and the account is placed completely there. In India, Bangladesh and other countries in Asia, millions of textile workers, without welfare state and without income, are now on the streets without work. Mr. Chairman. All efforts of 30 years pulling and pushing on so-called international corporate social responsibility have disappeared at once like snow in front of the sun. I understand from the Minister for Economic Affairs that the cabinet is in the process of catching up on the lessons learned from this crisis and showing the first results after the summer, for example in the Millions Note. I urge the cabinet, through this minister, to take this lesson very seriously. Globalisation's a party until it's tough. Then the bill is hard on the people at the end of the value chain. That's usually elsewhere. We do not have a cabinet in front of us that has had the courage, among the billions rightly spent on support for the Dutch economy, to make 1 billion available to people and businesses for those who are now hungry. That's amazing. Mr. Chairman. In the second supplementary budget bill, the Minister of EZK proposes an extension of the existing guarantee schemes. That has the support of my group. The Minister asks, and we have asked questions about this, that he monitors its implementation. My question is whether he can be more precise here. The background to this question is as follows. For years, the Minister has been aware that care, especially in SMEs, has good access to finance. It turns out more than once, as the past learns, that it is difficult to really get a good view of it. This gap is often filled by contradictory sounds and anecdotes. On the one hand, these weird banks, we're not getting in. On the other hand, you hear: those entrepreneurs, where are they? You can hear everything that's in there, too. I suspect that this is not much different now, but the importance of a good answer is now even more urgent than for the corona crisis. In that context, my eye fell on the latest reporting from the banks. This gives an insight into the credit and the guarantees that go with it. This is particularly true of the KKC scheme, which is relatively news. Their use is extremely modest. That could mean that this is the good explanation, that it is not as bad economically as we are inclined to think. Then it's okay. But perhaps there is also room for the idea that this old complaint of inaccessibility to finance is more true than we could have suspected. Of course, it has to be remembered that financiers are not charitas companies, have a duty of care and have their files in order, even in the case of a default, to use the guarantee. I assume that the Minister and the Cabinet in particular will keep their finger on the pulse, in order to get a clear view and to maintain the effectiveness and reach of the guarantee facilities. How does the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u25	Mr. Vendrik, would you like to finish? Because your time is really over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u26	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. One final point, and then I'm gonna leave the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u27	No, I'm really asking you to finish. You'd have signed up for tomorrow, but not for today, I'll find out now. The program is getting messed up, so I really want to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u28	Mr. Chairman. I agree with what Mr Crone said. Finally, I have one question about culture. Last week, the Minister of OCW announced that, in the light of the arrangements that this Minister also justifies in the supplementary budgets, it would be necessary to review whether those arrangements actually work for the culture and the creative sector. In my group's view, this is not the case. I would ask the Minister to focus on this debate. What can we expect from the cabinet in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u29	Mr Vendrik makes an emotional speech about an extra 1 billion in development aid, but everyone understands him too, because Mr Vendrik has been the director of the Court of Auditors, so he needs to be able to count on the fact that you can only spend a euro once. You are very emotional about what is happening in India at the beginning of the chain, where people can no longer drop off their stuff. But that euro can only be spent once. You say that those people there go to bed hungry and have no social safety net...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u30	So your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u31	The question is: if you are going to spend EUR 1 billion less on renewable energy and then just give it to these people... Would you mind doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u32	Mr. Vendrik, I'd like a quick answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u33	The biggest victims of unmanaged climate change that is the scenario the PVV has been hammering on for years; let's make the mess as big as possible.. are again the same people. So trading that trade-off, more money for poverty reduction now in the corona crisis for less money for climate change, is the most unwise trade I've heard in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vendrik. Finally, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u35	But what good is a solar panel if you have an empty stomach? Isn't everyone going to choose a set table instead of a solar cell panel?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u36	Then I really invite Mrs Faber to come and see how important the importance of renewable energy is for my employer, especially for those people. How cheap it is for them to get access to renewable energy so that they can develop, so that they can follow education, so that their children get it better and so that the economy there will flourish. They will then become resilient to the damage they suffer today because we have organised globalisation in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u37	Thank you. No, Mrs. Faber, I'm really gonna close up right now, because we're behind. I'm sorry. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. Then I'll suspend the sitting for 15 minutes until 3:43 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u38	I see the Minister of Social Affairs has already arrived. Maybe he can start later. The subject is now the continuation of the joint discussion of 35438, Second incidental supplementary budget on Emergency Jobs and Economy package, and 35451, Third incidental supplementary budget on Emergency Jobs and Economy package and IHC bridging facility. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two questions have been put to me in this debate. I'll answer that before the Minister of Economic Affairs comes in. The first question was from Mr Van der Linden, whom I do not see at the moment, when he specifically asked for my presence. That is why I shall begin with the other question, that of Mr Crone, on the transition from grey to green jobs. That's quite a complicated question, I say in all honesty. Look, in general terms, with lifelong development policies, with the SLIM scheme, with the STEP scheme, with all these instruments, we are engaged in helping people in sectors where employment is shrinking and where jobs are disappearing, with retraining to sectors where employment is growing. These are usually sectors where sustainability plays an important role. Think of isolation techniques, think of all the investments in the hard economy that focus on climate and sustainability. We have generic instruments, such as the STEP and SLIM schemes, but we also have the R&D funds. In these funds we see a slow movement towards intersectoral mobility. If there is a sector that is shrinking, the R&D funds are used to train people for work in another sector. Actually, that hasn't really gotten off the ground for the last two years. A number of years ago, the graphic media sector was a precursor in this field and now we see it becoming more and more common. So that's the second layer. The third layer is that of the very specific regulations, such as those for the Hemwegcentrale. Together with the FNV and the UWV, we have rigged an arrangement there.The Westhavenarrangement is aimed at people who have lost their jobs by closing the Hemwegcentrale, but also in the coaloreport in the Amsterdam harbour. We want to help these people from job to job. This has been done in cooperation between the union, the UWV and the government. So on three layers we try to achieve a labour market effect, from generic to specific and from grey to green.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u40	I welcome both answers. We are, of course, talking here about state aid schemes for incidental cases. I would have liked to call upon the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for Social Affairs, speaking with one voice, to say, in the case of the state aid packages, whether it be the KLM or something else, that I should have liked to give this, but I would have liked to give a little more so that you could take the workers, à la Hemweg. Open the hatch! I agree with you that we should preferably have generic instruments, that we should do it gradually, fit into the normal investment cycle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u41	In itself, that is the policy. When it comes to specific interventions, for example at KLM, Minister Hoekstra has indicated that sustainability requirements are part of the deal. That's where the demands are. For the rest, of course, we have opted for generic policies, because we do not really want to distinguish between sustainability policies between companies that do and companies that do not receive support. The frontier you have to meet, that frontier, we want to increase generically for all companies, so that they become more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u42	Shall we stretch the time any further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u43	I had one specific long question: Mr Van der Linden has also been asked about subsidies in the NOW to bankrupt companies. Previously, the written replies made it clear that some EUR 6 million of NOW subsidies have been paid to companies which have since gone bankrupt. It is not clear how much of this has been paid out to companies already in bankruptcy at the time when these funds have been paid out. I'll explain why that is. In principle, no money is paid to companies already insolvent or in a state of suspension. Of course, the granting of NOW subsidies to bankrupt companies is considered undesirable. These companies are also not entitled to a subsidy under the NOW if they are in bankruptcy. That is the legal question put by Mr Van der Linden. The process surrounding the payment of the NOW has been arranged in such a way that the UWV always checks prior to payment whether there has been a declaration in the Tax Administration's policy administration that there is a suspension or bankruptcy. So that standard check is in there. It remains possible that there is a short delay between the policy administration and the moment of check-up. Since it concerns 130,000 companies currently receiving the NOW grant, there may be a difference between these two moments, which means that they slip through the loopholes, let me just say. As a result, a subsidy can be granted to an employer who is not at the heart of the payment system. That is also the explanation for the 6 million I have sent you in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u44	Thank you for these answers and also for confirming that it is undesirable. But here's a piece of the crux. It's checked with the Tax Administration's policy administration, but my call was simply to check this through the bankruptcy register. Every week statements are made on Tuesdays and Wednesdays and are published. There's a whole list of companies that have been declared bankrupt by the judge. If you take that list before you pay it off, you can really stop it. I don't think that policy administration at the IRS is the right instrument. Is the Minister prepared to order that the bankruptcy lists be collected every week before payment is made? If you turn it against each other, it could possibly give a million euros.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u45	I understand your question, but that is not possible in the implementation. The tax administration processes this and that is where the UWV connects. Again, it concerns 130,000 companies, which receive such an advance every month, and there is a delay between the announcement of the bankruptcy and the moment it is included in the policy administration. Of course you want to keep that difference as small as possible and have the data as up-to-date as possible, but we are not going to open a separate registration, because then it has to be done manually. If you have to do it manually every month at 130,000 companies, it becomes impossible. We just can't live up to that. I'd love to, but we just can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u46	That, I think, is not ambitious enough. You don't have to go to the 130,000 companies. Something else has to be done. Every week, dozens to hundreds of companies are declared bankrupt. That's the list and that list needs to be checked with what's being paid out. That must be technically feasible, and if necessary, you'll let five or ten people do it. You might be able to save millions of dollars. Isn't that something to at least investigate, even if it's manual? Even then, the costs certainly outweigh the returns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u47	But at the core, this is what's happening. This list is knocked into the Tax Administration's policy administration and is checked along that route. You're turning it around now and you're saying don't do the policy administration with the Tax Office, but do it manually next to it. I'll say that's not efficient. 130,000 companies have to go through it, and we simply will not be able to do so in the short term. We would therefore like to continue to join this check through the Tax Administration. All companies which have been declared bankrupt or in custody are included. The only difference is that there may be a short delay between the moment of check and the moment of registration in that policy administration. There may be a few days' difference between that and that could be the explanation why some companies are slipping through the loopholes and still getting a payout that they're not actually entitled to because they're in bankruptcy or in suspension of payment. So it also has to do with the robustness of the scheme to implement it. It is of course huge what happened at the UWV in such a short time to pay out support to such a large number of companies. Ah, there's Minister Wiebes. So I can just stop talking. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u48	Thank you, Minister Koolmees. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u49	Mr. Chairman. I would just like to start with Mr Frentrop, who was concerned about the status of the Commissioners appointed to IHC. Just so we're clear, no one has been appointed by the state, no one has been nominated. The latter can always be done. So it's not a government commissioner either. It is someone who, like other Commissioners, has the task of serving the company's interests. It is true that we see in him someone who can put that perspective into that broad consideration in particular. In the Rhineland model it concerns all stakeholders and in this case the State is also a stakeholder. But it is not someone who should specifically argue for the interest of the State, but it is someone who takes it with him. For example, there is a Commissioner from banks, from the point of view of shareholders. But all these Commissioners, led by an independent chairman, should be in charge of the company's interests. That is why we have never talked about a government commissioner, nor have we ever said that it would be a Commissioner on behalf of the State. I know that it has been referred to in other expressions. I stand by my words. It is a Commissioner who, like the other Commissioners, has the role of serving the company's interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u50	So you confirm that Mr Snel is not a Commissioner on behalf of the State? IAC is putting it that way, but that is a mistake that we can correct here. The question remains, then, why did you agree that the State should be able to nominate a Commissioner?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u51	Because you want the interests of all stakeholders, with the interests of the company first, to be properly represented. That is why a Commissioner has been nominated from the banks, one from the shareholders' point of view. That simply means that you have a mixed company with all the perspectives at the table, that from those perspectives can serve the importance of the enterprise. Mr Snel is someone who is par excellence because of his background who can see that public interest, who can also apply it specifically and who has that financing experience and even banking financing experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u52	I'm gonna go over that a little bit more to make sure it's okay. The Supervisory Board of IAC now consists of an independent chairman, a Commissioner on behalf of the banks, a Commissioner on behalf of the works council and Mr Snel on behalf of no one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u53	Not on behalf of, nominated by and then appointed as Commissioner. But not one Commissioner on behalf of one or the other. And that's how it's supposed to be, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u54	I asked a similar question. The General Court of Auditors now recommends the exact same thing in lesson 16 last week: do not do a government commissioner, as you say it is in the interests of the company. The Court of Auditors advises: then do a trustee. It can monitor compliance with the aid conditions without encountering the limitation of a State Commissioner. For example, NLFI, NL Financial Instruments, was designated as a trustee at the banks. Perhaps you could reconsider that. I do not know if it is already too late, but if the Commissioner is not allowed to do it, who will supervise the public interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u55	If you guarantee the public interest, you must, of course, incorporate it into the terms of the support you provide. I had not yet received Mr Crone's contribution, so I have not yet answered this question, but it is clear. The General Court says: do not overestimate the role and institution of a government commissioner. That is precisely why we did not choose to do so. Then there is no need to change the framework either, because that was all the conviction on the part of the State. Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to Mrs Gerkens for the compliments I immediately pass on to the officials who have worked on this at night and also on weekends. There has been a fuzzy performance, but as far as I'm concerned that's entirely up to them. I also think that the compliments to entrepreneurs are extremely justified. Thank you, because those are also things that need to be said in a debate like this, and Mrs Gerkens has done so. I liked that very much. The dependence on the manufacturing industry and other countries, just as Mrs Gerkens says, does not mean that we are going to do everything ourselves. That's ridiculous, too. If all countries were to do so, our economy would collapse, because a significant part of our gross domestic product and prosperity depend on exports. So if other countries were to do what some are advocating with regard to the Netherlands, we would soon be screwed. But it is true that there can be all kinds of medical and critical raw materials that you will pay particular attention to. That doesn't mean you're going to make them all yourself, but it does mean you're going to think as a European Union, of: boys, how do we take care of this? There are certain medical resources that you want to ensure as a Union. If there's only one factory in the world that makes it, you want to think if you don't want to start a second factory on Union soil. Another option to secure the supply chain is dual sourcing. That is not free, by the way, because it means that you have to be capable of production everywhere and that you have production capacity at your disposal. There are costs involved, but sometimes it is worth more than those costs. Generally speaking, you want to make it less market-distorting and to continue to reap the benefits of international trade as much as possible. But indeed, the VWS Minister sees the need to think more closely about this with regard to some types of raw materials. He comes up with a plan of action to ensure security of supply in the wider medical domain. There's also a Lower House motion. We also ask for an ESC opinion on the manufacturing industry, which looks at this, among other things. That is indeed being considered. In the end, in many cases, the role of the government will be active and facilitating. But if there are things that really only a government can do, we will have to consider it from the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u56	I understand that economic policy can always play a role, but I would like to come back to what you say. We are a small country, so I understand that we cannot bring in all the manufacturing industries in the Netherlands. Of course, we must look at cooperation within Europe or on the European continent. Yesterday I watched another impressive series about the war between the Serbs and the Kosovars. So it can go wrong in Europe too, if we put everything in one place there. My question to the Minister is whether we are looking at multiple scenarios than just that of a pandemic. Would it not be a good idea to look at several places in Europe too, not to depend on one country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u57	I think it's bespoke anyway, because one substance is less easy to replace than the other. One is made in three places in the world and the other on one. One requires a short scaling-up time for own production and the other a long one. So it'll be customization anyway. I leave the wider medical field to my colleague in the cabinet. He comes up with a vision for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u58	We'll talk to them tomorrow, but it's not just the medical world that matters to me. It is also about all other raw materials. The construction also stood a bit quieter because there were no raw materials. Where are our dependencies on which our economy can score critically? In that broader context, I would like to ask the Minister not only to look at how we can do something in Europe if we do it in one country in Europe and that country gets into trouble, we have another problem, but to ensure that we have several fall-back options.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u59	I also think Fall-back options are a wise word. I will wait for the Economic and Social Committee's opinion, which will already be discussed. As a result, I come up with a response on how and where we want to do this. The more we want to do this in more areas, of course, we have lost more risks, but we are adding costs again. We need to realize that too. In the end, it's about public interest. Mrs. Gerkens is asking about the SBI codes. Two things are at the forefront here: first, the feasibility. In all honesty, customization is totally unthinkable in these numbers. We can't do that, so we're working with codes, and there's a lot of applications for that, too. However, it is possible that companies show that they are actually classified in the wrong code. That can be repaired, and it is done in many cases. That is one perspective, so the feasibility. The other perspective is that of course you want to stimulate where it is really necessary, because not everyone with 30% turnover loss suffered as part of corona. We have to be extremely prudent, because it sounds like a big pot in general, but it's just the taxpayer. In many cases, it is not even the taxpayer of today, but the taxpayer of later. Because it concerns the taxpayer and partly the taxpayer of later, we need to be very prudent, a little on the economic side. We are doing what is necessary and this seems to be a very large package, but we must nevertheless ensure that it does not happen where it is not necessary. At the same time, we must accept that we cannot do everything we intellectually might have wanted to do and that we cannot prevent everything we wanted to prevent. In statistics this is called the errors of the first species and the second species. We know we're making both of them. So we are wrongly doing so, but also wrongly not. That's what's in between, and we have to accept that. There's no alternative. Otherwise this is not feasible in this way, then things go wrong. We have also given this a more specific focus in the second emergency package, so that we can take better account of the size of the company, the size of the fixed burden, and we have also limited it to SMEs rather than to everyone. In that way we have tried to put on some focus, but very precisely it will never be and I will never be able to claim it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u60	I was just triggered by Mr Wiebes when he talked about the statistical error of rejecting or adopting the hypothesis by mistake. With IHC and certainly with the recent Suitsupply story this afternoon, I am getting the feeling that you are making a lot of mistakes and that you are wrongly supporting, while the market has to do its job. There was also involvement with the HEMA, I understand. Today, new investors have come forward again. Those are companies that have structural problems because they're misfinanced, inhabited by private equity parties et cetera or in the hands of very wealthy people who just try it as if it was a lottery; "we're gonna stop by Wiebes, maybe he'll buy it." How will you avoid being used for these games? 'Cause this is happening right now. That is my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u61	I come to Mr Otten's questions. I'm just saying as an appetizer, he's really getting it all mixed up right now. But I'll answer his questions later. Moreover, I am not known in the Empire as generous when it comes to subsidies and support. However, Mr Otten has had a different impression of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u62	I'll take a look at the time, Minister. How much longer do you think you'll need?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u63	Well, questions have been asked. I'll try to do it as soon as I can. For example, Mrs Gerkens has asked for sustainability. What role does this point play in the discussions with the companies? We need to make a good distinction. There's a regular package. That's not customization. We do what we have to do and then you don't have conversations with companies and you can't ask for anything back, because that would be impossible. That's not where the conversations are. In very special cases, so far, one in that framework, you do have conversations. There's more customization there. That's where you're gonna want to avoid that if you do an investment impulse, it's gonna be in things where you're gonna have great regrets in ten years' time, because you've suddenly set up a fossil icon. You don't want that. This is also extremely unwise for business-economic reasons. This is also unwise in the context of the Climate Agreement. But you also don't want to say as a rule "any company I meet to make sure the jobs are preserved, I ask for a wind farm to be set up," because that would only require more money and the liquidity statement would be entirely with the Empire. You don't want to. Premeditated: Every company, including companies that we grant any kind of support, must comply with the agreements in the Climate Agreement, point. That is a requirement that applies to everyone. Then mass tourism. There's a task force hospitality economy. In doing so, we are working, together with industry, with all public authorities and with knowledge institutions, on sustainable development of the sector. This also requires that the needs and burdens for each region are in balance. As has been said, some regions want to have more of the needs and others, in particular, want to have less of the burden. The Holland promotion is also aimed at this: an appropriate offer and a suitable tourist for every area. In concrete terms, this means that with the campaign "Here you must be" we are now focusing on unknown areas in the Netherlands where especially Dutch people will be able to stay quietly in the coming summer. As a regular cyclist through the Netherlands, I can assure Mrs Gerkens that there are a lot of such areas that do not appear in the guides, but are beautiful. I am very much in favour of this campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u64	I'll recognize that. My question to the Minister was as follows, given that the crisis brings with it all kinds of new opportunities. In my view, the policy he mentions is already standing policy because we saw that mass tourism poses problems. But there is now a harder call from the people to improve the quality of life in the areas where tourism is too busy. So we could also take this as an opportunity to give it another boost. Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u65	I do not think it makes any sense to assume that, now that tourism is disappointing, there is an important call to further curb tourism. I believe that it is indeed a policy of standing and important to spread tourism more widely. But at the moment, the department is getting a lot of calls for tourism to be restored at least where it has collapsed, and not the opposite. So I do not recognize the call by corona mentioned by Mrs Gerkens. I'll recognize her call in general. That is also what the regular policy is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u66	Mrs. Gerkens, any short questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u67	Otherwise, I can send that call to the Minister, because there are indeed residents who have now called for it. Of course, there is now a tension between the sector, which very much wants a turnover to be turned there, and people who have now finally seen how nice their city can be. That's why I'm asking that question. I would therefore ask the Minister to look at this again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u68	That tension field is here. That is what the regular policy is aimed at. I don't think the corona crisis is gonna give us a weapon to do that extra. Some forms of tourism are still on their way. There are many signs that this is causing a great deal of suffering to entrepreneurs and their employees. But the cabinet fully agrees with Mrs Gerkens that the balance sheet should be monitored and that distribution should be discussed there. In the direction of Mr Crone, too, I would like to put some order in the various regulations, because if we are going to throw IHC and HEMA into a pile with the packing supplier, then we are really confusing everything. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Otten. We have a regular set of instruments. It is not for me to reveal whether HEMA uses it, but it is open to HEMA and it is open to Suitsupply. It doesn't look at the founder's means of transport. It looks at whether there is a loss of revenue and whether jobs are at risk. The purpose of the aid granted under the regular package is not to make the shareholder richer. That's not the issue either. It is about meeting some of the costs needed to keep the company alive and to keep the jobs. It would also have been possible for many entrepreneurs to fire everyone. To counter that, there is a toolbox. But that is neither intended nor clearly appropriate to make the shareholder rich. The shareholder becomes poorer in keeping the people in service, but that is what we are asking. That is what we have asked of entrepreneurs, and there is a concession to alleviate their suffering. But Suitsupply didn't negotiate a special package with me. It's just a regular bill. It's just open to everyone. That's probably "corona C" in this case. There is nothing strange about that in the context of the regular package. In fact, it was intended that we should be able to maintain employment. IHC is another case, but I am fighting for Mr Crone's ease of lending. This ease is not the first image that IHC's various stakeholders would create; certainly not. That's been a hell of a fight. In the direction of Mr Otten, I would like to add that there was absolutely no sufficient interest in the private sector. In fact, the moment I got involved, the plea was settled and the end of the story. There was therefore not enough interest in the private sector. This interest has been generated by the fact that, in this necessary and specific case, the government was prepared to grant a bridging loan, by the way, with an upside for the taxpayer. As soon as the ship in question is delivered, we'll be off that again. Private shareholders then take over the government's share and the government withdraws, as far as its loan is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u69	Mr Crone, a brief supplementary question by interruption. You're gonna have to push the pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u70	I asked the Minister about Suitsupply as an example, because we have a generic regime. You also say that this fits in with the generic regulation. But I want to judge that generic scheme not only on the beautiful blue eyes, but on how it is implemented. The entrepreneur himself presented this morning that he received 40% of the State's state guarantee and that the banks are not at risk because the State does so. He also says: I didn't have to write off supplies, because I can sell the suits in the near future; my father was already a manufacturer of the same stuff forty years ago. Thirdly, he says: I have also been able to use the NOW scheme. Then I think: here an entrepreneur in the market sector is helped by ordinary clothing. What's the public interest here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u71	If the turnover is disappointing, the NOW scheme helps the entrepreneur to seduce to keep people in service. The necessary liquidity needs arising at a time when turnover is lagging behind and no profit is being made can be met by a loan that is possible under State guarantee but which must be repaid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u72	But as someone, I already referred to the past...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u73	Mr Crone, for the second time, you will have the floor for a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u74	But someone like that knows that in the fashion business, you've always had bad luck selling, even for fashion reasons. And now we're gonna cover this with a state guarantee, while he himself says he doesn't even write it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u75	A liquidity requirement is not suitable to cover a depreciation of stocks. That could be a solvency issue. This is a matter of continuity in the current cases. This is the purpose of this generic instrument. It does not matter to say in a specific case that is just covered and for which it is intended: the founder moves on in an expensive vehicle, so we are going to make an exception for that. We have a regular toolbox in this country that is focused on the needs that exist. This is different for solvency and liquidity. It is aimed at the survival of the company and in particular of the jobs. That's not what it's about to do to the owner. In fact, we're also asking for part of the owner. So it doesn't make him richer, it makes him poorer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u76	I say this in succession to Mr Crone. The reason I am asking about Lazard and advisors is that in recent weeks I have become aware: what are these people doing, how are these arrangements being implemented? Because it's common knowledge that Suitsupply is heavily funded. That company has a global growth strategy and tries to quickly realise an IPO and then place the risk with the shareholders. Well, that behavior has shown more companies in the past. I myself come from the merger and acquisition industry. That's all very legitimate. But if it goes wrong, you've taken that risk yourself. The market has changed structurally, so I do not think it is the responsibility of the government to step into it. And the HEMA: ditto. That company's been in financial trouble for years too, because it's been misfinanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u77	What's your question, Mr. Otten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u78	How are these assessments carried out in concrete terms, by whom and with what advice? I have the impression that the Minister is really dropping there. In the case of Suitsupply, he was sewn into the suit by the shareholders of Suitsupply. That must be done better!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u79	We really need to distinguish between the regular instruments with which we cannot deliver customisation, but where a party simply has to meet the legal conditions and the conditions of the scheme. And I hope that tailor-made work will be limited to a handful of companies for which something special needs to be done. By the way, I dispute that we have somehow been able to do something for HEMA. I was prepared for everything, but that is precisely proof of the fact that the market has to do it if it can do it itself. That's what the market did. That's where the government didn't jump in. The starting point that Mr Otten and I share is that it should initially be done by the shareholders, the stakeholders in broad terms. I think that the shareholder has lost his share and that the outsiders there have had to take a haircut that is firmer than a haircut at the barber's. The State didn't take advantage of that. That's exactly the bet. You can read that, too. The framework that I have created for the special cases is so strict that many after reading will first see if they can resolve it with their own parties. Only if you can't, the government will look at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u80	I would like to point out that we are now really running out of time with this debate by two late speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u81	Yes. I'm gonna try to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u82	We now have two deadlines. I shall give the floor to Mr Otten for a brief interruption, who will also be given a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u83	I signed up on time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u84	Mr. Otten, I'm not insinuating that you applied late. There are other speakers who have signed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u85	But I can't take the fall for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u86	We've been running out for ten minutes now, plus interruption time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u87	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u88	... so that's why the friendly request to keep it short and to move on to the next term. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u89	The situation at HEMA and Suitsupply is not fundamentally different. That company Suitsupply, which was already on display last year, was expanding with thin margins worldwide. That is a very risky strategy that the shareholders, the NPM, in the hands of the Fentener family of Vlissingen, top ten of the Quote 500, and Mr De Jong, who is also a good entrepreneur, have willingly done. That might have gone wrong without corona, too. So you let yourself be, I think, too easy to keep up with by all kinds of handy people who think: well, it's corona, I'm just trying at Wiebes; no, you can get it, and he's still doing it. And you have no upside in the company; would have asked for a share back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u90	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u91	Why hasn't the Minister handled that differently? My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u92	It is not up to the Minister to do anything else if there is a generic regulation; then someone has a right to do so. We also have subsidies in all kinds of other areas that are provided under certain conditions, and then you can't say: well, here the owner has done this, there is sister or something going on. The terms are such that you can execute it. There is a clear rationale behind this, but it is not so that we can make an exception in all kinds of areas. This is not being implemented by me; it is being implemented by the RVO, and the cabinet is not going to make a separate decision. And it's being checked to see if the conditions are met. That is different with IHC, that would have been different with HEMA, because these are things that are outside the regular arrangements. And again, customization within a generic scheme, where hundreds of thousands of companies come in, is simply not conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u93	Mr. Otten, your third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u94	Finally, Mr President. We should not allow taxpayers' money to flow away because it is in an arrangement. Then that arrangement needs to be adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u95	I look forward to Mr Otten's suggestions for the adjustment of the arrangements, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u96	Minister, may I ask you to complete your term, if possible, quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u97	Yes. I'm gonna try to make it quick. I am going to give the shortest possible answer in the direction of Mr Crone, and I am going to comment on all the things that are going on. What is it? 12 or 13 points by the Court of Auditors and those seven of its own. Look, I see no difference whatsoever between what the Court of Auditors is proposing and what Mr Crone is suggesting, with the framework that is now in place. If Mr Crone reads the framework that is now in place, through the eyes of a private equity firm, he says: all the ideas to ensure that the government does not put unnecessary money into this are secured here. I saw the opinion of the General Court as a support for the policy and I read it smilingly, as I also smilingly heard Mr Crone's additional suggestions, and here too I believe that this is in line with that framework. Of course, sometimes it is necessary to look at Brussels. More generally, the 55% of Brussels also listened to us; in the industrial framework in the climate field, Brussels listened to us; we regularly discuss state aid issues with Brussels. So that is exactly Dutch policy, to ensure a level playing field. And that Germany would do more about sustainability in all areas... Well, keep that to a German, he'll probably think differently. In the field of the sustainability of the chemical industry, the fleet, I challenge Mr Crone to point out that gap to me. Explicitly, I say in his direction that part of that framework is that there is room for an upside. That's not in those standard regulations, but it's just, you know, the dresswork. But in the framework, so where the customization is, it is explicitly directed on an upside. It is intended that the taxpayer will not only be able to go down there, but also the ride upstairs. That is exactly the thrust of this framework. Then there is his question as to what level the interest rate is at. I think he put his question a little sloppy. The interest rate is determined by banks, not by me. I think he means the bounty. The premium also depends on the situation. It depends on the bank interest rate, the risk, the maturity and the share of the government guarantee. On this basis, a market-based premium is determined. But we don't set interest rates. Mr Otten asked how the government could have taken so much risk in the ecv. The ekv is precisely intended for very large projects abroad with a certain risk. If we did not have the ecv, a lot of entrepreneurs would simply not be willing to undertake these big projects abroad. All in all, the ecv has been at least a cost-covering institution in recent years. I don't know about the last stand, but when I was responsible for that, we even made a profit. But it is important for the Netherlands that large Dutch exporters know the government on their side in undertaking large projects. This is important for exports. This is also widely recognised. This includes risks, but it also includes premiums. So the government gets a fee for it, too. There was no defense role at IHC. When will the investment be recouped? I believe that this is becoming clear in the pieces. There is a bridging loan, where a separate upside is defined for the government. As soon as the first piece of work is finished, new private shareholders will take over. They pay the same amount as the government provided as bridge credit and thus become a shareholder. They thus relieve the government, with the exception of the onside, which remains as a share of the government. We do that because there is a clear public interest. This is a sector with a phenomenal appearance. The Netherlands is world famous for this sector. The Netherlands is famous in the dredging industry. That's connected to the construction. It is one of the most innovative ones, and I say to Mr Otten: one of the most sustainable dredgers in the world. A lot of employment depends on this, even in a vulnerable region. And yes, the conviction is that this company is viable. To let it go down by one accident, while it can be solved with a bridge credit, I decided to go too far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u98	Mr Otten, a brief supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u99	I fully recognise the importance of the dredging sector for the Dutch economy, as does the Minister. I have a more specific question. These problems with IHC were partly caused by all kinds of calculation problems with those dredging ships. They turned out to be much more expensive than budgeted. That's what got the company into trouble. I have two questions for the Minister. Did that export credit insurance somehow foresee that, should the company not control it itself, there was a particular course or something like that? Or did the management get carte blanche to let it all happen? Secondly, I have a question about how exactly the structure of the deal works. You say that if the ship is delivered, the loan will be converted into an interest. At what price will the government get back its shares or its interests? That's not entirely clear to me from the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u100	The Minister. Short answers, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u101	No, no. What in this case were the exact conditions for the ekv, I don't know. What I do know is that, if the company had gone bankrupt at the time I took over the file, that would have been the only remaining view of our ekv should have written off or written off. He wouldn't be reclaimable. This means that we certainly had a financial interest in ensuring the continuity of the company, but the overarching public interest there was the very high-quality employment, also in relation to the whole chain in a sector that is important for the Netherlands. Then there's his second question. I'm just gonna take it off my head. Most of the time it's been negotiated at night. There is a government bridging loan to the company of 40 million. It will be refunded after delivery of the ship in question. Instead, the same sum is deposited in the company as own funds by the new shareholders. That means we get our share back one-on-one, including interest. The upside, a certain share, is left behind in the company as a government share, which we can end in the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u102	Mr. Otten, your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u103	One more question, just to get it straight. I recognise the importance of a company like IHC and the dredging sector for the Dutch economy. I think that's a very different story from Suitsupply or HEMA. We have no misunderstandings about that. But if there hadn't been any interference with that export insurance, how much would the damage have been for the State if nothing had been done? That is just as important to know in the deliberations on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u104	I don't know by heart, but it's very clear in the pieces. An estimate has been made of the necessary depreciation of the ECV in the event of bankruptcy. In the event of the company's bankruptcy, part of the ECV should be written off. There's an estimate of that, which I know is in the pieces. I don't know the number by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u105	The Minister can at the end... I understand that Mr Otten has a third question or comment, or would you like to do so in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u106	I've seen several amounts in newspapers. I was wondering what the worst case scenario was. Perhaps the Minister can come back to that later when he has more information on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u107	I do not remember any different amounts in this area. I just don't remember the amount. But I'm sure someone's coming to give it to me on a note. It is true that the questions that have been asked recently, I believe on Thursday, could not yet be answered. It's not that weird. A normal three-week response period isn't that crazy. Sometimes it takes longer. We're doing our best, but it's not like people are sitting in the office right now. I understand that. This isn't gonna work. The whole civil service is pounding. And again, I have extraordinary respect for the people who leave the light on until very late to serve the public interest. This didn't work out. I'm asking you to understand that. The only way I can serve Mr Vendrik in relation to the billion is to convey the message to my colleagues from the State Department and the State Department. How's the monitoring going? The monitoring is done by the banks. The fairly impressive amount of some 17 billion in liquidity has been pumped into the market. The specific share of the KCC scheme is modest, but it is only just there. It started on June 2nd. It also had to be made public afterwards. So that's a limited share; that's right. We keep our finger on the wrist in two ways. Of course, we look at the figures every time and have talks with the banks about it. The Secretary of State for EZK and I had these together many times, with great commitment from the banks, who really see this problem and, I think, have delivered impressive performance. They all appeared with their foreman on the phone in long-term telecommunications conferences to make something of this together. That 17 billion is an indication of that. My brief answer to the cultural sector is that this sector is free to make use of the regular arrangements. Where the fall in turnover is more than 20% and more than 30%, the schemes can be used if the conditions are met. In addition, there is an emergency fund. That is not there for other sectors. In addition, there is also a discussion with the Minister of OCW. This sector is now in serious trouble. Government regulations are against that. Is that enough? I believe that Mr Vendrik used the word 'optimum'. I never know if it's optimal. I do know that in the eyes of the people who are involved it is never enough. I would also like to say honestly that we cannot compensate everyone for the complete damage. I can't. There is also a share of a sector itself and there will also be companies that are going to get into trouble or have to think about a kind of suspension, a kind of mothball scenario, where you say: we freeze for a while, then we thaw again and then pick up our role again. This also requires agreements with the agents of the fixed charges, the suppliers, the landlords and so on. But it's never gonna be ideal. Then the damage to the state. If the State had not intervened with IHC, the damage, as estimated at the time, is 395 million, I say in the direction of Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u108	That closes your term, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u109	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u110	We now have the second term on the side of the Chamber. I give the floor to Mr Van der Linden, who is talking about legislative proposal 35438.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u111	Thank you, Mr President. My contribution was mainly about benefits to bankrupt companies and to do something about it. I do have a question for the Minister. There is not yet a specification of 6 million for bankruptcy and after bankruptcy. Can it be given in due course? Can the Minister indicate that he will report to the Chamber on this so that we can see how much of that 6 million has now been paid before and how much after bankruptcy? Veder (PSE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Before this debate, I spoke to curators. Benefits are being paid to companies which have been declared bankrupt. That's about tons to millions. One has even proactively contacted the UWV to indicate: I do not think this is going well and you need to do something about it, because with this tax money goes directly to the estate of curators. Control itself takes place through tax administration. This control is obviously inadequate, because something is going wrong. The Minister states that it is not possible to do so for the 130,000 companies receiving NOW support. Well, I wish to fight that here anyway. 51 years ago, we put people on the moon. These 130,000 companies all fit an Excel sheet. It may be a long one, but it really fits. If you make an export of the Central Insolvency Register two days before you pay out of that NOW scheme, that can simply be done online and an export of the NOW payment you're going to make in relation to those 130.00 companies and you're going to put a few people to work to find the differences and see if there are a few bankrupt companies in that list, that way you can save tons of money to millions. I'd like to make that call to the Minister anyway. Does he want to promise that he's gonna start it anyway? 'Cause I think it's really possible. If not, I have a motion of which I am prepared to withdraw if the Minister undertakes to do so. The President shall: Mr Van der Linden proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prior to the payment of NOW funds, no direct check is made on the basis of the Central Insolvency Register or that payments are made to companies that have (very) recently gone bankrupt;]] [[noting that some EUR 6 million had been paid out to companies declared bankrupt but that it was unclear how many of them had been paid before and how much after bankruptcy;]] [[Whereas the NOW scheme does not intend to grant benefits to companies which have already been declared bankrupt;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an audit on the basis of the Central Insolvency Register shortly before the date of payment of NOW funds, in order to avoid as much as possible the payment to companies which have been declared bankrupt,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35438-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thanks to the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer, because I think we understand each other that, when converting the debt instrument, I would like to say that it is grey to the green economy that additional instruments may be needed for the workers. Think of adapting education and so on. I have stressed that this is why it is a good thing that you should discuss this with the Minister of Economic Affairs once again in each aid package: I will give you some extras as a government, because then you can quickly green up. He mentioned the example of the Hemwegcentrale. You know it like no other. I am therefore deliberately adding this to the specific state aid schemes, in addition to the generic schemes. I would, of course, like to thank the Minister for Economic Affairs for his answer, but he is always using two debate tricks. He always says, "You're messing things up." It always is, but it's okay. I think that is more of a "tapping someone out of the discussion" rather than a substantive argument. And then he says, "You're sloppy." I would have said, for example, that I want higher interest rates, but that of course it is the premium. Yeah, well, when we're discussing first-year economists, I don't like it anymore. But fortunately, I like debates with him, because I'm gonna kick his ass. That's what he's giving me. So that's what I'm doing now. So I like the style, but not quite the shape. I certainly like the content, but this minister is content. I have a few brief comments to make on this, but I had to say this. You say that I was pleased with the 16 opinions of the Court of Auditors' opinion. But the things I mention are not in your policy framework. I will mention some of them. Make a plan B. Make different scenarios. I said I want to stretch those scenarios to a green scenario. So there are a lot of things in it, including about the government commissioner, which are not in your support and consideration framework. That is why I repeat my question. Send us a letter in which you say that what is being supplemented, improved, strengthened, including on the basis of the opinions of the Court of Auditors. That's also a High College of State. Then I should also like you to take some of my criteria with you. Then I would like to have another debate with you in September. So come up with a supplement to that point. I only see it as a commitment that you agree with me that there should be a level playing field in environmental standards. If I get the challenge that Germany is doing badly, you are right: we are not going down. Conversely, if Germany goes higher, we will not be under Germany. I hope that will then be the level playing field between us: we want together the highest climate and environmental objectives. Then there's the key point. So we should not give companies the opportunity to go below these environmental standards in the framework of aid, because then we will, as it were, allow them to grow more dirty and we will get the bill later because they will then ask for subsidies to become greener. But let me be positive: I think we agree on this point. We want the same level playing field, in terms of the environment and the economy. And economics should not take precedence over the environment, as far as it already exists. Mr President, finally on Suitsupply. Of course, that's a strange example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u113	Mr. Crone, the time you requested is up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u114	Then I'll finish with two sentences on that, Mr. Chairman. It cannot be explained, even if it is within the generic schemes, that a company without depreciation on stocks and without liquidity problems, at least they have been able to use NOW, but with other problems, falls within such a scheme. Then I think: look at that arrangement again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u115	Thank you, Mr Crone. Finally, Mr Otten from the Otten Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have seen the debate a little bit. You actually see two kinds of arguments. On the one hand, if you have to cut down a forest somewhere, Dutch people will all improve each other. They say, you have to do it this way, you have to use another saw and you have to saw obliquely. They all know exactly how to do it. They're like know-it-alls on the sidelines telling us how to do it. While on the other hand the question is, especially in such a crisis situation: am I chopping in the right woods? That's much more important. So we're not telling you any smart tales about a few million people who ended up in a bankrupt company. That is typically a case of "where is chopped, chips fall." You can't hear us about that, although of course it has to be contained. We think that's a side show, so we won't support Van der Linden's motion for that reason. What we do want is for aid to be given to the good companies. I do not want it in what Minister Wiebes says, namely 'it is the regulation and we implement it like a chicken without a head'. Even if it's in the rules, anyone who has any sense of business and the way you have to do this type of transaction can see that you shouldn't do it this way. Then you shouldn't do that because it's in the rules. There must be some sort of sanity check and that is why I asked: who advises the minister in the execution of this? Because clearly things are really fundamentally wrong. Those people are chopping in the wrong woods. So something has to change, otherwise we'll be on a slippery slope and hundreds of millions will soon be gone like snow for the sun. The second point I wanted to make is that this corona crisis is being seized now, and it has already been recalled by other speakers to introduce a kind of Wiebesfonds through the back door. Emergency companies that have all kinds of problems, for example because they are poorly managed or financed, or both, or because they follow risky growth strategies, should not be kept alive through so-called emergency packages, because they are not caused by corona at all. That is not how it should be done, and then the market must also be able to do its job. Certainly from a VVD minister I would have expected that, too. Businesses should not all be a bit pathetic here at the counter of Minister Wiebes, if they do not have it under control themselves. I just wanted to remind you of that point. I would like to hear the Minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u117	Is that the end of your second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u118	That was my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u119	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I'll allow one interruption, Mr. Van der Linden, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u120	My first question is: do I understand that Mr Otten is going to vote against this aid package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u121	No, no, I'm going to vote in favour of the support package, but I say don't get smart on the level of micromanagement, Mr Koolmees and Mr Wiebes, and tell them exactly how to implement every little procedure. I think they can do that very well themselves. We are talking about the broad line, namely that we ensure that there is a certain procedure for those who distribute hundreds of millions, and that we do not fall naïvely into all kinds of gaming games by handy entrepreneurs who use the schemes, which seem to offer them the opportunity to do so. A certain sanity check has to come up on that, as I call it. Someone with common sense has to say, guys, what's going on here, are we supposed to do this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u122	Thank you. Mr. Van der Linden, second and last in this interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u123	It is striking that Mr Otten is going to vote in favour of these aid packages. The scheme provides for the extension of joint venture financing in terms of ceiling height from 50 million to 150 million. The benefit paid to Suitsupply, which you were strongly opposed to, is covered by the existing scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u124	What is your question, Mr. Van der Linden?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u125	My question is: how can you make such a show of support here, while in this law the ceiling goes from 50 to 150 million?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u126	So we want a promise from the Minister that this will be carried out with more common sense than is currently the case. Otherwise, we will reconsider our vote. So I am very curious to see what the Minister will have to say in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u127	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Would one of the Members like to take the floor... Mr. Vendrik, close to the interrupting microphone, please. Unfortunately, I do not have time for additional speaking time. We're already 20 minutes behind. Then you really should have signed up sooner. You can put a short interruption at the interrupting microphone if you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u128	This is amazing, I must say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u129	No, no, you did not sign up for this debate. I've given you a term. That is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. That's why we're running late, so I'm giving you a chance to make another interruption. But I don't want to be blamed for failing you right now. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u130	Then we'll discuss this at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u131	Excellent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u132	I would like to put two questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u133	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u134	Thank you to the Minister for both answers. With regard to the guarantee schemes, the Minister gave an answer that I know of. I know the monitoring of the banks, of course. My point was: how do you test if that has enough range? That's a complicated question and then you need information from all kinds of sources. You actually need some kind of war room for that. My question was: how does the cabinet do that? That's what I was curious about. My second question concerns the cultural sector. The Minister says "a lot is already happening," but the point is every time it is a very diverse, very fragmented sector, with little banking funding. Warranties don't work. I would also like to make that point on behalf of my group. Perhaps the Minister can respond to that. The TOGS doesn't work because many people work from home, because they don't have money for an office and so on. The rest of the year there is probably no production, there are no performances, no conferences and so on. Something extra might have to be done there. The existing cabinet package, however valuable, does not come into its own in this sector because of the structure and fragmentation of the sector. Would the Minister with great creativity like to look again with the Minister of OCW at what he can do for this sector? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u135	Thanks to Mr. Vendrik. Ministers, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I won't touch the chair so it won't have to be cleaned in a minute. I had another question from Mr Van der Linden about the insolvency check. I agree that it is necessary to prevent the payment of NOW money to bankrupt companies or to ensure that companies are not subject to the suspension of payments. That check's in there, too, based on the policy administration. That administration is the basis for the entire NOW and is filled by the Tax Administration. But there is always a delay between declaring the bankruptcy or a suspension of payment and the registration in such a database. So it could go wrong in the timing. In our view, it amounts to 6 million, of which it is still unclear whether the companies were declared bankrupt before or after the payment of the funds. Adding this to the procedures only complicates the system. It's thousands of payments a day. 125,000 companies per month use it and there are 20 working days in a month. That just can't be done manually. I therefore reject the motion, although I agree with a great many considerations. Again, the check is in the current system based on the Tax Administration's policy administration. I don't want to add any new ones. Against that background, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u137	Mr Van der Linden has a brief interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u138	I asked if the Minister would agree that the split of the 6 million before and after will be made at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u139	Afterwards, we'll see how much has been paid out to bankrupt companies. As soon as we know, we can estimate whether the amounts have been paid out at the time when a company was already bankrupt or before that moment. In the final evaluation, we can take that with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u140	Thank you. Then the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u141	Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Crone that it is wise to look at several variants where that can be done. We know from the media alone that the well-known department store has just looked at four different settings. I also agree with him that where this can be done and where it fits in with the plans, it is always custom-made greening that needs to be pursued, just because investment euros that we are now investing in further fossilisation are lost money. We both agree with the Court of Auditors that the concept of "State Commissioner" should not be exaggerated. In fact, I'm not betting on that either. I didn't write it down in the context of what I'm not gonna do, but in the context of what I'm gonna do. It is my proposal that I pledge to Mr Crone that I make an appreciation of these General Court opinions. Or, if so, where there is a need for tightening, then we look at that piece. I'm open to comment again. So I'll admit I'll give you an appreciation. We also seem to agree strongly on the level playing field. I am very pleased that the level playing field has improved so much in terms of sustainability and with the Green Deal. That's a blessing. We have fought hard for it in Europe, but it has become what we wanted. Of course, we should not give companies the opportunity to go under the climate agreement. I would like to say that every company must comply with the commitments of the Climate Agreement. Mr Otten asks who advises me. Where the special case of IHC is concerned, he gets an answer. But I think that is less lame than Mr Crone, and I shall make a distinction between those two segments. I really think that's something else. Questions may be asked about both, but they are not the same. In the domain of the regular schemes, the RVO tests whether a company in its core is healthy. For this purpose, the RVO looks at all kinds of profitability and continuity perspectives. Furthermore, the RVO ensures that guarantees only have to do with new money, that there have been no excess capital withdrawals in the last 12 months and that it is related to corona. That is what is feasible and again, further considerations are not feasible in this way. Once the scheme is in place, anyone who meets the conditions can also use it. We constantly consider whether conditions should in some cases become looser and in others tighter. The instruments are therefore constantly being looked at, but this is the state of thinking about their feasibility and their defendability.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u142	It's actually getting clearer to me what's going wrong here. I like to think along with the Minister: how else would I do it if I was sitting there? We are in a crisis situation and then it does not make much sense to look at profitability figures from 2018. That's all pretty pointless. You have to look ahead with people who have a particular judgment. Those people need to judge what's going on. Is this viable or not? I now understand how things are going: it all goes through the existing arrangements and the existing channels. There's a bunch of sharked sharks coming in and they're all handled by tick the boxes, according to the lists. Yeah, so you're gonna have accidents! I already asked in my second term, but I ask again: add some kind of sanity check by someone who knows about it and can also assess the business. What are we doing here? Aren't we throwing good money at bad money here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u143	Thank you, Mr. Otten. You just repeat the question again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u144	Is the Minister prepared to do so? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u145	I'm willing to do that, as far as that fits in. To check whether the problem was caused by corona or not, it makes sense to look at profitability and all kinds of numbers from the past. Maybe the problem was there before corona? In this sense, within these frameworks a certain amount of framework-led business judgement comes into play. But we can't do that for more than 100,000 companies. In the case of larger companies, I will set up a team to monitor the entire company, but this is simply not feasible under this joint venture scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u146	Mr. Otten, second and last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u147	I do not think we are talking about tens of thousands of regulations guaranteeing 40 or 50 or 100 or 400 million. How many cases are there now where guarantees of more than 30 million, let us be arbitrary? At Suitsupply it was, I believe, 40 million, but how many of those cases are being dealt with now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u148	The Minister. I'm asking him to complete his term immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u149	I don't know. The last list included fewer than ten companies which are not included in these frameworks and which are looked at very carefully within the framework. A number of them have now become obsolete. And again, before the question is answered whether it is wise to do something special for this, a team has looked into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u150	Complete your speech and complete your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u151	A team of people who would perhaps be involved by Mr Otten himself in the case. Mr Otten and I also have the same message, namely that the market must do its job as much as possible and that the market must clean up its own mess as much as possible. If he looked at that frame, he'd see that there's life in it. If Mr Otten leaves it again in the evening, I think he will read with a smile on his face how emphatically that message comes back in it. That is how it is written: where the market can do it, the government should not do it, and where the market cannot do it, the question remains whether the government should do it. That is what the framework is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u152	No, Mr. Otten. As with Mr. Van der Linden, in this last term, I will allow you one interruption. Unfortunately, we don't have much time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u153	Mr Vendrik is right to say that it is important to constantly assess whether the liquidity possibilities and the instruments are sufficient. There's no systematic way to do that. There is not one barometer, but we found in the beginning that it would very probably not be enough. How do we do that? We get cases and all kinds of cases that have been rejected or that have come through. On that basis we form a judgement and have had very frequent and very intensive contact with the largest banks, to look at this very closely. On this basis, additional measures have been taken on the part of the banks, but also on the part of the government with regulations, in various ways. Things have changed in all kinds of arrangements, because we saw that at first it didn't have the range we wanted. Ultimately, it is important to realize that the government cannot guarantee 100%, because 100% is that particular number that is also called "free beer," and that is not possible. So it remains a judgement of banks and of the experts who look at it. But at the beginning we ran into a situation where there was conviction on the part of the Empire and the banks that we were not yet doing enough together. After that, there was a lot of consultation and a lot of things changed. It's still a matter of judgment. I still get examples that I think are "crazy." Then we'll go after that again. But we can also see the numbers rising enormously, because 17 billion extra liquidity has been pumped into the market since.. what is it? Oh, yeah. Early March, it's solid. Then there's the cultural sector. Mr Vendrik's conviction that something extra must be done there is also the conviction of the Minister of OCW. In particular, it has created a separate emergency fund for this purpose. She's also still talking to that sector. Moreover, parts of this sector will also have to amount to some kind of mothball variant. It is also not possible for parties with insufficient prospects to continue to pay fixed charges at the expense of a government. Then, at some point, the parties must also put their heads together and say: boys, for the next few months it will not be possible; we must all stop sending accounts to each other, but we must then get back together. This is also the case in some sectors, and this could well be the case in parts of this sector. You'll only have a discotheque, I always say. That is not the cultural sector in that sense, but I will cite it as an example. If you now have a discotheque, you have to sit extremely creatively with your suppliers, with your landlord and with your employees. That is a special situation and for that the government will not be able to solve everything. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u154	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-06-eerstekamer-4.u155	I have come to deal with the legislative proposals. We start with the bill 35438, the second incidental supplementary budget on the Emergency Jobs Package and the Economy. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That is not the case. Then the bill is accepted.
