ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u1	We now come to the first term of office of the Minister. I propose that the spokesmen be allowed to ask six questions during this period. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to start with a general introduction in three cubes. After that, I will always answer the questions in those three blocks. I'll report that. Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank Members for their input in the first term. It is true: we have spoken on several occasions on this subject, and unfortunately mostly on the basis of information that has come out at different times. In your Chamber there is incomprehension and annoyance about this, if I may be so bold as to translate the feelings in this way. I must tell you that I understand these feelings. It is precisely on this issue that unambiguous information is crucial. I would also like to make no mistake about it. I was asked to share and share that annoyance with you. As far as I am concerned, therefore, there is no misunderstanding. You have asked a large number of questions, each of which I will address separately. I will divide those questions into cubes, which I will now mention and on which I would like to say something in a general sense. The first block is about how exactly the process around this attack went. I would now like to say a few words about this in general. This concerns the targeting process that preceded the attack, the investigations carried out by CENTCOM, the DOD itself after the attack, and the lessons learned from it. I note that these processes have gone through well in themselves, although, of course, the outcome was quite different from what could be expected, as Mr Bosman also said. That's what we've always reported. In the first block, I will deal specifically with the questions raised. The second block is the provision of information as far as I am concerned during the F-16 mission. That is until 31 December 2018. I would like to say the following in general terms. What we can see is that during the mission we were very reluctant to disclose information. The Chamber has been informed for years, first confidentially and then publicly, but indeed always in small steps. That has happened because for an organisation like Defence, you always have to find a balance between transparency and security. Every Minister of Defense also feels responsible for the safety of his or her people. As a cabinet, we are all responsible for the security of this country. Sometimes that means you want to be more transparent, but you can't be. Transparency must not lead us to make the enemy wiser, certainly not IS as an enemy. That's a weighting every time. I know your room shares this, too. In the future, we will do it differently. I fully agree with your Chamber that we in Defense need to be more critical of the information we have and get when we act in a coalition. We will need to make better agreements on how we communicate within the coalition on arms deployment and on how far we can be externally transparent about it. We need to inform each other better; also in order to better inform your Chamber. When I make those appointments, you will understand that I will always emphasise the importance of careful communication. I would like to say to you that, in fact, we all want the same thing: more transparency during the mission and more openness about the actions of Defence and the armed forces. I fully agree with what Mrs Belhaj said about that. I believe that more transparency really contributes, as Mrs Belhaj said, to support the armed forces. Your Chamber agreed to this mission in 2014. Your Chamber must also be able to exercise its controlling role. The third block is the provision of information after the end of the F16 mission, so that is after 31 December 2018. This is about my own policy since my arrival. It was before, but I want to say something about my own policy. Since my arrival, my own policy has been to be more transparent about our air action. We've talked about this on a regular basis. That did not happen in this Chamber, but in general consultation. I've done it one step at a time. I'm still working on that. Honestly, it used to go with falling and getting up sometimes. Sometimes it wasn't as fast as I wanted. Your Chamber and society demand and deserve as transparent a government as possible, which takes responsibility for its actions. I don't think the DOD should be an exception to that. Within what is possible; we have to keep an eye on that. After the end of the mission, I have therefore made every effort to inform the Chamber as well as possible and in good conscience. I'll keep doing that. I gave you all the information I had at the time and I could share with you. Those are the two sides of the matter. I understand that at least it raises questions that journalists do get certain information and we do not as an ally. I personally asked my American colleague... I will return to the answers later. I spoke to him in person to verify all the information we had on Hawija. I also asked him if I could send the investigation reports to your Chamber. You received the reply on 24 March. We weren't allowed to release the reports at the time. An error has also been corrected. You're all aware of that. That mistake was acknowledged by my colleague, and I reported it to you. I don't want to pretend that I'm just gonna get over this, because I'm not gonna do that. In December, in the debate, I expressed all my displeasure about communication. I literally said: I hate this. I agree with all the Members who have expressed their surprise at the fact that journalists receive this information and we do not; by the way, with all due respect for the work of these journalists. I'm glad the information is now public. The pieces were sent to us at the same time. I immediately ensured that your Chamber also received these documents. Of course, I am going to deal with the questions that have been raised on this subject. I do have one more point to make here, because there is still a WOB request from journalists at the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's an independent institution, so we just have to wait and see. Of course, we can't say what's coming out of that right now. Finally, in general terms, Mr President. I have told you before: as far as I am concerned, every civilian victim is too many. There is no one who denies or trivializes the tragic consequences of this attack. I certainly don't. As the Deputy Commander of the Armed Forces said yesterday, such a situation is the nightmare of every kite. This also applies to all military personnel involved in the preparation, but also to every Minister of Defence. That's just the case, because it's ultimately responsible for a mission, even if it goes differently than expected. That's just reality. Despite the precautions, despite the professionalism of the people who do this work for us, things can sometimes turn out differently than you expect. Mr Bosman said that, and others said that. This was my general introduction, Mr President. Then I'm going to answer the questions in those three blocks. I've arranged them the same way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u3	Then I have Mrs Karabulut, then Mrs Belhaj and then Mr Kerstens. Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u4	The Minister says here for the umpteenth time that she stands for transparency and honesty and that she wants to inform us fairly. But here we are again. Nevertheless, in December, the Minister, once again, de-informed us. Nevertheless, together with colleagues, I have asked all kinds of questions, crucial questions, which I do not get an answer to. This was, for example, about definitions and the juggling with definitions of the victims of civilians, for example, about the fact that another coalition partner refused the attack, and for example about the reports that now show that the CIA and the Americans have warned the Netherlands about civilian casualties in advance. If the Minister is so in favour of transparency, why has she misinformed us again? Why are we only getting half the information? Why is there the magic with numbers? Why is full political responsibility not taken for this cover-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs Karabulut is now raising a number of questions which she has asked and which I am going to answer in the various blocks. Mrs Karabulut, you have now answered a number of questions which will come back in the blocks. I have not yet answered a question from your Members, but only made my general introduction. I have just indicated in my general introduction that I promised you, whatever I did in December, but actually from my arrival... Also in December I gave you the information I had, the information I could give you. Some things you can't make public, because you can't make some things public. You can see this in the letter on behalf of my colleague Esper of 24 March. That's American qualified. Esper says you can't make that public. So I decided at the beginning, when I took office, to be more transparent. Indeed, in 2018, as you know, at the request of your Chamber, we reported exactly on the arms deployment in the weekly reports. Afterwards, we could see how we could be more transparent, after the end of the mission, at the end of December 2018. I have prepared a letter on this in the direction of your Chamber, and I have sent it in your direction. We also had the debate on this in November. I promised you I'd ask you a few more questions. I did. Every time I gave everything I had to your room. That's what a minister can do. Whether it was good or bad, I gave it both to you. The same was true of the letter of 4 November. That letter was initially about transparency. In the end, however, I had to inform you of a mistake that had been made in the past. The same applies to the letter of 24 March. Because I have the official information. That's what the Secretary of Defense should be working on. I did. I have indicated to you what CENTCOM indicates in communication. Despite the fact that they said otherwise in December, I have read a literal text in this Chamber. So I gave you the information exactly on the basis of what I had. You may address me to that at any time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u6	You have denied that the 70 civilian casualties have been part of the US figures since 2017. Now it is a coincidence that these Americans confirmed this to everyone, that this fact has been known since 2017, that this has been discussed in the media for months, for years, and that this minister always gets the wrong notes from the Americans on the spot. I'm sorry to say that, but I find that very hard to believe. There's been all kinds of games with the big shots out there in America. It is not up to these soldiers; they have said from the start: this is them and we count them. When I ask 'what is it then', the Minister says: yes, they appear to be in it now, but it is more likely than not. If I ask whether there are several incidents and civilian casualties in those tables that are covered by this definition and whether these are confirmed deaths, then I cannot get an answer. Then the minister points back to the Americans and to CENTCOM. How am I supposed to do my controlling task? How does the Minister, who himself remains responsible for the consequences of the deaths at all times, intend to carry out her own role as Minister of Defence? Or doesn't the minister want to know the truth? I get that impression again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u7	I actually thought that Mr Bosman explained very well in his speech how the process was organised. Let me look at the point Mrs Karabulut is talking about. The highest thing I can do is write the U.S. Secretary of Defense in person. I shall come back to the questions put by Mr Van Ojik and others in the block that I have been doing myself. I promised the Chamber in December: I will ask and verify that. I'll tell you how I did that later. Then there's an answer to that and the answer from the Americans is that it's "more credible than not." It was a mistake to include that in the communication, because normally it's about confirmed victims. That's what that letter says on behalf of my American colleague. You can't say I misinformed you. I will give you exactly and precisely with an affidavited translation of what my American colleague has said. That's my job. I answer the questions you ask me, even if it's not a good time. Of course, this answer did not come out at all. I'm just sick of that, just like I was sick of that state coming up all of a sudden in December. I asked. You remember that, Mr. Chairman, because you presided over yourself. I gave the answer then and now I return the answer I received. So I will give that answer even if it is not right for me, even if it creates a messy image, and I will continue to do so. That is the result of my transparency policy. Good news and bad news I'll report to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u8	The third question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u9	There are three to four, five, six, seven points on which I could ask, because we do not get the honest answer. Sometimes we get only half the answer, misleading answers or even disinformation. With the sworn translation, I ask the Minister: are there multiple civilian casualties in these statistics that are counted as "more likely than not"? What's the Minister's answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u10	Under this statistics is "confirmed'. My American colleague states in the letter I indicated to you that it is here'more credible than not'. That's what we have to do with. All discussions have rightly indicated that, of course, civilian casualties have occurred. We all know that. I think that's tragic, too. But that's the information we have, and I'll pass it on to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u11	The Minister announced that he would first say something in a general sense and then deal with the questions later. I'll leave those questions and follow-up questions for then. In my view, the Minister has deliberately begun to state that she understands that various parliamentary groups are not happy with the way things are going. You have all kinds of gradations in that qualification. The Minister says: I understand that. The Minister also says: I put my hand into my own bosom; perhaps we could have done something else. I think this is a very important moment before we go into the substance. We have had you in the Chamber before, and you have said before: I think it is genuinely important, I am going to do my best and I feel, in a way, something really about why it is necessary. Of course, we're here for the fourth time. I think it's important to hear from you again next time. If you look back at the moment that the report was published, would you and your ministry consider whether it is not relevant to tell us anything more about what is in the report without sharing confidential information, or if necessary to say: hey, the Chamber is so critical and would like to know; I am actively going to tell the Chamber that I keep it confidential minus the heavily classified information? I'd like to hear a little more from you. I am pleased that you are putting your hand into your own bosom, but I would like to hear a little more about what you would do differently now, if you look back on the past few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u12	I wanted to save the "what else would I do" block for the last part, because that is mainly learning lessons, but I can say something about it. I will come back to this later, because it is in the third block. It also fits better with the third block. The thing is, I can't just make American classified information public. A number of members of the Chamber have already spoken about this. Nor would we want a minister of America or of any country to make our classified information available to the public. As far back as December, I spoke to you about the changes I intend to make. I wrote that in the direction of the Chamber. I believe that if there is any indication of civilian casualties or otherwise on future missions, we will have to inform the Chamber without delay, preferably publicly, but confidentially, if that is not possible publicly during the mission. That's what I said. Then we can give you all the information right away. To this end, I have already indicated a number of these changes in December. I'll come back to that at the end. Then you avoid this kind of thing. Then you won't have to wait for a report that comes later, because then you'll hear it from our own mouths. When I look at now, I do have... But perhaps we should say this more clearly, I say it in the direction of Mrs Belhaj and others. I did say in the debates that recommendations had been made in the reports we have and that, as a result of this, adjustments were made in the procedure in the sense that the risk assessments were different. I'll get back to you on that. I was not allowed to make it public, but I did mention the lessons that were in it in the direction of the Chamber. I can say more about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u13	The Minister chose, of course, to report to the Chamber... We are not talking about a final conclusion or reflection. I understand; all that has to be done at the end. We still have a lot of questions to ask. But you chose to say: I understand very well how the Chamber behaves. It is very nice that you say that, but at the same time I think: what exactly do you understand why this Chamber now needs to stand here with you, why this Chamber is so angry that we are standing here again and how? You began, in general terms, by putting your hands into your own hands before we begin the debate. That is why I wanted to ask in general terms: but what exactly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u14	I understand very well that it is extremely complicated that information comes out in pieces, that journalists get more than we get. I don't like that myself, so to speak. I made a commitment in your direction to gather information. If I ask questions and get another answer, I'll tell you in your direction. I have to, because I promised you that. But that also sounds crazy. I get it. It sounds crazy. I think so, too. I'm sorry about that, too. There's no misunderstanding about that. I don't like the way the communication goes. We're gonna have to make other arrangements about that. But I come back to your questions and the questions that have been asked about them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u15	I would also like to return to the beginning of the Minister's contribution. She began by pointing out that she had the incomprehension and discontent...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u16	No, annoyance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u17	...annoyance of the Chamber had tasted. Then she indicated that she also shared that annoyance. Then I thought, "Now we're getting somewhere." I then had a strong impression that the annoyance which the Minister shares, particularly concerns the communication from America to her, rather than the annoyance which is present in a large part of the Chamber and has also been expressed, perhaps with the exception of Mr Van Helvert, about the Minister's communication to the Chamber. Could the Minister say a little more about that? 'Cause I kind of missed that when it came to "I share your annoyance." That annoyance is definitely there. Not only about communication from the Americans, but certainly also about the provision of information, the communication of this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u18	I understand that annoyance, too, as I was trying to point out to Mrs Belhaj, but I have to do it with the information I have, and I can give it, because of the secrecy of a number of things. I am well aware of this as Minister of STUDY and until recently of the AIVD. I've always given in the direction of the Chamber what I had. Even if there were different answers from my American colleague, for example, who gave a different answer in March than CENTCOM had given in December. I chose to just give that to you. I think it should be, because that's my job. I need to be absolutely clear and transparent about this. I understand your annoyance, because you think: hey, that's a different answer than I had before. So I have the same annoyance, because I find that very annoying. In that sense, you and I are in the same boat. I have to do it with the information that's out there. I'll have to give it to you. It is true that this will create an image that will have to be corrected, but that is the reality that exists in this process. That is why I believe that better agreements should be made on how to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u19	It is a good thing that I asked, because I now understand that the Minister has understood a very different kind of annoyance than at least I have highlighted in my speech and a number of colleagues. Do I understand correctly that the Minister, when she reflects on her own role, and that is what I am asking her now, says: "I would have done exactly the same thing"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u20	It depends on what you mean. When it comes to forwarding information to the Chamber, good news and bad news, I would do it the same way. The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u21	I know this is my third question, Mr President. I also know that you are well counted behind you, because I did have six earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u22	Look!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u23	Let's get back to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u24	The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u25	To demand, indeed. It almost slipped my mind now. I have my answer, Mrs Karabulut says. Of course, that's partly true. I hear the Minister now saying that she wouldn't have done anything else. I have quoted in my contribution from the Minister's written answers to questions we have asked. Answers that I have said sound more like the pen of a lawyer who does not want to show the back of his tongue than those of a minister who wants to regain the confidence of the Chamber. Would the Minister simply do that answer again in exactly the same vague, concealing way, or does she have today something like, "no, no, the Chamber has the right to genuine answers"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u26	That's another question. I shall come back to that later, because you have asked a number of specific questions in response to the answers given. I'll just come back to that. That is not the same question that has just been asked. I was gonna start with my first block, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u27	No, Mr. Van Ojik wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u28	I do have another question about the introduction. I think there's been a misunderstanding. The minister says "we're actually in the same boat, as minister and chamber," "I hate it too," "I think it sucks too," and "I share the annoyance." These are qualifications for a policy where the difference between the Chamber and the Minister is that the Minister is responsible for that policy and the Chamber is there to address and control the Minister. So we are not in the same boat, I say through you, Madam President, to the Minister. We are talking about a policy now described by the Minister himself as 'I think it sucks' and 'I hate it too', but she is responsible for it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what conclusion she draws from the qualifications she gives herself to things for which she is ultimately responsible, other than the House of Representatives. So we're not in the same boat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u29	You're linking the qualifications to something other than what I said. I have not linked them to policy; I have linked them to the communication between CENTCOM, or the US Secretary of Defense, and us, in response to the questions I have asked. So I didn't link them to policy. I'm entirely responsible for that. Maybe then it's better to say the following. Because there are always other answers, I have promised you to send them straight to your Chamber, and I do, with good news and bad news, of course, a messy picture arises. That's what I'm talking about. I am not talking about policy; I will come back to it later. So that's what I put it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u30	The transparency we are talking about every time is, of course, not just the image, but also the policy. This Minister has repeatedly committed himself to a policy of transparency in front of this Chamber. And we stand here every time because there is no transparency in practice, or because information is being sent that needs to be corrected later. So my question to the Minister remains: I understand that this does not refer to her whole policy, but that is at least the way communication has gone. And she's responsible for that communication. I would therefore like to ask the Minister, perhaps that will come later; I do not know what conclusions she will draw from the fact that it has been worthless in that respect and that she is also upset. 'Cause you can just say that, but I think that should have consequences, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u31	I'm not just saying that. I also indicated to you that this was my introduction and that I will return to it at the end, in the third block. The important thing is that you address me to the information I have. I've given it to you all the time. The information I had, I've always given to you. If that information was corrected a few months later, I gave it to you as well. I depend on what comes from CENTCOM or the Americans in this case. I do think that we really need to make arrangements for the future on how we want to do it differently. Questions have been asked by a number of your Members; I see Mr Stoffer and others behind you. But that comes to the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u32	I have a very specific question about the Minister's information and introduction. Did I hear the Minister say that she fully informed the Chamber in November with the information she was able to provide at that time? So everything she was able to give to the Chamber at that time, did she give? Did I hear that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u33	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u34	I find it strange that the Chamber was not informed of the contents of the defence investigation itself about the attacks and bombings on Hawija until February thanks to a WOB request from journalists. If I may quote from the decision on your WOB request: "Defension has carried out research into the arms deployment in Hawija. This investigation focused on the legality of the commitment and on any procedural errors. This investigation was concluded on 26 May 2016. I shall decide to make this report public with due regard for the following." You could have made that public in November too 'with due regard for the cases that follow'. I don't quite understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u35	Of course we could have, when it comes to our own research. But we were just talking about the information that was available between me and your Chamber and about the information that I had at the time. We have always talked about internal investigations in your direction, and we have taken them into account. I've always told you that there was an AR 15-6 investigation, but I couldn't make that public. That is also why I think we should work with each other on the improvements: to see how we can make things public and show them. But I've already said that, Mr. Chairman. In the blocks, those answers all come back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u36	Look, the MPs are allowed to ask six questions. If each question is asked two or three times, then they are through their questions. I know how that works. That's not exactly what we're supposed to do. I would therefore like to suggest that we try to simply answer the questions. If a question cannot be answered, then it can be answered later or at another time. Otherwise, I'm afraid it'll stick in cubes. Then it'll come back later and the MPs will ask you again, and again. Then you don't have a debate, but it gets complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u37	Yes, Mr President, that is why I proposed to start with the answers after the general introduction, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u38	I might have an idea. Let the Minister answer some questions and then you'll have the opportunity to ask questions, otherwise I'm afraid we'll stick around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Ojik just had a very interesting line. I would very much like to go on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u40	I heard about it, but should we let the minister finish first? I'm appealing to you. Then you'll have the opportunity to ask questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u41	After my general introduction I wanted to move on to the first block. How exactly did that whole targeting process end up? It was an attack that had tragic consequences. I just made it very clear that no one wants civilians to die, even though you know you're in a war against ISIS. I told you, that's every kite's nightmare. Mr Eichelsheim said that too, and that is my nightmare too. You can see that, unfortunately, there is a real chance that we will never know exactly how many dead and wounded there were to regret. After so many years, that is the reality we have to face. A number of questions have been asked about the targeting process. Mrs Belhaj asked: on paper, everything must be true and ultimately everything is true, but is that just a paper reality? No, it's not. In a situation where the enemy is in control of the area, as a coalition itself, you cannot, of course, observe goals extensively on the ground. That is also the reason why, in these situations, Mr De Roon said that, rightly so, the air weapon is ultimately used to take out IS fighters. Based on the information you do have, experiences with these kinds of goals, images taken from the air, and possibly also information from local informants, you indeed build a remote image of the goal. That's what you do. You make risk assessments and you take measures to mitigate risks. That's what happened to Hawija. The practice is that this happens remotely. There is no other way to do that goal development. This was made clear in the technical briefing yesterday. That is a process that needs to be done carefully. That's a process that's not an exact science. But you have to do it as carefully as possible in the end. That is very time-consuming work, which is also in the documents that have become public, because you have to assess the risks precisely and see how you want to mitigate them. That's what happens then. It was also asked, for example, by Mr Stoffer, whether the Chamber can trust that everything has been done to prevent civilian casualties. Was the targeting process, as it has been in development, all right? I dare, just like yesterday, to say yes in full again. Why? The Dutch red card holder did not indicate that he had too little information or did not trust the outcome of the target development. Our own investigation of the legality of the deployment and any procedural errors carried out by the legal, military and policy experts of the Ministry of Defence has shown that nothing in itself went wrong in that procedure. The coalition then concluded in an additional investigation into the targeting process, the AR 15-6 report, which you have received, that the targeting process, as Mr Bosman said, has gone right through. The documents also show that all those involved in the process have signed their proverbial signatures under the final conclusions. The attack was approved by the various commanders assigned to it. That whole complex, which really takes a lot of time, it's a huge puzzle that's being laid. It gives me the confidence that everything has been done to prevent civilian casualties and that the targeting process was good. Unfortunately, as Mr Bosman and, in my view, Mr Stoffer rightly said, we can only establish this afterwards, because of the unexpected amount of ammunition, the outcome was different. That's terrible, but that's how it is. Ms Belhaj asked about its preparation through the CDE, the collateral damage Estimate, one of the components of the targeting process, the target development. The Netherlands was not directly involved in this. You heard that in the technical briefing yesterday. Special software then makes an assessment of the damage caused by the use of a specific type of weapon for a specific purpose. That's what they're looking at. The CDE, as you have heard, was for this attack: zero civilian casualties. That was also the task for this purpose; it is good to realize that. You've also heard that the CDE doesn't calculate the impact of possible secondary explosions. The CDE is therefore one of the two elements. You have seen that the other, assessing the risks of secondary explosions, is then done by a group of experts in another place. If you look at that, then, looking at what the experts said, a number of mitigating measures should be taken, looking at the goal. They were taken, too. There's been a flight at night, other ammunition has been used, other weapons have been deployed. The experts also explained how that goes yesterday. They explained that the estimation of secondary explosions is not part of the CDE methodology. In order to assess its impact, you have to take the experience gained with similar goals. The properties of the targets must be comparable, such as the size and height of the building. That's what happened in the case of Hawija. Unfortunately, the major secondary explosion that occurred in Hawija was even compared to attacks against thirteen similar bomb factories....................................................................................................................................................................................... That's what the report shows. It was concluded that further attention should be paid to those risks of secondary explosions in the process, as stated in the AR 15-6 report. These are also the recommendations that have been made. Then I still have the red card holder in this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u42	What else do you say you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u43	The red card holder will also be in this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yes, I'd like you to finish this. Members will then be given the opportunity to intervene. I know Mrs Belhaj already wants to do that, but otherwise things are not going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u45	Then the red card holder. The pieces show how the targeting process has been done. That's what I've just been trying to outline in your direction. We've been asked how the red card holder is doing. How could some intelligence not have reached him? That is indeed how the target development works. This involves intelligence information from the entire coalition that does not see the red card holder as such. He's gonna see the outcome of that. All thirteen allies contribute to this. That's how the coalition operates with intelligence. Mr Stoffer asked: would the Netherlands have sufficient power to carry out research itself or to generate information? We are one of the thirteen cooperating countries. The Netherlands on its own does not have enough capacity and opportunities to collect information independently to deal with such a conflict independently. There's no way. We could never do that. So we can only do this kind of thing in a coalition context. Within the coalition, the Netherlands gets enough information to assess whether a goal is a legitimate goal. That's what you heard in the technical briefing yesterday. Then there is the question raised just now by Mr Kerstens whether we are aware that another country would have refused this objective in the context of the trade-off that has been made. I don't know. That might be clearer than "not known." We don't know. Nor do we make any statements about whether or not someone refuses. Other countries don't either. The Netherlands also refuses targets. That's been explained, too. We do not want to take advantage of some of the objectives. That's not always shared. Mr Kuzu had the question, in relation to the red card holder, whether or not this attack should have taken place. You have heard me say 'That was also explained yesterday in the technical briefing'that it is always a risk assessment that is made using the methodology available for that purpose. You have the CDE, which is a math model, and the experts' assessments. Mitigation measures have been taken, looking at the assessment that has been made. Eventually, a package of information was collected. That's what the Dutch red card holder gave you. This really showed that no civilian casualties were expected in this attack. Mitigation measures have been taken to this end, in fact on the basis of experience with other bomb factories. Thereupon, the red card holder and the legal advisor are always there; such a red card holder can make use of it.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Only afterwards can we determine that there was much more stored in this bomb factory. Mr De Roon rightly said that this may have caused many more deaths. There was a huge explosion, which destroyed a large part of other buildings in the vicinity of the industrial area, houses, for example. But that really wasn't the expectation. Only afterwards can we establish that. Then there was Mr De Roon's question in this block when the Iraqi red card holder comes into the picture. It's not really an Iraqi red card holder. It is true that the Iraqis always have to watch and approve the targets. A coalition agreement has been made with Iraq that they will give their consent to any target attacked in the air campaign. That's what happens before it's put on the list. Then they give permission to attack that target. So that is also after the approval of the Joint Targeting Board. So Iraq has no access to the entire target package like the Dutch red card holder does. I think these are all the questions on this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u46	If it is all right, Mrs Belhaj first, then Mr Kuzu, Mr Kerstens, Mr Voordewind and Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u47	I hear the Minister explaining a lot about the general issues that matter, but there are a number of specific questions, two of which I do not hear come back in her answer. You also say somewhere: it's not an exact science. Well, those models are exactly science. As the Air Force Commander states in that report, if you don't know how much ammunition there is, you can't actually say anything about the outcome of such a model. Furthermore, the Air Force Commander says in the report: if you're going to bomb an ammunition plant so close to homes, you can assume that there will be damage. You make the comparison every time with those 13 munitions factories that have been bombed before, but that's non-information. I don't know if those munitions factories were somewhere in the middle of nowhere, so it's not like Hawija in terms of risk. Secondly, I don't know what kind of bombs were used. Thirdly, I do not know to what extent these thirteen were all for Hawija and which after Hawija, so after the improvement proposal, were realized. I'd appreciate it if you didn't explain in general terms how it works, because I know that. I want to know how, if everything goes well, all the models are right and everyone has been careful, there is a bombing involving so many civilian casualties, where I have the impression that 70 are really still on the minimum side if you know that 400 homes have been bombed, with an average of six people living in such a house. So my question is whether the Minister wants to be a little more specific and whether she agrees with me that there have been major risks taken in this bombing, since they did not know how much ammunition was in there and because it was so close to a residential area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u48	That seems to me to be a fair question. I have tried to indicate how carefully the process has gone through. It is a good thing to have done so here in the Chamber, because that is how these processes always work and everywhere. So we have to be able to rely on that. Mr Bosman also referred to Mr Ducheine. In the case of the law of war, the question of proportionality is also a matter of preparation. In this case is really very good and long looked, maybe months, whether this was an approachable goal given its location. What else happened? Looking at the assumptions made about the amount of explosives in that bomb factory, there were far more explosives present than expected. That's what went wrong. There was more and therefore the secondary explosion was much larger than was calculated. That's why it went wrong. That has not happened before and has not happened after that. It's terrible that it happened, but that's the reality. This is about the intelligence assumption. Eventually, there was more. Until the kite takes off, the intelligence is collected, but this was wrong. That's what made the explosion much bigger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u49	We don't have to talk about how such a process generally goes; I know that. What matters here is what happened there. If you say 'I know it went well in the run-up to that' then that means that you, as a minister, know all the information that was the basis of the opinions on which that model was also completed. We understand that the Netherlands does not have access to that information. So you don't know if that information was properly used. The Americans or the Iraqis flew around there every time with their drones, which would make you think you can see clearly how much mobility there is and how many people live there. You don't know that, so you can keep repeating what you do know. What I mean to say is that we should not be told in three months' time: 'Oh indeed, we have made a different choice in information'. By the way, in everything I say, I assume that people with good intentions have done their job. So every time I get the answer "people are doing it right," it gets annoying, because that's what I'm assuming. But you don't know that at all. So if you say here 'it all went well' and in three months a report will come out that certain information has not been properly processed, then we do have a problem. Do you understand why I think it's so important that you say that carefully? So you'd better say: "We don't know that piece, no matter how annoying, we may have to do it differently in the future; we know the second piece, of the red card holder and how the kite has done its job." So you do not know what risks have been taken by which information or not to involve in the whole?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u50	I agree with Mrs Belhaj that we do not know what the intelligence was. We know the outcome of the intelligence process. That's what the red card holder gets presented. The red card holder we are, so to speak. He's sitting there on our behalf. The red card holder will be presented with the outcome of that intelligence process. He can also ask questions about it and then you have to trust that that's good, because that's how it works in the intelligence community. We'll have to trust that that's okay. That red card holder is there; I don't mean in the sense that I know that. The red card holder is sitting in front of us and must rely on the intelligence gathered by those thirteen countries until then. Mr Eichelsheim explained yesterday that he also asked how old the information was and so on. Then that process goes on, eventually until the moment the kite starts flying. If you have that schedule in mind, you've seen it. So that's what we know. Then we have to trust that it is. In a coalition, you have to start from the results, from sharing the process, from asking questions, as we do here, and then you have to make a decision. Eventually, there turned out to be a lot more bomb material. That's what didn't go well in assuming the secondary explosion. Mitigation measures have been taken, so the target was reachable, if you did it in the night, with a different type of explosive. Then you can look at other mitigating measures. But in the end there turned out to be a lot more material. Now, if you look at that recommendation in the 15-6 report, what does it focus on? I think this is an important recommendation that was there myself. Then it actually focuses on the fact that there was a wrong assumption and that in the risk mitigation you have to look at that again in the future. You need to look more specifically at what to do. That is how it sticks together; that is also what we must rely on as a country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u51	That's not exactly what it says. What it says is that the Air Force Commander says, if you don't know how much ammunition is present in an ammunition depot, you can't really say much about the estimate that certain civilian casualties would fall. That's one. Then experts look at it, which then take mitigating measures, but the basis remains the same, namely: you don't know how much ammunition there is. So you can say: they made a wrong assumption. No, they've taken an extraordinary risk making assumptions next to a residential area. It's probably that combination why things went so wrong with Hawija. I would like you also to acknowledge that this composition of not knowing and making assumptions is indeed not an exact science besides a residential neighborhood afterwards was not CDE 5 and high risk, but irresponsible and therefore we should never do so again, but be even more careful. I'd like to hear that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u52	Mr. Chairman. It was CDE 5 low risk. It's good to remove that ambiguity. It fell into that category. At high risk, the assumption would be that civilian casualties would occur. It was low risk and with the mitigation measures there would be no civilian casualties. That is an important point to make. I also saw it in the press, but it was 5-low and that's why we could fly and the mitigating measures would not cause civilian casualties. But that assumption was wrong, that's clear. That has not happened before and has not been done a number of times thereafter. That's why so many victims have been killed. That is why the process needs to be even more careful. We need to look at that much more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u53	We all agree on a number of principles: 1. care and 2. transparency. When we look at the secondary explosion, which is the result of our weapons deployment, the Minister indicates that it is based on an assumption. But an assumption must also be based on something. In the context of transparency and care, I would like to ask the Minister on which the assumption was based that there were few explosives so that there would be no civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u54	It is based on the intelligence work done by the intelligence community. There are all kinds of resources and people involved. They fly over and sometimes drones are involved. It'll be analyzed for a while. Therefore, as you see from the pieces, it took so long before the puzzle was laid. Then it was said that this target could be on the list. For the secondary explosions, a group of experts looks even better at how to mitigate the risks. That's how it's done. So it's just intelligence work and the assumptions are based on the intelligence work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u55	That's exactly the point I want to make. There were four CIA agents in the field, of which at least one of them now states afterwards that, when they look at the situation on the basis of their assumptions, civilian casualties could occur. At some point in that process, there's information at the red card holder. In the context of transparency, I would like to ask whether the Minister is prepared to share the information that was present at the time at the red card holder, whether or not it is confidential, so that we do not have to establish it afterwards and we do not have to hold another debate on this subject again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u56	You'll have the floor in a moment, Minister. But on the list: Mr Kerstens, Mr Voordewind, Mr Stoffer, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Wassenberg, Mrs Karabulut. Mr Kerstens will be able to join us later, but go ahead first, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u57	I was confused, Mr. Chairman. The answer to Mr Kuzu is: intelligence information can never be shared. We can't share that. And if it does, we have separate procedures in this Chamber, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u58	This actually brings us to a point where we repeat this debate over and over again. Information available, whether confidential or not, may not be shared with the Chamber. Next, information may come out via another line and we have another debate on it. I indicated at the beginning that everyone agrees that we consider transparency and care to be important. To go through that process once and for all, it would be a good thing to have the information that the red card holder had at the time, so that we can check whether our arms deployment was risky and civilian casualties could occur or not. So again, I urge the Minister. I understand all the procedures, but I do not want to get into another situation which means that we have to conclude afterwards "well, that piece of information was actually there, that we were not allowed to share then and at a later point there was an active journalist who was able to obtain this information," and that we have another debate. Why isn't the Minister willing to share that information? I think that makes her life easier, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u59	Information cannot be shared, may not be shared. We also have other procedures in this Chamber when it comes to information for various other complex situations. Information cannot be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u60	In my contribution, I have expressed my annoyance at a number of wordings that have been chosen, including in the written answer to questions. There were vague terms that don't really belong to a minister who says he wants to be champion of transparency. One of them just grabbed the minister's head. That was about the story that another country would have refused to bomb the bomb factory in Hawija because of the major risks of civilian casualties. The Minister explains and says: I mean, the DOD doesn't know. That explanation sounded to me more like: I don't want to know either. By the way, it seems transparent to write that down. But can the Minister imagine that we in the Chamber would like to know precisely because that reason is probably in the high risk of civilian casualties, which is a very large part of the debate here? So if the Minister wants to be so transparent to the Chamber, she should at least do her best to find out if there has been a country that has refused to bomb because of that great risk of civilian casualties?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u61	I didn't see you when I answered the question. But you did hear it, so I hear. I said, "I don't know." But we don't make any statements either. We in the Netherlands, as I have said, do not comment on whether or not we have done something, or what other countries have done or have not done. That is up to the countries themselves; they must do so themselves. Nor do we want another country to say anything about what we do or what we refuse to do. But I said that countries, including the Netherlands, also refuse to attack. We, too, refuse to attack. But we do not share this with other countries either. So that's why we don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u62	I'm going to ask a follow-up question about that. Of course, we hear very often that in the international coalition, which fights against ISIS, for example, mutual trust is extremely important, and that communication between them is extremely important. There's something I can't reach with my head. We are talking about one of those partners in the same coalition who is in this difficult battle. If one of those partners you trust at the top, who you also take seriously, I'm gonna assume that you shouldn't, that bombing, that's too big a risk, that mutual trust means that you want to know about each other, that you share that with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u63	Mr. Kerstens makes an assumption. I just don't know if it is. And you're acting like you do, but I don't know, so that's what I can tell you. I hear Mr Kerstens saying: you do not want to know. He says it outside the microphone, so I don't really have to go into it either, I guess. But that's not true. This is gonna work differently. As countries, we decide for ourselves what we do, whether we want to take advantage of an objective. We are only grasping an objective, and we must do so very carefully if everything shows that there will be zero civilian casualties. That's how we do it. We must be convinced of our own work, of the professionalism of our people. That's what we're supposed to be on together. It should not add anything for all of us, because we must assume that our people have done their job well. That's their professionalism. Tragically, there was more material, which I said in the direction of Mrs Belhaj, because of the intelligence work. But that doesn't affect the other, because our people, our red card holder, our legal advisor, have to judge that for themselves. And finally the kite, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u64	Mr Voordewind and then Mr Stoffer. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Wassenberg and then Mrs Karabulut. The Lord of Ojik, too? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u65	I have a question for the Minister about the intelligence the CIA has gathered at some point. That information did not come out until afterwards, but apparently it was also reported in advance in the process of targeting. I see the Minister nodding. My question to the Minister is: why does this potentially crucial information, which might have prevented this disaster, not reach the red card holder, so that he could have taken this into account in his decision to bomb or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u66	I don't know if it wasn't in the package. The intelligence package is also based on what people see on the ground, on flying over, as I just said, and on drones. We have to assume that it is a result of a thorough analysis, as we normally work in the Netherlands when we look at something. Then at some point there is an outcome. That outcome should question the red card holder and assess it with our legal adviser. I don't know what's in there. I know the outcome has been considered sufficient by our red card holder to say that there are zero civilian casualties if you take mitigation measures. In the end, that's what's important. As you are no doubt aware, intelligence cooperation generally means that we must rely on the professionalism and quality of the operators, of the people working there. We cannot say that, but the outcome was sufficient for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u67	That information from the CIA turned out to be crucial. That's not the least intelligence, you'd think. They warned of what we had not anticipated, namely that secondary blast, that explosion. Now it is always said here that it is not higher mathematics, but it has been explained to me that the collateral damage estimate is indeed a calculation model. Through this math model they decide which weapons to use, what blast you get and how big the circle is with damage. Only, we have learned that that second blast is not included in the process. Let me see what we can learn. Wouldn't it have been crucial if those CIA people could get that information out there? They warned us about that second blast. If the collateral damage estimate had been open to consider this aspect, perhaps our red card holder would have had the right calculations. Now, at the last moment, only in Qatar, the second blast has been taken into account, but it is no longer included in the calculation models. So those circles had already been drawn. At that time we only took small mitigating measures, namely flying at night and perhaps lighter weapons, but that second blast was not included in the calculation model. Isn't that a mistake in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u68	No, Mr. Chairman. I agree with Mr Voordewind that we need to learn things. But, it's two different things. There is indeed a clean CDE made in advance. That sounds very technical. Yesterday it was also said in the briefing that this seems very cold. I thought Mr Ducheine also used the same term in the article in De Volkskrant. But that's the math model. That's what happens in America. In addition, you have in Qatar the people, experts, who themselves, based on the assessment of the building et cetera and based on what they know, look at what the secondary explosion will be. These are both involved. This is also part of risk mitigation. Those two things go together. That second part showed that the explosion was much larger. So what needs to be learned here is that the risk assessment needs to be done even better. That's what we need to learn here. But even after that, our red card holder can say something again, until it's flown. So the first thing is the CDE with the intelligence. He can ask questions about that in the meeting. Then it becomes a target and then once again is specifically zoomed in on the target and secondary explosions. Of course, it's terrible that there was a lot more bomb material in here. Of course, that's where this went wrong. It was before and after that it didn't happen. We still have to rely on intelligence in that community.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u69	The wretched thing about the whole situation is, of course, that we apparently had that intelligence through the CIA agents, even in advance. They just couldn't be taken into account in the collateral damage estimate, because that's not in the calculation model there. They had to be considered at a later stage, in Qatar. Then the circles are only not made via that calculation model, as would be the case if they had been made before. Of course, I'm not a defense expert at all, but if I put it all side by side, my point is: why don't we consider that earlier? That was also a point that came out of the letters yesterday. Why don't we take that into account before the trial? If we had taken that into account, including the comments and the analysis already made by the CIA, those circles would probably have been a lot wider. Then perhaps it had come to the conclusion that it was completely irresponsible, because we knew that those private homes were 200 metres away. My question is why that wasn't taken into account in that estimate earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u70	I asked because I couldn't find it so soon. What is in the documents is that these sources point to the potential of civilian casualties. In the preliminary phase, that makes sense. They should. They have to take that into account. That's the intelligence work. They need to see what's going on. What are the risks? All that needs to be looked at. After that, you only accept that such a target is on the list. It doesn't say that the CIA said that by definition civilian casualties would occur, but you have to look at it. That is, moreover, the complexity of intelligence work, which is a good thing for us to realize. You try to collect in all kinds of different ways the best information you can have at the time. You put that together and then you question each other critically. At some point, you tell each other that that's enough. That also happens given the situation in which you are sitting: the hardcore war against ISIS, the fact that such a bomb factory could cause an enormous amount of extra deaths, civilian casualties, in Iraq, but also that the coalition could attack, or the Iraqi army. All of that could happen. In the end, that's what you're for. You collect information about that in the best possible ways. That's what happened here, with human resources and with other types of sources. At some point, that's what it is. Then a decision has to be made. Here it has been carefully decided that the target was attackable, that it was not 5-high, but 5-low. If it was 5-high, civilian casualties would have occurred, and 5-low wouldn't. That's what it is. Looking to the future, you have to be even more careful in the assessments. That is the nature of intelligence work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u71	My question is that I want to focus on what the learning capacity has been. Let me be quite clear that after the Minister's answer, I have made it clear that Hawija has really had a good assessment. The assumption turned out to be only different, and therefore the outcome was terrible. Suppose, somewhere in the future, we would have exactly the same situation as in Hawija. If you applied that calculation, would it be 5-high or would it still be 5-low? Does that still need to be looked at with an expert eye? In other words, is the learning process that immediately comes out of those calculations that you would have to take even more measures at 5-high or shouldn't do it, or is it different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u72	That was also said yesterday: if we had known it had been 5-high, we would not have done it. I understand your question. If that comes out with all the information you have, and you can't take any mitigating measures, then that's the question of how to prevent civilian casualties, then we shouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u73	My question is even sharper. Suppose you have exactly the same situation as Hawija in the next few years, and you're going to make those calculations. Is that what these calculations are for? Five-high?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u74	I don't think so, but I'll think about it. The risk in the CDE is the model. The experts will look much more closely at these risks. If I think about it this way, it could lead to us saying, no, this cannot be mitigated. I think that's the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u75	So, let me get this straight, that calculation still comes out of 5-layer. But from the second range, which you put around it, comes: the risks here are so wide that you either have to mitigate further or simply can't do it without causing civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yeah, and then we wouldn't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u77	What can the Minister say about the targeting process as part of the targeting and weighing process?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u78	I understand the question, but I can't say much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u79	This is very strange, because we are talking, for example, about which aircraft we are using, about which weapons we are using and at what point of the target we want to hit. My question to the Minister is: has the Netherlands considered working with inert bombs, just as Israel does on the Gaza Strip? Those are concrete bombs that don't cause a secondary explosion. Hamas bomb factories are also located in residential areas in the Gaza Strip. There Israel uses inert bombs to prevent those secondary explosions and thereby prevent civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u80	Mrs Van Kooten asked me that question earlier, namely in the first debate that was held, and I replied that we did not consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u81	Then I'll go to Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u82	However, I would like to say a few words about transparency and the lessons to be learned. The minister says that this terrible damage and the civilian casualties in Hawija are caused by those secondary explosions. There were more explosives than we had estimated. The Minister also says: we have a period before and a period after Hawija. Before Hawija it didn't actually happen, but after Hawija it didn't happen that there was so much damage from secondary explosions. That's not the whole story. We read in the newspaper that the procedure changed in September of the same year 2015 when it came to bombing bomb factories of ISIS in populated areas. That procedure changed on 25 September. The Minister knew that when we discussed this last November. The minister knew that the procedure had changed, because the Netherlands was active in Iraq until 2018, where you also have the red card holder. So the Netherlands knew. But the Minister didn't share that information with us. All she said was that we followed that procedure and that procedure was good. Over and over again, she said, "We followed the procedure." Why didn't the Minister say to us at the time: those procedures were changed four years ago, because things went so wrong in Hawija? That is also a form of transparency, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u83	That's two different things. What is the essence of our work? You learn from the last one all the time. Those procedures have indeed changed. By the way, I did say something about that; I just couldn't make it public. In general, I said that there were recommendations in reports and that those recommendations were incorporated and incorporated into the work. Our coalition people went to work with that. I was not allowed to make the report public in your direction, but I did say something about it. I knew it, and I told you. Then the essence of military work. You operate as a soldier in an unpredictable world. You never know exactly what's going on. I have immense admiration for our men and women who constantly adapt to other situations in their fight against ISIS. The essence of our work is that you are constantly learning from the day before. You always have to adapt to stay safe in the end. That is the essence of our work. Our military is a constantly learning organization. There's no other way. In the end, we can only be good with all the unpredictability that exists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u84	The military is a constantly learning organisation, but so is the Lower House. The Minister says: at that time, November 5th, I knew that the procedures had changed, but yes, I could not tell you, so I just say again and again 'the procedures were good and everything went by the book'. That's what I just said in my contribution: the surgery was successful, the patient died. But the Minister can't say with dry eyes: I informed the Chamber well by simply stressing that the procedures were good, while I knew the Minister was different. We in the Chamber didn't know that at the time. Why didn't the Minister say in less cryptic terms: something has changed and I may not be able to indicate what at the moment? By the way, the Netherlands had been out of Iraq for over a year at that time. That mission was already completely finished. I am therefore left with the question: why did the Minister hide behind the procedures, over and over again, when she knew and we did not know, and that is the difference between those procedures that had changed as a result of Hawija? Probably there were procedures to estimate what secondary explosions are due to the explosives that are present there. Why wasn't that information shared with the Chamber at the time? Why did the Minister just say: I know something you don't know, she didn't say, that she thought so, and the proper procedures have been followed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u85	That's two different things. Mr Wassenberg says two different things. First of all, it went well. That's what I said, and I'm still standing for it. The trial went well. That was said in the Chamber. Some people didn't know, but in the end our people did their job well. That's different than not learning from it. I could not make it public, but I did say in one of the debates: recommendations have been made because we have learned from what has happened here. I just couldn't make those recommendations public, because they were in that 15-6 report. But I did say that there has been learning and that recommendations have been made, including in the debates with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u86	Making recommendations is something other than changing a procedure as a result of a bombardment that went sideways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u87	That is the way Mr Wassenberg says it. I say that recommendations have indeed been made, that they have been taken over and that we must continue to learn again and again, because in the end no one wants civilian casualties to be caused by the air weapon anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u88	Mrs Karabulut and then Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u89	It is dramatic that the Minister withheld all the clues, all the information she had when she told us in November that the Netherlands would never accept a bombing that would lead to civilian casualties. There were clues from the CIA, there were informants. The minister also suggested that she knew how many explosives there were. We didn't know there were more explosives, as it turns out. So the intel wasn't okay. The Minister has misinformed us and the result is equally well known. I would like to ask the Minister what her trust is based on in the information she assumes. In fact, it is not at all able to assess whether this bombing is leading to civilian casualties or not, because we now know the result. What does she trust?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u90	I didn't withhold anything from the information that was there. In the normal intelligence work this information is not provided, I have just replied. That's the nature of the intelligence work. That CIA could very well be one of the components of the intelligence package on the basis of which our red card holder has decided. Then what am I basing my trust on? To the long-term cooperation we have with each other, to the fact that we share intelligence with reliable countries if it is allowed to eventually arrive at a security situation in an area. In the end, we must stand for the protection of our men and women. That's what I'm based on. I base myself on the quality of services, the quality of our services, which is also internationally recognised. You make a package like that with each other. Doesn't anything ever go wrong? Something could always go wrong. It's possible. We are faced with that in the end, but I really base myself on the quality of all these people who have done so for a long time until this attack and also after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u91	The question, of course, is not just: how are we going to do next? The question is: what is the Minister's answer to the question that, on the basis of insufficient information, the Minister did what he did on the basis of incorrect estimates and on the basis of disinformation to the Chamber? The problem is that we have asked for this on several occasions and that it is indeed available, by means of journalists. I do not have the impression that the Minister now understands what we want as a Chamber, namely to get the information we are asking for, so that we can judge it ourselves, just as the Minister should be able to do. And when I ask the Minister if she knows that another country has refused to do so, it is crucial; they will have their reasons, she says: no, it is not known to us. But, Minister, what have you done to become aware of that? Are you prepared to find out which country that was, why that was and to give us that information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u92	I have just answered this question in the direction of Mr Kerstens. I do not really have anything to add to the answer I gave at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u93	After all the debacle, after all the lies and the disinformation, I ask for transparency. It's the first example I'm asking for. I ask the Minister to take action, to gather information and to send it to us. And the Minister refuses. What does this say about the future? Will the Minister also explain to me here where it went wrong in Mosul, where the Netherlands bombed on the basis of intelligence from the allies? I don't know what that was like. Two homes were bombed there because the coalition assumed that there was an IS house, which was long gone. Four people were killed, the man of whom, after years of searching for the truth, managed to find out the truth with the help of the New York Times. That gentleman still doesn't know why his home was bombed and his family was killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u94	I simply have a very different interpretation of what Mrs Karabulut has just said when it comes to the answers I gave Mr Kerstens. I have indicated that we cannot do so because we are not dealing with it and that countries themselves are dealing with it. Nor do we want countries to disclose our information, I have also said. I do not know if Mrs Karabulut was there at the time, but I just indicated that. When it comes to Mosul, we have paid great attention to this in the first debate. That was just wrong information. That's clear. So I don't have anything to add to that either. I've been looking up a point. The fact that recommendations have been made, I have indeed reported to the Chamber. I could not make it public, but I indicated in the debate on 18 December that the AR 15-6 report also contained internal recommendations for future arms deployment. I indicated in the letter of 25 November that "both the Ministry of Defence and the anti-ISIS coalition continuously evaluate the (air) action, through the extensive evaluation and improvement mechanisms that apply. It systematically keeps track of the consequences of military intervention and of what can be learned from it. Both the Ministry of Defence and CENTCOM regularly make recommendations aimed at the future." I've just paraphrased that, but I think it's good to have literally said the sentences I wrote at the time here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u95	My question is about what the Minister's conclusion is from this whole discussion. I am convinced, or I am sure, that the procedures have been properly followed. I think so. I am also sure that everyone has done their job to the best of their consciences and has done their job professionally. I also believe that we are all very sorry about what happened. The Minister spoke of a nightmare, also for the kites and for the Ministry of Defence. I am thinking in particular of the nightmare of all those people who have fallen victim there in Hawija. What's the conclusion? Could you say, with everything we know, that this target for bombardment should not and should not have been approved? Is that the conclusion we can draw after everything we know now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u96	If we had known, then, that is the condition that there was more bomb material there, we would not have accepted this objective, because it would have ended up in the 5-high category, in all likelihood. Or additional mitigation measures should have been taken, but that is not likely given the size, size. Then we wouldn't have accepted that goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u97	Quite apart from the question of whether it had ended up in that 5-high category and, apart from the question of whether we could have taken additional mitigation measures, I would like to conclude, for the sake of clarity, that what we know is that this bombing, this bombing target, should not have been approved. Well, we can say that, can't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u98	Then Mr Van Ojik says something else, because that is now looking, afterwards. I don't want to make any misunderstandings about this. The approval at that time has gone well. That went well. I agree with everyone who said that in this Chamber. I think you said that yourself, but I'm not sure. On the basis of everything there was, measures have been taken, which were not enough in the end. If you look now, the answer is yes, because you would have considered it. At that point it went well, and now the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u99	For the sake of clarity, I have indeed said that I firmly believe that all procedures have been properly followed and that there has been a professional and integrity check. I myself have spoken in my speech about the importance I see in a generous recognition of the fact that things have gone wrong. Hence my question to the Minister. Can we, with what we know now, of course, say with what we know now; that is true for all of us: this should not have happened like this? The Minister says yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u100	Yes. Mr President, I am going to take a look for a moment, because I am actually in need of block 2 on information during the F16 mission, but I think we have already discussed a lot of that through the interruptions. I'll see if there's a lot of extra questions left. One of the questions was that of Mr Van Ojik we were just talking about. Perhaps Mr Van Otterloo's question in the second block on information provision during the F16 mission. He had another question about that. We haven't dealt with them so much. It's about the Freedom of Information Act. You asked: can it really not be that under the Freedom of Information Act documents are made public that are not shared between allies? As Dutch, we had the pieces. I think it's good to know. We just weren't allowed to make them public. So most of the pieces released by the Americans were already known to us. We knew them. We had received the initial CENTCOM report, but also the After Action Report 15-6. I have also informed your Chamber of the results. But since they're American classified, I couldn't reveal them unilaterally myself. I couldn't do that. So I had to ask. Some of the annexes and exibits released with the Freedom of Information Act were also new to us. We have all steered them in your direction. They give a detailed insight into the preparation, so we could have the debate we just had. I've also reported the conclusions to the Chamber. When I look at dealing with our allies, I want to see the future more clearly what information can and cannot be shared. A number of members of your Chamber spoke about this as well. Mrs Belhaj spoke about this, and so did Mr Van Helvert. If you listen to it carefully, everyone actually calls it, in a different way. Mrs Belhaj had also asked for this information in this round. You know, Mrs Belhaj, that I have always said that we are also dependent on CENTCOM's information for the investigation. If I got the information from CENTCOM, I've always shared it with you openly. That is one of the reasons why I indicated at the beginning of my speech that I regret that the information I shared with you on the 70 in the December statistics on the basis of CENTCOM's information was not good. I have just pointed out to my American colleague and colleague the importance of correct and careful information, both personally and also in my letter. Let me take a look at what has been and has not been the case, Mr President. Perhaps Mr Baudet's question remains. He took the view that the Chamber was informed on 24 March of the fact that 70 civilian casualties were known. That statement he took is actually not correct, because on 24 March no other information about the 70 was distributed. We just didn't know that CENTCOM counted the number of 70 from June 2017. I had to point that in your direction on March 24th. Mr. Chairman. I have just responded to the recommendations of the After Action Report 15-6. Then Mrs Belhaj had the question of whether there were multiple attacks involving possible civilian casualties due to the use of Dutch weapons. In addition to the four cases that I already informed the Chamber about in April 2018, no other cases are known to the Ministry of Defence where there may be civilian casualties as a result of Dutch arms deployment. Until recently, the Dutch Ministry of Defence never gave a ruling on whether or not there was involvement. I have recently taken a new step in this by indicating that there was no Dutch involvement. Maybe you've seen that, too. We have said that the Ministry and I want to clarify when we are asked by third parties, such as the media or NGOs, for attacks mentioned in the monthly review of CENTCOM. I am talking about attacks in which the investigation into potential civilian casualties has been completed and where CENTCOM estimates that the attack "more likely than not" "was more likely than the term they used "civilian casualties" resulted. We have never answered these questions from NGOs or otherwise. Now, when such a question comes, we will always answer whether or not there is Dutch involvement. That's also important, so you know what happened or didn't happen. I think these are the points that should be addressed in the second block and not already in the first block, except perhaps the Public Prosecutor. I'll take a look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u101	I was thinking of Mr Voordewind, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u102	Mr. Voordewind can go first. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u103	He was before. He was right there. Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u104	I'm having second thoughts because the minister is now saying she's gonna go to the D.A.'s office. I have a specific question about the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u105	Then we'll wait and see, and then I'll go to Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u106	I was just waiting for the answer, because, of course, in my first term, I tried to make it very clear that I want to understand what the Minister really did to such a reliable ally. I feel like I've missed it, except for the announcement: I've contacted them. Or does the minister still come up with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yeah, that's the last block, 'cause that's about now. So that's what I got for the last block. This is the block of during the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u108	Yeah, there's a lot of confusion about those cubes today. I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u109	Mr President, I have correctly indicated the cubes, but yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u110	Do you have an order proposal, Mrs. Karabulut?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u111	If we're still in the past, I have one more question. Is the Minister going to tell us before they close this block about that protocol that would have prevented her and the Prime Minister from sharing information with the Chamber, even if they wanted to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u112	I did not understand that there was a specific question about that. I've heard you take a position. That is also what we discussed in the previous debate. There were agreements on the basis of which we shared information with anyone during the flight, during the operation. When we started flying again in 2018, I changed it after consulting your room. At that time, we reported on a weekly basis, including our weapons deployment. In the future, as you know, I want to do it differently, but that comes in the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u113	I thought you had an order question. You can come back to that in a moment, because Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u114	I can hear the Minister say something very special about the inert bombs. Sorry to get back to you on that. The Minister says: we have not considered it. But how is that possible when you weigh risks and throw bombs with an explosive charge at a bomb factory? If you don't throw inert bombs, you're gonna throw a bomb with an explosive charge. So you're actually throwing a bomb on a bomb, which causes a secondary explosion. I don't understand. Can the Minister explain that for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u115	I said that we did not consider what Israel had done. Because that was the question that was asked: about what Israel was doing normally. You have already asked this question in the first debate. In this particular mission, very careful attention has been paid to the deployment of weapons. That has been looked at very carefully. That's exactly checked, because we knew the target was risky and we had to look exactly. The weapon that should eventually lead to a limited effect has therefore been chosen very carefully. But because there was more bomb material there, it wasn't. But, as always, there is a very careful look at when you fly, as is always the case with the work.................................................................................................................................................................................... That is all I can say about it, because we never do that in public, because then others can also hear that information. Those are also the targets we're attacking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u116	I also remembered from the previous debate that the Minister did not want to answer the question of what kind of bombs were used. But now she's saying something new that's quite interesting in this story: so no thought has been given to using inert bombs. They have no explosive charge, which minimises the risk of a secondary explosion. So I don't quite understand why that hasn't been considered. I hope that the Minister will be able to deal with this more specifically. My first question was about the WOB request: why was that report not shared with the Chamber in November? The Minister did not answer that question properly. So I assume the Minister will come back to that in her next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u117	When it comes to weapons deployment, of course, I'm not the expert. Our people are the experts. What happens when you look at such a goal, I think was explained in the technical briefing yesterday. Then very specific and careful consideration is given to which weapon to choose, looking at the target and where it lies. There has also been talk of how the building works. So you need to know that very precisely. We're looking very closely at exact positions with weapons. They're looking at the limited cargo. A specific fuse setting has been looked at. Those are things that have all been explained. That's how it's supposed to go. Then you have the expectation, if you do so, that it will turn out that there will be no civilian casualties and that there will be no major secondary explosion. I trust my people have done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u118	That's still not the answer I wanted. I hope the Minister will come back to my earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u119	You mean the one about the WOB request, Mrs. Van Kooten? Yeah, about the WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u120	Yeah, sorry, I'm just thinking. Let me see if I have that question. I was ready for the DA's office now, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u121	But there was a question left, I understand. Otherwise, you can come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u122	I think I'll do it later, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u123	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u124	The Minister says again that she could not have informed us because of security policy. That's what we've been asking about. The Prime Minister mentioned a protocol. Then we have received the procedure that is in place: minimize/report civilian casualties. It is true that there is no obstacle to informing the Chamber that it will be examined on a case-by-case basis. Is there another procedure? Are there any other rules we can receive? Or is it just not quite properly informed here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u125	No. Working arrangements have simply been made with each other that we would not say anything about this because of the security of people, operational security and state security. As you know, we changed that policy in 2018. Then we flew and reported weekly on the arms deployment, including the one in Iraq.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u126	Apologies, but it says here that your documents are simply literally: "At each case, it is considered whether the House of Representatives should be informed." That's the deal about informing the Chamber about civilian deaths.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u127	Oh, is it about information? I thought it was about gun deployment and flying. We made new agreements in December on informing citizens about their deaths. I shall immediately inform you that it never happens, either in public or in confidence, if we cannot say anything about it in public, so that you are immediately aware of it. That's the deal we made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u128	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u129	Unfortunately, then, I have to conclude that what the Minister mentioned at the end of November, namely 'the general policy was that nothing could have been said', was simply wrong and that we were wrongly informed on that point, and that there was no reason for the Prime Minister, this minister and her predecessors not to inform us about civilian casualties, but simply did not want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u130	I really must throw that far from me. The policy was, and the working arrangements were, that we wouldn't do that when we flew. In December I made another appointment with you, namely that if I cannot inform you publicly, I will inform you confidentially and that I will discuss this with the Registry in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u131	Last point, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u132	With all due respect, this is pure disinformation. These are the working arrangements, of course, we have asked several times about this, which we have finally received. If the Minister says that other working arrangements were now in place over that period, I would like to receive them now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u133	I'm sticking to my answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u134	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u135	I had arrived at the state's attorney's office following the questions asked by Mrs Belhaj. She asked, "Who is investigating what and what exactly did the D.A. investigate?" At first, the Department of Defense conducts its own investigation. Defence's investigation always focuses on the legality of the commitment under humanitarian war law and on any procedural errors. As far as legality is concerned, the Geneva Conventions, the associated additional protocols and the customary law are primarily examined. The arms deployment is then assessed in detail. On the basis of the information available in advance, it will be considered whether the objective could rightly be regarded as a legitimate objective and whether the proportionality weighting has been made in the right way. They will also check whether indicators were present during the weapons deployment to break down the attack, which can be done until the last minute. That research is carried out by the legal, military, policy experts of the Ministry of Defence. The Public Prosecutor's Office may, on the basis of the information it receives from the Defence Department, decide to initiate further investigations, for example in the form of a fact-finding investigation or a criminal investigation. That is also indicated in the letter of 4 November 2019. Why didn't the DA investigate until months after the incident? That was one of the questions that followed. Each of our weapons deployments is subject to an after-action report. That's always shared with the Deputy District Attorney, a KMar employee working for the D.A.'s office. As reported in the letter of 25 November, it was already clear to the kites that the secondary explosions were much larger than expected during the deployment of weapons at Hawija. According to the after-action report, there was significant damage to various industrial buildings. However, that report did not mention any potential civilian casualties. After our Ministry of Defence's own investigation and the additional investigation into the targeting process, known as the AR 15-6 investigation of CENTCOM, showed that it was "probable," so plausible, that civilian casualties had occurred during the attack on Hawija, the D.A. was informed about this by the Ministry of Defence. The D.A.'s office decided to initiate a fact-finding investigation on its own. That is also up to them; we are not about that. In addition, this research was carried out in conjunction with "that's good to know "that the availability of witnesses was hampered by ongoing engagement and exercises abroad'. The match of the agendas is so this is about the time course.... was therefore also difficult. Because of this and because the D.A. could only start its own investigation after that after action report and the AR 15-6 investigation, it took much more time than regular investigations before the D.A. could start the investigation. Then there is Mr Kerstens' question, also about the prosecution. How early did the D.A.'s investigation actually suggest a little bit of that terminology? Of course, I'm not going to give a value judgment on that. The Public Prosecutor's Office is an independent institution. On the basis of the information available, an investigation of the facts was initiated and this ultimately did not give rise to any further investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u136	The minister tells us a lot, also about the things we could read in the letters. I asked that question for a reason. Do you think it makes sense for you to report to the D.A.'s office after nine months? There's a clear protocol between the DOD and the D.A.'s office. There's just nothing in there about what time you can take for it. There's something so intense going on. Those kites fly over it again and they think: I think something more has happened than just damage to buildings. We should assume somewhere that civilian casualties are likely to have also occurred. You don't know that formally yet, but then it's an extra reason, a kind of extra consciousness for the D.O.D. to think: we're gonna call the D.A.'s office, we're gonna report that preliminary report? The D.A. can then make the decision to launch a criminal investigation or a major investigation, and the D.O.D. will do so in parallel. Now it comes across as: something very violent has happened, the Defense Department quietly waits nine months and then six months. After fifteen months, people take testimonies and people are heard on the ground about what they saw and what happened, while a year before there was the Jewish case which is something different in context, but in which it was simply said: be quick if something like this happens. Is the Minister prepared to point out that in those nine months, the DOD should have done his own research, but that it should have reported this immediately to the D.A.'s office and that we should therefore make further arrangements to ensure that this happens as soon as possible, especially in cases of this kind?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u137	In itself, it is a justified question from Mrs Belhaj. Such a time lag seems but is also long. That's why I also said at the beginning that every weapon deployment we make, an after-action report is being prepared that is shared with an assistant prosecutor. So basically, the D.A.'s office is informed. That's the M.O. That report did not reveal any civilian casualties or potential civilian casualties. That was not until later in those reports, and that was said without delay. I'm not in charge of the D.A.'s investigation. It's up to them. In principle, they've been informed by that assistant officer. I do agree with you that it is a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u138	You're really limited as a MP because you can't interrupt indefinitely. Of course, it's up to the D.A. to decide whether or not to conduct a criminal investigation and, of course, I understand that those regular protocols are there. What I don't understand is that if the Defense Department flies above it and sees how much damage there is and hasn't yet been formally established that there are civilian casualties, then why Defense doesn't proactively say: we haven't yet been able to identify those civilian casualties, but we're telling you that there's a suspicion that this is going on, maybe it's wise for you to be able to make that assessment yourself. That's what this is about. Otherwise I have a motion for it in the second term anyway, because I think it is important to report it immediately, also for the kite and also for the red card holder. Otherwise you raise the suggestion that you wanted to sweep something under the carpet if you then say after fifteen months: we are not going to investigate it any further. I think that's a bad thing. If the process is so organized, I think you should agree with me that we should never want it this way again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u139	I agree with you. I'm trying to tell you how it works at first. There'll be an assistant district attorney present, that's that Kmar employee, some kind of advance post from the D.A.'s office. Apparently, he didn't see any reason for further investigation at the time. I also think it should have been much faster afterwards, but he didn't see any reason for it at the time. That's the first step you've taken. So it didn't happen until the investigation was completed and when we had that 15-6. The A.D.A.'s first assessment of the weapons deployment that took place there. Then the third block, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u140	Now that we have the whole block on information to the Chamber, I do have one point towards the Minister. This is actually also about the provision of information to the Chamber, so let us separate ourselves from that compensation, and you will come back to that in the third block. This is about the provision of information. The answer to question 76 states that if people think they should be eligible for compensation, they should, in the first instance, refer it to Baghdad. The protocol, which was made in 2014, when we started the mission, states: no, we have to make a compensation arrangement à la Afghanistan. If there are victims and the Netherlands are involved, we are going to make a proper compensation scheme. Is there light in there? Maybe I don't understand. At first, I thought you were referring to Baghdad. But in the protocol that has now become public, I read: no, it is a responsibility for the Netherlands; we simply need to make a proper compensation scheme for this. So what's true now? I see two different...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u141	I think I have this in the last block, which is about the provision of information to the Chamber. We do this work and are there at the invitation of Iraq. So it is legal, as we have exchanged in all the debates, that we should first report to the Iraqi government. That is the case at first, and it is also the case in all cases. A protocol was indeed drawn up in 2014 following what happened in Afghanistan. I have said that we are responsible for this and that we are prepared to make a settlement. That's what we're doing right now. It's important that you could make an arrangement. But legally, one has to be in Iraq. We've been over that a few times in AO's. I also mentioned in a coalition context whether we can make a point of contact so that it is easier to call in. I believe that's what you asked at the time. Now, of course, it is still a very complicated, uncertain situation there. You're a foreign spokesperson, so you know that the composition of the government isn't that smooth either. So it's a complicated situation. But that's how it is. In any case, this has not been carried out since 2014. I picked it up after consulting you, and I'm looking at it now, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u142	I have seen what the Minister is doing now, only in replying to the questions, it will come back twice. There is a reference to Baghdad. It says here, in the protocol: The Dutch State can be addressed on the basis of the civil liability. In other words, it says here: if the Netherlands is involved in causing civilian casualties, then the Netherlands can be held legally liable. I have not seen any of these texts in the reply. It would have been nice if the answer also referred to the protocol we have here, because that was already known at the time. So we would have had more complete information, then we would have had the whole package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u143	I'll take a look at the answers later. I'm at the third block now, providing information after the end of the mission. It all got mixed up, but there are still a few questions about that. The first question is from Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kerstens and Mr Voordewind, who asked how hard I tried to find out what information was known to CENTCOM. A question from Mr Van Ojik was: did I punch my fist on the table? Mr President, I have addressed myself to the highest level; that is the US Secretary of Defense. Apparently, the assumption was that I didn't speak to the U.S. Secretary of Defense myself. That's not right. I spoke to the American minister personally. I'd like to mention that, because Mr. Van Ojik apparently didn't think so. But I did speak with the Minister of Defence, in two instances: NATO and the Munich Security Conference. I addressed him to the letter I wrote at the request of the Chamber in December, and I said: it is extremely important that we know this well and that there will be a good answer. That's the highest thing you can do as a minister, addressing your colleague. So I certainly put the proverbial fist on the table, first by sending the letter, but also by doing something with it. So he was aware of that. We did not know at that time that there was also a legal procedure on the Freedom of Information Act documents. I have therefore asked for the information to be verified and I have sent all kinds of people to indicate it in clear terms, up to the DG policy that has been there, even before the covid period, i.e. mid March. The answer is as it is, but I did do my best. That is why I also said: I hate that a few weeks later, on the basis of the Freedom of Information Act, documents are being made public that I had asked for. With respect to the journalists, I said in my introduction, but it is very annoying. Why, then, was Mr Van Ojik's question? Now, for the sake of fairness, he has more experience in diplomacy than I have, but I have made no mistake about it in the direction of my American colleague that it has been given great importance, and I have also emphasised it in good time and well. It's not for nothing that I've written and spoken to him. I have to accept that this is the answer, but I have quite some views on it, as you can see from the way in which I say it, and I still remain within the diplomatic limits. But I simply cannot release their classified documents without the permission of an ally. You can count on it, because that was your follow-up question, but the physical meetings are just as much more complicated as they are here that I am going to address him on the next occasion that I see him again. That's what I can do about it. Mrs Belhaj had the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u144	On the previous point, Mr. Van Ojik? Yeah? Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u145	To take away a misunderstanding, I do know that the minister has spoken with her American colleague. That was if I got it right before the answer came.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u146	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u147	I did indeed read it, in answers to the questions at the Munich Security Conference, I thought. But then, when you get an answer like that, I come to the question of how seriously the Americans actually take us. We're an ally. We're doing this whole risky and important mission together. The Dutch Parliament has been calling for certain information for years. The Minister writes a letter at Parliament's insistence to get that information. She gets downright a no and a few weeks later journalists, luckily, get a yes on the basis of some American law. I would say: do you really take me seriously? That's what I miss about this minister. She says she hates it and hates it, too, but pick up the phone and say, "That's not how we hang out."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u148	I spoke to the Minister in advance to get the answers. If I had seen the Minister, I think this is something to say in person, perhaps I would have said it in the same tone as Mr Van Ojik. However, through the usual channels, I have indicated that I really regret the way in which the answer was given, as well as the fact that not all the questions were answered and that information was not released which was released later. You can count on me to let you know. But you also know that we have diplomats to do that. I did it at the highest official level. And I did it at CDS level; the Commander of the Armed Forces was after it, too. In all the ways we had, we indicated how important it was to us. I will continue to do so in the future. I am also very sorry that it happened this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u149	You can ask to make the report public or you can ask to release the report sanised. In what way has this question been addressed at the different levels? Has the same question been asked at all levels or has it been varied?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u150	We've done that in different ways. We have initially used the way you requested, namely to make the report, which is classified as American, public. That was also the question raised by Mrs Belhaj and by Mrs Karabulut, by the way. We took this seriously, too. That is what we asked for at first. We also asked about sharing, and if it could be otherwise and if it could be confidential. It's been asked in all kinds of ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u151	But is there room for the future to agree on the availability of that sanitized, that sanitized information? Are there any agreements on this? Because apparently the Freedom of Information Act can do it. Surely it would be normal for us to receive this information as a parliament in the future, especially if we ask for it, and certainly if a Minister of Defense asks for it? To what extent did they respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u152	I would like to say a few words about these future agreements. We have to go back there with each other to do better and to see what we could and could not do in this type of case. I said in my introduction that I would very much like to make agreements prior to a mission about what we do or do not want, whether confidential or not, and at what time. That's what it's all about. But we need to start that conversation now. For next missions, we just need to get along better. I will come to the question about Article 100 letters and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u153	Before you do that, Mrs. Belhaj is ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u154	Still, on this part. The Minister says she did ask. But the reason why we indicated in the first period that it is particularly uncomfortable is the fact that such information eventually comes out through such a WOB request. Have you also called your American colleague now and in your own words, I don't know what you could say, made it clear that you won't take this? "I am the Dutch Minister of Defence. My Dutch parliament wants to know. I have serious debates because the Chamber needs more information. I'm just gonna release that report." You could have done that, couldn't you? Why don't you show them you're the one who's gonna make the call? I'm not talking about the classified information, I'm talking about the information that has now come out. You could have said, "I'm gonna bring it out, drag me into court." What's going on? I do not know what protocol is for that; we do not know that either. Maybe you can just tell us what agreements there are, because before we can look at the future, we need to know what these agreements are. Because apparently they can just negotiate with the Dutch Secretary of Defense, and I don't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u155	No. It is quite remarkable, of course, but the letter on behalf of my colleagues also said that there was another request under the Freedom of Information Act. Under legal pressure the AR 15-6 has been released. But we have stated that we find that highly remarkable and also very strange that we would not release it. But I can't change that now. For the future, that will have to be different. For the future, it really has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr President, I am sorry that I ran away again and that the microphone had to be cleaned again. I do enjoy it, by the way, thank you for that. But before we go to the future, there's something I want to say. The minister's gonna get over this pretty quick. Something's going on here. The press is getting very important information that the Chamber has been wanting for years. Something goes wrong, and you say, "I'm very sorry about that." Then I ask you: explain it to me, what agreements are underneath? Is it some kind of contract, did they threaten you, can you work with them again? What happened there? I think, as long as we don't know, there's no point in looking to the future, because we don't know how such a reliable ally can deal with a Secretary of Defense like that? You agree with me that we have to understand, don't you? You say, "I've done my best." Then I guess you did your best? Then how come we don't have that information and we finally have to read it in the paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u157	The U.S. WOB has been called upon to say so. Here in the Netherlands, of course, other documents are sometimes made public under the WOB, looking at legal pressure. But I find it quite remarkable that this is happening, and that it does not happen if we ask for it. That is a strange way of doing things; I fully agree with you. Why is that? Because it's American classified; that's what you see on that piece. Nor would we, as the Netherlands, want a Dutch classified operation to be made public by the Americans, by Trump. Neither do we. So those are the agreements we have: it is not allowed until the country itself says so. Those are the appointments you have. It is also important for the safety of our own people that we can continue to rely on the security agreements we have. What would happen if we had done it as in Mrs Belhaj's proposal? With normal, unclassified information, I would have done it that way. But what would happen in this case is that immediately the sharing of classified information would stop, immediately. That's what would happen. We'd never get classified information again. That's how intelligence works with each other. I cannot say much about these processes and procedures here, but that is what is happening. Sharing classified information will stop immediately. And we shouldn't want that. Because that also affects the safety of our people. That's the big problem that's in there. Even though you would like to go on sometimes, and I understand that very well; I would normally do the same. But that cannot be done, because we will immediately be on a list, and it will be said that we will no longer be sharing information with the Netherlands. That would really kill in the fight against ISIS, against everything we have now, against returners, et cetera. That's why I can't. So that's how it is. I can't make it any better either, because the safety of our people is paramount. As Secretary of Defense, I can never compromise that; none of us can. And that's what we need that intelligence information for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u158	On this point, I give the floor to Mr Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u159	Still, about the information coming through the Americans, the Freedom of Information Act. Has there been any contact between the Minister and her American colleague about whether the procedure was in progress or whether it had ended? Or was there a simultaneous information moment? How were you informed by the Americans that the trial was over or over?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u160	You mean the WOB request?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u161	Yes, the Freedom of Information Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u162	Yes, exactly, the Freedom of Information Act. We were informed at the same time as the journalists. I was not directly informed, but we were informed at official level that it went outside. It was also the agreement that we knew at the same time. By the way, we do that in the Netherlands. When a WOB request goes outside, it always goes first to the applicants and then to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u163	Interesting. You would say that the relationship with the Ministry is such that you might get the information sooner, but apparently there is an agreement that the Freedom of Information Act provides it simultaneously, or that at least the applicant gets it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u164	Yes. That is the case here in the Netherlands. So the effect is what's holding me back. The effect is the safety of our people. That means we can't do that. Just as we do not want our information to be made public by other countries, if we have classified it. Mr Van Ojik asked: what has the Minister actually done in the past six months to increase transparency? That was a question he asked. I have already discussed with your Chamber in previous debates that I believe that there is a need for a cultural change in the defence sector anyway. I have informed you in several letters of Parliament about the steps I am taking in terms of policy transparency. Sorry, Mr. Chairman, I thought you said something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u165	Mr Van Otterloo is too close. He forgets every once in a while that we need to keep our distance. Anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u166	I was thinking, what's this about? How am I gonna do this? The most important thing is that in my letter of 25 November I immediately introduced a new standard, to which we committed ourselves from that moment on. I think that's important to know. That new standard, which I referred to earlier, is that the Chamber will be informed as soon as possible if there is a suspicion of civilian casualties by the Dutch authorities under Article 100 and we are investigating it. That's really different from what happened in the past. If it is possible, it will be done publicly and if it cannot be done publicly, it will be done confidentially. As soon as we ourselves have an idea of what has happened and we have also been able to see that this may have been due to Dutch action, the Chamber will immediately receive this information. I know you prefer to have this in public, but that is a weighting at such a time. I can't judge that right now. This is a very concrete example of how I want to ensure that the Chamber, the Parliamentary Assembly, never has to wait so long for information on situations where commitment, however tragic and terrible, has gone wrong. So that new standard is already in place. We introduced it on November 25th. I have also worked on a procedure to properly record with the Chamber how to do that. For that we are in good consultation with your own Registry. There is now also a draft proposal. So I expect to be able to offer the Defence Committee a procedure soon. I don't know exactly how to do that, but so we can do this together. Then, with retroactive effect, I have disclosed the number of missions, the location, the type of target and the weapons deployment over the first deployment period at the level of detail of the Public Week Review Defence Operations 2018. I was right to say that we will continue to apply this level of transparency equally from the outset. I took care of that when we started flying for the second time in 2018. That was my own decision. This was really different from what ever happened, because we never did, the gun deployment. I will look into that in the future. In addition, I have recently decided that in future we will also answer questions from NGOs, media or your Chamber about a possible involvement of the Netherlands in specific attacks. By this I mean attacks where CENTCOM has already considered that it is indeed very likely or certain that civilian casualties have occurred. If there is a suspicion of Dutch involvement in such an attack, we will also indicate it when we were not involved. Well, that makes sense, too. We did that the other day when we had a question like that. There was a suspicion of involvement. We weren't involved. We made that public. I thought it was weird that we should do that in court, but not in public in your direction. I've also looked at the organization. Mr Van Ojik asked for this very comprehensively. That's what I've been looking at. We are also working on the learning capacity of the organization. That's really necessary. We are making the combination between the operational and political dimensions much stronger than before. We'll send for that, too. The top structure of the Defense Department has been adapted for this purpose. Policy and implementation have become equal. I myself have been committed to making that structure more similar to that of a more normal department than in the past. Mr Van Ojik will recognize that. This means that policies and implementation are now equivalent in our governing board and that this is also discussed differently. In one of the previous debates I also promised Mr Stoffer that he would do so. That's the deal. In addition, the culture needs to change. We have also taken steps to this end. There has to be a culture that doesn't look inside. I very much agree with Mrs Belhaj, who, if I understand correctly, said that transparency also increases external acceptance. That's what I've been saying. Of course, we have to consider the security issue on a daily basis and the justified call for transparency on the other hand, but we do not necessarily have to look inside. So I keep talking to the organization all the time to make these considerations. As far as I am concerned, this includes strict agreements and processes. We must take the human factor slowly, because, as you know, cultural trajectories sometimes run slowly. We are going one step at a time, but I really believe that there should also be a culture in which there is room to make mistakes. And not such big mistakes, but there has to be room to make mistakes that you learn from. That's what you need to communicate with each other about. It is a step-by-step approach, but a great deal has been done in recent months in this area, including by me. That's what we've been investing in. Then there is Mr Van Helvert's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u167	Your last question, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u168	This is not my last question, but I have a point of order. I do have that last question, by the way. My point of order concerns the following. In passing, the Minister said: we are going to see what we can offer as Defence in order to improve the information position of the Chamber. But, chairman, the House of Representatives itself deals with its own information position. That is why I would suggest that we, as the House of Representatives, under your leadership, first identify what information and what places we need. Then we'll put that down with the Secretary of Defense. I think that's the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u169	Mr President, that is up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u170	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u171	I made a commitment to your Chamber to look into our processes after consulting the members of your Chamber. I didn't say that in passing. Mr Van Ojik asked: what have you done in these past six months? This is one part of it, because that's what we agreed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u172	But Mrs Karabulut has a point. There is also a motion by Mr Omtzigt asking the Bureau to take a closer look at it. Of course, we do that as a Chamber, but also in consultation with the Ministry of the Interior. I can imagine that committees have separate thoughts on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u173	As you understand, I leave that entirely to you. In any case, I have kept my commitment to work on this, as we agreed. I have kept my promise, as I said. Mr Van Helvert asked if I understood the question correctly: if you look forward, could new agreements on transparency be laid down in Article 100 letters? Of course, I want to take a serious look at this from the part where I am responsible. I do so with the Foreign Affairs and BuHa-OS colleagues and sometimes with JenV's. That could very well be in line with the steps I am already taking and what I have just said to you in the context of transparency. I think that this can be done very well and that we can take the lessons learned, which have just been discussed here. Then the allowances and next of kin, Mr. Chairman. I think this, except for "other" is the last block. As you know, it is also mentioned in the documents "Just now an interdepartmental working group is looking at it. How far is the action going, Mr Voordewind? He actually had a question that was a little bit about that. In response to Mr Belhaj's motion, I indicated that if Dutch government staff were to look on the spot as part of the provision of compensation, what could still be brought up to date could also be considered. That question was still open. I do not want to raise high expectations on this, because that is not possible at the moment, but I think it is important to have said that here. That's what we're doing now. In addition, we made a security image. We have contacted 12 countries that also have a system of fees. As you have read in the documents, our ambassador has made contact with the mayor and the governor of the district to do what we can now do. I hope that we will soon be able to reach something in the Hawija case. For the case Mosul it is something else, because there we have one well-known gentleman who of course has also been in the publicity, namely Mr. Razzo. He also filed a claim with the department. We have agreed with him, also in consultation with the lawyer, that we will speak with him. We've been working on finding out where he was before. He's in Mosul, so that conversation will take place. What else have we done? We've also contacted NGOs to see how fast we can get an image. How can we speed that up, asked Mrs Belhaj and Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kuzu and Mr Kerstens. I have indicated that we are currently mapping out everything to do on the one hand a voluntary compensation, but also something for the community, as I have agreed with your Chamber. That was also stated in the motion by Mr Belhaj and Mr Voordewind. This means that we are also talking to UN organisations, to the Red Cross, to NGOs and partner countries, as I said earlier. We must, of course, do this properly and carefully. I do not want to create the wrong expectations, which is also important to say in this case. We're mapping that. As soon as possible, we will do something with that, there is no misunderstanding. Maybe something for the community can do faster than anything else, so we're also looking at it; how we can do it differently. I think that answers that question. Mr De Roon had a very different question on this point. He wondered why the Netherlands even draws the wallet for compensation, not Iraq. At first, it is Iraq, which is perfectly clear, but we believe that we are not responsible because it is a legitimate attack. That does not alter the fact that we are responsible, as I said in one of the previous debates. We also take responsibility for it by looking at what we can do for the next of kin and the community. That's why we're doing it. It is obvious to me, I very much agree with Mr De Roon, that we do not want the wrong people to benefit from any compensation. That is why it must also be a careful process that we are going through. Then there is a question from Mr Voordewind, but I think it has already been answered. He asked how far the Minister was going with the proposal for a greater degree of transparency. I have said all that I need to say. So we are working hard on that. That's coming in your direction. Your Chamber is also considering this. I have a separate question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen from the Krol Group, I believe, Mr President, and from Mr Baudet. Is there a deliberate strategy to send that letter on 24 March? Well, no. Unfortunately, I sent your Chamber a letter of postponement on 20 February because I was still working on that information at the time and expected my American colleague's reply in the short term. There was a commitment to the Chamber to verify the information we just talked about about Hawija in the US. I therefore wanted to include this reply in that progress letter. When I got that answer, I immediately sent it to the Chamber. If I had sent it later, I probably would have asked why I had waited because of the covid, so my consideration was to direct it in your direction right away. I think the other questions have been answered, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u174	Thank you. I see that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen had another question about the WOB request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u175	I'm gonna have to figure it out for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u176	Will you be returning to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yes. I don't know exactly what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is pointing at, I just said so, so I parked it for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u178	Then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u179	If the Minister comes back to that in the second term, I cannot, of course, ask any more about it. I would therefore prefer the Minister now to explain why she said in the introduction to her first term: I gave the Chamber in November everything I could give her in terms of information. I asked you once more: have I actually heard that correctly, has the Minister indeed done so? The answer to that was "yes." I asked the Minister: but how could it be that a defence investigation of his own did not come to the Chamber until February because of a WOB request? Couldn't the Minister have shared that with the Chamber in November? The Minister replied in her first term of this debate: he could have, yes. So you're not telling the right one through the chairman again... They're lies. Mr. Chairman. It simply cannot be the case that the Minister here states that she has fully informed the Chamber and has given her all the information she could give in November, while then in February a WED request from a journalist is granted, which sends a report of her own inquiry to the Chamber. But I'm gonna be super evil about this. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u180	I still do not know exactly what request is being made, but I will come back to it in a second time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u181	Perhaps you could explain exactly what you are asking for, what is the WOB request, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u182	Yes, Mr. Chairman. A WOB request was granted in February. You sent a letter on this matter to the person who requested it, stating that you released the Defence report on the Hawija bombing investigation. You could, I say, have sent it to the Chamber in November through the President. You then say: yes, you could have, yes. But I'm gonna call that a bad thing, if you've put a few sentences in front of it that you sent all the information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mr. Chairman. I will look again for the second term at exactly what Mrs Van Kooten means. With a WOB request, of course, just as we have here with the Americans, other things are sometimes made public and asked for other things. Then the whole file needs to be looked at. The information I shared with your room was about matters that I could release at that time, because I had them and because I could. For the second term, I'll see what that's like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u184	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u185	I do not understand why the other spokesmen do not run massively to the microphone, because this is a very crucial point. The Minister can just answer that. This is a private investigation by the Defense Department which came to the Chamber only after a WOB request from a journalist in February. The Minister could have done the same in November, and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u186	Mr. Chairman. I have just requested it, because it makes sense for the second term. I need to put my glasses on to read it. In a letter dated 25 November, I indicated that investigations are also partly classified and cannot therefore be made public. In a WOB request, reports were explicitly requested. Since we had discussed this with each other, it was decided, in the context of transparency, to make it public, with the exception of those parts that were classified, because they contain operational information. Could I have done that differently? Yes, I said that in response to you. Yes, maybe I could have done it differently, but it's not that I didn't tell you about those documents, because I mentioned in my letter of 25 November what the conclusions of the investigations were. Let me repeat this once again: on the basis of CENTCOM's available information on the likelihood of civilian casualties and the targeting process, the Ministry was able to complete its own additional investigation on 26 May 2016; the targeting process was properly completed and that was a legitimate military objective. That's what we talked about today. It was also concluded that it was likely that civilian casualties had occurred in this arms deployment. Then the question is how you would do it in the future, because this has become classified public. In future, we will do this differently, because we have agreed on a different procedure. I just talked about that. As soon as there is a suspicion of civilian casualties by Dutch people during the use of an article 100 letter, I will immediately inform you, if possible in public or otherwise confidentially. So that means that this image can never happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u187	Finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u188	For my understanding, it was already the agreement that the Chamber would be informed if there was a chance of civilian casualties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u189	We've been talking about that all along. Of course you should be informed. But in the past, there were other arrangements. Now we have said that you will be informed immediately and without delay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u190	Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen, really the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u191	Mr President, I can't get through. Maybe other colleagues can pick it up. I really feel that the Minister is throwing sand in the eyes of the Chamber again and throwing up a smokescreen, because what she is saying is really not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u192	You may respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u193	No, that is by no means the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u194	No, I hope so too, but then it is important to know what the process has been. If there were agreements made to be transparent, so if there was that possibility... Apparently there was, because on the basis of a WOB request it could come. But it doesn't come to the Chamber, even though the Chamber has asked for it. Why did the Minister choose not to send it, to wait for a WOB request and then send it? That's actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u195	That's what I told you. That was because it was partially classified. That is why I have been chosen to do so differently, as I said just now when we were talking about the American side of the coin to indicate it in sentences in the letter that was written. It could have been otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u196	But still, the classification was a Dutch classification? Correct? So it was possible to send it confidentially to the Chamber? Correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u197	Yeah, I guess I could have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u198	But then why was it chosen not to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u199	It was chosen to indicate in a letter in its entirety what had happened. I do not think that this letter contains all kinds of underlying documents either. That's what was going on. In the future it will certainly be different, but that is the choice that has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u200	Thank you. Mrs Karabulut, I think you're through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u201	There's a question I've been asking you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u202	There's been a question left? I'll see if you really mean that. No new question, just a question that hasn't been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u203	No new question, Mr. Chairman. It is, however, a crucial unanswered question, also in view of the promised improvement. Can the Minister tell me if the Hawija killings are more likely than not to be an exception to the American statistics of unconfirmed deaths, or if there are more? If she can't tell you, can she tell me if she wants to call in a minute and find out? This seems to me to be so fundamental, also for the future and in the context of transparency, that this is not an overly complex question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u204	I just answered that question, which is that I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u205	No, Mrs. Karabulut, I'm sorry. I thank the Minister. I understand there's a need for a brief ten-minute suspension. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u206	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u207	Mr. Chairman. Much has been said in this debate. First of all, I am positive about the Minister's self-reflective capacity. She puts her hand in her own bosom. She also admits to being dissatisfied with how the Chamber was informed in this case. She was upset about that, which I think is still slightly expressed, and makes proposals to improve this. I would also like us as a Chamber to examine how we can really strengthen our information position when it comes to confidential information. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the provision of information to the House of Representatives on military missions may be hampered by the confidentiality of information on the basis of which military missions are formed;]] [[Whereas missions are carried out partly on the basis of information from coalition partners and this information cannot therefore always be shared with members of the House of Representatives;]] [[Whereas this hampers the control function of the House of Representatives when it comes to carrying out military missions;]] [[Speaks as a Chamber itself to set up an external, independent committee representing, in any case, military, politically administrative, scientific and legal disciplines, which advises on possible strengthening of the provision of information to the House of Representatives on military missions and dealing with classified information in favour of the supervisory function of the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Belhaj and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-713]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u208	Mr President, I see that I have three seconds and two more...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u209	I'd say...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u210	Yes, yallah! The fact remains that, in the run-up to the air strikes in Hawija, there was insufficient information on the assessment of secondary explosions, resulting in many casualties. It remains unclear to me exactly what and how this could have happened, even after this debate. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2015 the Netherlands was involved in the air attack on a bomb factory in the Iraqi city of Hawija, where more than 70 civilian casualties were reported;]] [[whereas truth finding in this case has been a difficult process and transparency about civilian casualties was insufficient;]] [[Considering that much is still unclear about the process leading up to the attack, the information prior to this and the action of the Defense after the attack, including the fact that certain information is classified;]] [[calls on the Government to request the Security Research Council to investigate, in the short term, the air attack on Hawija, in order to determine how civilian casualties could have occurred during this attack, as well as the lessons to be learned in the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-714]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u211	Mrs Belhaj's motions look to the future. The first motion places it in part with the intelligence services and others, but we are of course disinformed here. We've had the wrong information. We didn't get any information. We've had misleading information. Do you think that is acceptable and, if not, what political judgment do you attach to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u212	I have tried to get answers to a number of questions in this Chamber, as I said before. And to some of my questions I have received answers. The Minister has also indicated that she should have done it differently. I think it is obvious that in a number of cases we are faced with the fact that we are apparently not allowed to receive certain information. That is why I do not know whether what we have done is right and whether what is said is true, namely that everything went well. That is why I have just tabled that motion, because I think the OVV is capable of getting classified information on the table. After all, that is what he did in his research into Mali. I have done so to ensure that I know this in the right way, because then I can address the Minister in the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u213	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u214	Mrs Belhaj rightly referred to the Constitution as I did, because we, the House of Representatives, are being misled about matters such as war and peace. It is rightly a great thing for D66 when Russia distributes disinformation, but now it is done by our government! And not one year, two years or three years, but years! That's been going on for the past year. Surely you can't just take the flight forward if you want to keep taking yourself, me and all the other colleagues seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u215	If anything is obvious, it is that I take Parliament seriously. That's why we and everyone else stand here every time. We do that to make sure that we keep getting a little further. As far as I'm concerned, it's not just a flight ahead. As far as I am concerned, there are two important conclusions. The Minister has indeed indicated that he has not done a number of things right. It has also indicated that it will improve a number of things. Two. It is my conclusion that, despite all the efforts we have made here, we will eventually run into a wall if we do not have access to that confidential information. It is crucial for me to be able to say something about what has actually happened there, what mistakes have been made there and to what extent is true what the Minister and the Ministry are presenting to us. If I don't have that information, I can't really do much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u216	No, Mrs. Karabulut. Mr. De Roon!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u217	Mrs Belhaj was one of the captains three times last autumn when criticizing this minister. Three times she had the highest voice to criticize the Minister's lack of information policy. Mrs Belhaj then used very harsh words in public this week. She said: I am completely done with this Minister's lack of information policy. So you have already fingered the Minister three times in the last autumn, but it turns out that you are giving her another chance, even though she has failed in your eyes. Surely you're making yourself totally unbelievable in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u218	That is a qualification which Mr De Roon is entitled to make of course. I've always said there's only one thing that matters to me. That's the content and find out what happened. In the debate on the role played by the Minister, you hear me speak firmly, because I really do not think it can be done as it has been. I also think that, after seeing the debate in a number of parts, the Minister may have to think again. She will then understand better what the Chamber means, because it is about generously actively understanding what we need politically and not reacting reactively and defensively to the questions we ask. If the Minister means what she says and also thinks that the Ministry should change, then perhaps the Minister will get to work tonight to do so. I've always said clearly what it was my business to do. I have also asked in the debate on those points which were unclear. I also think that we are not quite there yet, so I would ask for an additional OVV report. That's not the least of it, but I'm doing it to find out what happened, what went wrong and what we can learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u219	Finally, Mr De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u220	A minister who fails three times and has been warned three times, yet still gives a fourth chance, while failing again: that is really incredible. Mrs Belhaj has just put on a really big pair of pants, but those pants turn out to be many times too big and are now falling down, and it turns out that all those strong words of hers just didn't have any substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u221	Mr. Chairman. I do not think this comment is correct. In order to enter this debate in such a general way and then to blame me for not being in it in substance, and in any case, of a party which often tends to have a different way of conducting the debate... Anyway, let me just get that punch, though not heartily. I know what motions I have now tabled. I do not know which motions other colleagues are going to table. I also have a group that I will talk to after the second term, because they will also find something. I'm not the only D66 guy. There are 19 of us, so I'll definitely do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u222	Mrs Belhaj said today to the Minister that she should say everything, that she should offer complete openness. Can I now conclude that this complete openness is required? A follow-up question is how this relates to what Mrs Belhaj herself said, namely that she still has a motion that she thinks is necessary to gain some insight. It's two and one, I think. She is calling on the Minister to be completely open. There's gonna be one or there's not gonna be one. If there is, then you don't need a motion to get more information on the table, either, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u223	I understand this, but what we run into in the monitoring task we have is that we have actually heard from the Minister today on a number of points: I cannot tell you that. In fact, we still do not know to what extent they knew or did not know what ammunition was there, or that they did indeed indicate 'we did not know', what risks they have taken, what information they have given to the decision to do it anyway, what it looked like, so they said: if there is a secondary explosion, then that sister-and-so reaches far. And, perhaps also important, to what extent our own red card holder knew enough, which is important, to be able to do his job properly. Those are questions that I want a substantive answer to, because if I don't have an answer to, you can close the book, but you don't really know anything yet. That is why I think it is important to continue to emphasise this. Secondly, the Minister has indicated in a number of parts that he would like to bring about improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u224	Finally, Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u225	Finally, Mr President. Did Mrs Belhaj also hear the Minister say, "No, I wouldn't do anything else" on the specific question I asked the Minister, whether she would do anything else looking back? That's the answer I got. That does not sound like all kinds of changes are being announced or as 'hand in your own bosom', as Mrs Belhaj called it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u226	The Minister started out on basics, which was a bit confusing, but then I asked what the learning process was. That was very much about communication and the way in which she has fulfilled her role to go to the Americans and to say "I want that report." I think that was one. Secondly, what I think is very important is how the Ministry of Defence has dealt with reporting to the Public Prosecutor's Office, adequately and in time for investigation to be carried out. Thirdly, we have tried to find out to what extent the Minister has rightly suggested to this Chamber that there was no unlawful action. I believe that the Minister agreed to this at some point in an interrupting debate. "Indeed, that's right, I can't talk about the whole process, because I actually only have a look at that last part." She also said once again that the use of such a legal term is actually wrong, because there has never been a criminal investigation. Those are just a few examples of things I've pulled from the interruptions. I want to get a good answer to the questions that I have just said in the press that I want to clarify. There's one thing we don't know. We still don't know where it went wrong, how it could happen that so many civilian casualties have occurred. I am still placing that truth at the heart of the matter, and that is why I am tabling this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u227	I would like to hear from Mrs Belhaj, who has just heard my little interrupting debate with the Minister, what she thinks is that the Minister could have shared something, but that it is due to a WOB request to the Chamber, and that she did not share it herself in November, when she said in this debate: I shared everything I could share with the Chamber in November. How does Mrs Belhaj feel about that? On this basis, what expectations does it have for the future of this Minister's information?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u228	I heard the debate. I had to listen very carefully, because I thought: yes, but I think we've exchanged that before. I think it was a fair question. You talked about help from other colleagues, but sometimes you don't have any more interruptions. I am therefore curious to know what the answer is if you ask that question again in the second term. 'Cause I get your idea. It's not just the WOB request, but there are other reports. I see you looking, maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u229	I actually got a clear answer. The answer was 'I could have done that and I might have done that differently in the future, but I did not', when the Minister said 'yes, I shared everything I could share with the Chamber in November'. I checked again. I asked again: did I hear correctly that the Minister actually sent everything she could share to the Chamber? The answer was yes. Then I say: but couldn't the Minister share with the Chamber that WOB request, that report, that own Defence report was the investigation already completed in 2016? The Minister says: yes, it could have been. What kind of confidence does that give to Mrs Belhaj for the future and the provision of information to this minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u230	I think it's a fair question. I had also thought that through you, Mr President, I should like to ask the Minister, now that I am going towards the conclusion, at least: have you now shared everything you know and what is known in the ministry that you may suspect is relevant to know before the House of Representatives? I would like to have a very clear answer to that, because if we hear again in three months' time 'o, but you have not asked' or 'oh yes, no, it was a coincidence that a journalist came with it', then we are not doing very well here. I think it is important, on the basis of what you are now saying, for the Minister to state that again today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u231	That is exactly the question Mrs Belhaj asked during her first term. Apparently, there has not been sufficient response. A second deadline is mainly intended to assess the state of play. I know Mrs Belhaj as a Member of Parliament in terms of substance, who is extremely interested in dossiers, but a political judgement is now being requested. I actually have a very simple question. We don't have to make a fool of ourselves. If Mrs Belhaj had gone into the same information, with a completely different role in this House of Representatives, namely not as a coalition party but as an opposition party, wouldn't her judgment be much brighter than the judgment that she is now in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u232	No, Mr. Chairman, it wouldn't be. I was in opposition when I held the debate with the former minister, Hennis, on the Mali report. That's when I was in there the same way. It's no different for me. What is different, unlike that heavy debate back then, is that we had all the information back then. That's why that OVV report was so important to us. It was impossible for us to do all this right and to draw conclusions from it. Eventually, the Minister and the CDS themselves drew their own conclusions. I'd like to give it to the Chamber to really want to know everything. Conclusions on what has happened there, what I think of it and what mistakes have been made, I cannot draw until I know it all. Since I don't have access to that classified information, I've filed an additional motion. I think it really has to be different in the House of Representatives. If no one can control exactly what goes wrong on such matters, I really don't think it can. If I'm being honest, I've been trying for five years on the Defence Committee, along with Mrs Karabulut. So it's very sad that some of my colleagues thought, "What are you talking about?" So here's what I'm talking about: this embarrassing situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u233	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u234	Of course, Mrs Belhaj's commitment to the Defence Committee deserves respect. She has been there very fiercely and she also used strong words during the first term. What matters is that you cannot compare the debate on Mali and the debate we now have four times in a row on Hawija and the flow of information that has been generated in this way at all. I think Mrs Belhaj has used firm words. I think there are consequences for this too. I see that Mrs Belhaj is now asking for further research and oh woe if more information comes up. This does not make Mrs Belhaj's commitment, which is actually very substantive, more credible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u235	That is what Mr Kuzu can say. I must also mention, of course, that we now have a second deadline and that after that there is a suspension. I have a group and they are going to ask me questions. So it seems to me as neat as I first, before I share all kinds of conclusions, discuss with my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u236	Thank you, Mrs Belhaj. Mrs Karabulut has the floor on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u237	Mr. Chairman. Last week, I believe, you told us all, the country, that democracy falls or stands with openness and transparency. This Parliament, our parliament, can only represent the people if we get the right information. We can only properly control the government in important matters, such as war and peace, when the government implements the Constitution, namely by providing us with the information we request. Mr. Chairman. We often talk about disinformation from other countries, bad enough, but this Chamber should not act as a cripple when we ourselves are being de-informed, because that is what is happening. There was a lie first, then there was a promise of getting better, and then we got disinformation. When I ask the Minister substantive questions about which coalition country has refused to carry out the very risky attack, the Minister does not want to pursue it. If I ask the Minister, "Minister, the more likely than not civilian victims, Hawijacker victims, exception in those statistics, is that an exception or are there more?" Then the Minister doesn't want to find out. Mr President, this Minister, the Cabinet and the Ministry are not openly honest and certainly not transparent. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Chamber was not informed openly and fairly about civilian casualties in the fight against Islamic State;]] [[expresses confidence in the Minister of Defense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Kerstens, Mr Kuzu, Mr De Roon and Mr Wassenberg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-715]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mr President, I have one more motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u239	Then I'd start with that, or else I'd have to let everyone speak in depth again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u240	These were only two cases on which we now know the truth, courtesy of journalists. But there's 2,098 left to go. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands carried out 2,100 air strikes in the fight against Islamic State;]] [[noting that it is only in two cases that it is clear where and when the air attack has been carried out;]] [[calls on the Minister to open up the other air strikes so that it can be verified whether they have led to civilian casualties elsewhere,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Karabulut, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Van Otterloo and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-716]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u241	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you to the Minister for answering the questions. I would like to use my brief speaking time to explain why I signed Mrs Karabulut's motion. In November, my group submitted a statement to the Chamber stating that the Chamber had been informed prematurely, incompletely and incorrectly. I believe and felt that the Minister should have the opportunity over the past six months to regain the confidence that we no longer had in her at the time. But I am now looking at the subject of transparency. Let us be honest about it: we are only standing here today because a WOB procedure has been initiated and won in the United States. Otherwise, we wouldn't be standing here. Then we would not have understood that we have now been given the way in which the procedures are being implemented and how decision-making has taken place in this particular bombardment. So, unfortunately, we have not yet achieved the transparency that this minister is so committed to. The Minister calls that worthless and she says she hates it. I believe that, but she, and not anyone else than her, is responsible for this lack of transparency. Mr. Chairman. The same applies to the issue of compensation for the victims. I also spoke about this in the first term. It just doesn't get going. There is an inter-departmental committee. He's studying the possibility of paying a voluntary fee. Something must be done for the community, but what that is and when that happens is completely unclear. The community in Hawija is in ruins, not in six months, not in a month or a week, but for five years. It's high time we did something about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u242	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for the comprehensive explanation and response. As far as I'm concerned, that's enough. I will therefore not support a motion of censure. I still have a motion of my own to support the military in question. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hawija bomb factory was destroyed with military precision;]] [[Whereas in recent years the emphasis has been placed on the fact that civilian deaths have also occurred;]] [[Whereas the criticism in this case concerns political accountability and not the actions of the military, but the military have come into an evil light;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the military concerned can receive a token of appreciation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-717]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u244	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for her answers. But there was a really weird pronunciation. She said, if I'm going to use weapons, I'm not an expert. That may be the case, but we are talking about a minister responsible for military operations, operations in which dozens of innocent civilian victims have now been killed. Mr. Chairman. During the fourth debate on Hawija, words such as "carefulness" and "transparency" are used every once in a while by the Minister, who then explains with a lot of words that the process is far from transparent. Once again, the Lower House is informed by journalists rather than by the Minister. And when the Chamber asks the Minister about its responsibility, the Chamber is told that the Minister is unable to comply with its own policy on transparency. The Chamber has been asking for information for years and is not getting anything. To deceive the Chamber may be political, but leaving the next of kin with countless unanswered questions is morally reprehensible. It is now up to the Chamber to wait for a journalist to reveal new information, after which we are once again standing here and seeing that this minister has not made sufficient efforts to get the bottom line, or to take this minister's responsibilities into account. DENK chooses the latter. That is why DENK supports the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u245	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u246	Mr. Chairman. This debate focused in particular on the provision of information to the cabinet, to the minister, to the Chamber. The Minister indicated that she was looking for a balance between transparency on the one hand and security on the other. She also literally said this with the words "I do it as well as possible and as honor and conscience." We can see that, too. We see that struggle at the same time. But for us to see that is the reason why we will not support this motion of censure as tabled by the SP, with the support of other parties. But we do see that there is a need for improvement. That is why we have the next motion. It's like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the participation of the Netherlands in military missions requires every effort to prevent innocent civilian deaths;]] [[Whereas, for this purpose, the Dutch information and intelligence position should be in order for the military decision-makers, but also within the government, and certainly with a view to informing Parliament;]] [[calls on the Government to actively invest both in improved information and intelligence cooperation with allies such as the United States and in sound independent intelligence gathering where necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to continuously improve the "target development process" where necessary and where possible with regard to the optimal use of information on the real risk of secondary explosions and civilian casualties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Van Haga and Mr Voordewind. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-718]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u247	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u248	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Helvert on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u249	Thank you, Madam President. It was a spicy debate and also a difficult debate. The CDA welcomes the Minister's statement that I am going to make sure that we make these agreements better next time. That's what I'm supposed to do. That was precisely the question we asked: are there any agreements on the protocol around the targeting? Are there any agreements on how to inform the Chamber? What information does the Chamber get? It's also about agreements about how we deal with what America does and doesn't share with us. We want to know better in advance, because that is also very important. Perhaps Article 100 does indeed provide an opportunity for this. If a ministry decides at some point 'we are going to do things differently; we are going to do things more transparently', the tricky thing is that I would have liked to have said that a minister is obviously faced with a number of things from the past. Where previously was agreed with all of us that we wouldn't talk about it, or else, we will do it now, and otherwise. This is another one of those debates, and it's hard. Madam President. I think we can also say that it is a good thing that we can discuss this with the Minister here that we want this to be different, because that was not the case in the past. That doesn't make it any less difficult, but I think that should be said. Madam President. I'll say, not everything, not all the information, we'll be able to share. That is not possible, for national security, for the safety of our kites, but also for the safety of missions. Otherwise we will never be able to participate in these missions from the Netherlands and we would never have been able to save those thousands of Jezidis. It is therefore important that we continue to participate in missions, including in the future. The Minister will therefore have to share that very thin thread between what is and what is not to be done very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u250	Thank you. Mr Kerstens has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u251	Thank you, Mr President. I've never talked about culture as often as I've talked about it since I became the Secretary of Defense. The culture to be as closed as possible rather than as transparent as can be, that culture is a problem. When it comes to culture, you expect a minister to deal with that culture, not one who makes him his own. A minister who ensures that we can rely on what is said rather than doubting it. That proactively shares information and not bit by bit with horns and bumps if there's really no other way. That is crucial, also for confidence in the Minister, especially when it comes to matters of life and death. for our own people, who we send on mission, and for innocent civilians. I have to say that the Minister, looking back on her own functioning, says that she has done nothing wrong. She'd do it just like that next time. I asked her about it explicitly and not without reason. The Labour Party does not consider that to be the answer of a minister who should be showing and should want to show that she is doing everything possible to regain confidence. That is why our signature is under the motion tabled by Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u252	Thank you. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u253	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fourth debate on Hawija largely followed the same lines as the previous three debates. Again a difficult debate. I note that the Minister has misrepresented things, withheld things and shared false information. She failed to report to the Chamber that the procedure for bombing bomb factories of ISIS has changed since the Hawija disaster. Instead, she maintained that the proper procedure had been followed, but not that the procedure itself was not proper and therefore amended. For too long, the Minister has also allowed uncertainty to exist and has even created a situation in which the number of civilian deaths has been reduced. That has been a totally wrong assessment. There is still no transparency about civilian deaths. In addition, the Minister is once again trying to frame others. First that was her predecessor, then the Prime Minister, then the Americans, and now the Public Prosecutor gets a sneak. A slim profit from four heavy debates. Mr. Chairman. My group has not had much confidence in the Minister in the last seven hours. That is why my name is also under Mrs Karabulut's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you. Mr Voordewind has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the answers to my questions. I have heard the Minister very clearly admit in this debate that the information of the Americans, including all the confidentiality surrounding it... How did she say it? That it was worthless; I wrote it down. She is now going to work with the Chamber to see how we can improve the provision of information to the Chamber. I hope that will increase confidence. Of course, we need the Americans, because they are classified. As far as security is concerned, we must respect that, including the safety of our people. But wherever possible, the Chamber would like to be informed. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions that I'm about to read. Mrs Belhaj had no time for the first motion. I'm going to read it on her behalf. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that after the attack on the bomb factory in Hawija by Dutch F-16's investigation by the Public Prosecutor about the legality of the attack started months later;]] [[Whereas there are protocols between the Ministry of Defence and the Public Prosecutor on informing the Public Prosecutor of civilian casualties or any suspicion thereof following an attack carried out by the Netherlands at the time of a military mission;]] [[calls on the Government to improve this protocol with the aim of directly informing the Office by the Ministry of Defence when civilian casualties have occurred during a military mission carried out by the Netherlands or where there is a suspicion of this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Voordewind and Mr Belhaj. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-719]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u256	Yeah, that's right. Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, a motion of my own and then I close up. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch red card holder or the red card holder in the anti-IS coalition in his or her decision could not have taken into account the warnings of CIA informants that possible civilian casualties could occur in the attack on the IS bomb factory in Hawija;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct the Dutch card holders to actively ask for all relevant information on the risk of civilian casualties,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Voordewind, Mr Van Helvert, Mr Belhaj, Mr Stoffer and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27925-720]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u257	I have heard Mr Voordewind judge the behaviour of the Americans, but what does Mr Voordewind think of the disinformation of the Minister and of the Cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u258	The Minister informed the Chamber of her abilities. She depended on the information provided by the Americans. In my first contribution, I also emphasized this. Take the fact that, for example, the minister was initially informed about classification and statistics on civilian casualties that they were not in the figures and that they were in the figures. I think you shouldn't charge this minister and you shouldn't blame her. It is also dependent on the provision of information to the Americans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u259	Finally, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u260	Mr Voordewind unfortunately swallows this for sweet cake. That information was already known from 2017. The whole world knew and only the minister got the wrong notes. But okay. Let's get to the future. We still have 2,098 uninvestigated cases. In the context of transparency, can I count on your support for the motion to release the information on the bombings, so that we can check whether they were all precise and clean, just like these two?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u261	I have heard the Minister say that with regard to transparency she will see if she can even better inform the Chamber. That is what she stated in her written reply and said here today. If that cannot be done publicly, the Minister will do so confidentially. I'll wait for that cooperation with the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u262	Thank you. Mr De Roon has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The explosion as a result of the Dutch air strike at a bomb factory of Islamic State in Hawaija was heard 55 kilometers away. Major international press agencies reported dozens of victims within 24 hours. Witnesses spoke of a devastation similar to the aftermath of a nuclear disaster. However, according to former minister Hennis, no civilian casualties had occurred and Minister Bijleveld waited for the media publications to come up to work on this lie again. Prime Minister Rutte suddenly had no memory and Minister Bijleveld informed the Chamber again at the end of last year by saying that the victims of the attack were not included in the summary. That while the well-known graphs on civilian casualties in Iraq show a peak in the month of the attack, June 2015, which was about as high as the roof of the House of Representatives. But Minister Bijleveld continued to deny and was not eager enough to find out the facts. After that, the Minister, even today, shifts her lack of motivation to find out the truth against the Americans. They would have misinformed her, when she should have just asked herself and acted proactively and, above all, decisively. But none of that. Mr. Chairman. We can't settle for vague promises about improvement anymore. We've had it before. What we need is someone who can grasp the urgency of this dossier and act accordingly. That is why I signed the motion of censure today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u264	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a very sad meeting in every respect. The subject is sad, not only with regard to the victims, but also with regard to the lack of progress we are making on this dossier. It is right that the Minister should stand for the interests of the military. No one here has said that the military would blame it. But saying that it went well according to the procedure is, of course, a misconception of the fact that the procedure is not well organized. If you have a red card holder that is only enabled at the moment that all the information has been collected and passed through a certain sieve, the red card holder bears a responsibility that it cannot actually fulfil. In that respect, I think it is comparable to an accountant who says that in the event of a major fraud, all signatures were placed in the right place and he has put the ticks on it. I can't do that. That is not a good prospect for the future either. We need to change those procedures. We must make the procedures so that the Netherlands can fulfil its position and fulfil its responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u266	Were you ready, Mr. Van Otterloo?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u267	No, I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u268	You've got five seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u269	I've got five seconds, yeah. You know what I can do in five seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u270	Well, I'm curious. Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u271	Just a minute, Mr. Chairman. A comparison is made here with fraud. Especially in the context of military engagement, I find it inappropriate. I hope Mr Van Otterloo will take it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u272	I wasn't talking about the subject, I was talking about the procedure. I was talking about putting ticks on an accountant. It's the same thing. This is about life and death. Here we are talking about something that is very serious, namely an attack. You've been given a responsibility. The Netherlands has taken that responsibility, not a single point of criticism of it. What shocked me yesterday at the technical briefing was that in the first three phases no information was shared in completeness and only the outcome. Then the red card holder had to proceed with the outcome of that information. And now we have a conclusion here, which was also confirmed yesterday at my question, namely that if the information as it is now had come to the right place, that attack would not have been carried out. This immediately shows that it is not a question of people not taking responsibility, but of the fact that there are gaps in the procedure which prevent you from taking responsibility when the information is not good. It's far from me to say that people are to blame, and that's what I started doing. But you don't have to do that in case of fraud. This is about checking. Emphasising that the procedures have been correctly followed is a denial of the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u273	We're not going to have the debate again. We've been debating for hours. Mr. Bosman, I allowed the interruptions because of the motions, but Mr. Van Otterloo has no motion at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u274	No, Mr President, but here a comparison is made between deliberate fraud and a careful procedure within the Defense Department. The point is that no deliberate mistake has been made. There was no intention of making it a wrong outcome. In fact, it's not about whether the information was in the right place. There was limited information. There was at the end. It's not about where it was, it's about where it was limited. That was the problem and no different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u275	You've made your point and you're about to finish, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u276	I do not agree with that point, because there was information, but it was not shared at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u277	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u278	Finally, Mr President. We supported the motion because we say, in American terms, three strikes you're out. Unfortunately, there has not been enough improvement and the Minister has missed the ball again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u279	Thank you. Mr Bosman, on behalf of the VVD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u280	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the comprehensive answer. Information is crucial. The Chamber should be able to assume, and feel, that all the information that is requested is also provided. If it is information from third parties, then it requires an extra effort from the Minister. Of course, there may be a problem when we talk about classified information, but then I expect the Minister to make every effort to get that information. If that information can be made available through a WOB or Freedom of Information Act, I assume that it can also come proactively to the Chamber without having to make all kinds of requests. Does the Minister agree with me? How does the Minister ensure that the Ministry will also implement this way of working? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u281	Thank you. No, Mrs. Karabulut, I'm not, I'm sorry. Thank you, Mr. Bosman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u282	I didn't have a motion either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u283	No, you didn't have a motion. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u284	Mr President, thank you. I have to say that many questions have been asked, but most of them have been answered confusingly, incompletely and incomprehensiblely. I only have 40 seconds to speak, so I will be brief. I have co-tabled the motion of censure, because I believe that a highly unreliable minister should leave. I have one more appeal to the two spokesmen of the coalition parties I think they really have a heart for this case, but are caught in some kind of coalition interest: never throw your political credibility for the coalition or party interest, because you now have the opportunity to save democracy; be a true representative of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u285	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I call Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u286	Mr. Chairman. We have again discussed in detail today the misinformation of the Chamber in connection with the bombing in Hawija. What I want to add to what has changed today is that it really bothers me that here and there the appearance is created that the military involved would have made mistakes. In this house, they were even called murderers once, and I think that's a hell of a scandal. We cannot repeat often enough that the soldiers concerned are not blamed at all and that they have acted with all due conscience. Because they deserve our appreciation, I tabled a motion together with Mr Van Haga on this matter to give an additional token of appreciation to our military. We have discussed all the political issues in detail. We have discussed the question of who should have informed who when. However, I think that this point should be made clear as a Chamber: we must support the military; they are not blamed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u287	Mr. Baudet, the verdict you're referring to was from one Member of Parliament, and the entire Chamber has distanced itself from it. And that was a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u288	Beautiful! Well, in this case, that point has been made abound once more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u289	Mr President, it is indeed a good thing that you indicate this and that it is being taken over, because everyone in this Chamber has been very careful with that. If you make such a statement, you really hurt a lot of soldiers, contrary to what he thinks he's saying and wanting to achieve, namely that it shouldn't be about that. A motion also suggests that we are holding this debate in order to call it into question, but that is not the case. The entire House of Representatives, from left to right, supports the military. This debate is not about them. This debate is about the Minister responsible for the military commitment that has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u290	Yeah, good. We're in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u291	I would just like to make a few brief comments on Mr Baudet's political judgment. He spoke loud, clear words: disinformation of the Chamber. Are you going to support the motion of censure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u292	No, I don't support the motion of censure. I think it has become very clear what went wrong. I think it has been indicated that things will have to improve in the future. I think that has made the point clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u293	Mr Baudet therefore accepts that the Chamber of the European Parliament suddenly accepts misinformation of such important matters, which are also related to the same military he claims to stand up for. These soldiers also want us not only to be informed here about the clean sides of the war, but to have all the information on the table. They, too, benefit from this. Why are you suddenly resigning to this? That's what I'm wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u294	I think it's every time a judgment you make depends on the situation you're in. In this case, I think that we have discussed very clearly on several occasions, I think that there is actually very little disagreement about some things that have not gone well. That has clearly come to light. There have also been clear glances at the future: how should things be better? I'll settle for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u295	That is, of course, Mr Baudet's right. He voted for the motion last time that said: incorrect, incomplete, untimely. That's what he thought at the time. So apparently it's gotten a lot better now. That might explain the questions that I would like to answer, namely what in his opinion has become exactly better on these points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u296	I don't think it makes any sense to say the same thing again if you've said it before. In that sense, it has not so much gotten better. It is, of course, a repetition of a point we have already made. What I think has become clear enough now... I've learned that if someone isn't at the microphone, we assume he's not saying anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u297	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u298	I liked the debate. I'm confident we're getting better now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u299	So, if I understand correctly, it's not because it's gotten better, but because Mr. Baudet doesn't like to repeat things. So he's still finding it. It is important, I think, to hear that very clearly. Does he still think it's true, but doesn't he want to repeat it every time? "Untimely, incomplete, incorrect." Or he actually says, "Well, I think it's a lot better now."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u300	I think the message has arrived, if that is what Mr Van Ojik means. I think the message has arrived. That's what I heard back today. Chamberwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u301	I'm going to keep on doing that, because I don't think it's that funny at all. Do I understand correctly that Mr Baudet says: I said once that I actually think that this minister should leave and I am not going to say this again, because then we can continue to do so in a manner of speaking? Does that also apply to all the other times that he has indicated that a ruler is not doing well and should actually leave? If that person has then stayed seated, will Mr Baudet announce that we will not hear him again? Because why would you talk about it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u302	Of course not. If something has to be done, politically or in any other way, then it must be done at a later date. One example is the unravelling of the euro. The longer you wait for that, the worse the problem gets. It's not like you shouldn't do that after a while. Think also of tackling immigration, and mention it all, the problems you do not address. Of course. It is only in this case that we have the impression that the existing protocols have been sufficiently adapted and the mistakes made have been sufficiently recognised. Does the vision of the future offer sufficient confidence? In this case... I think it's funny that I'm being asked about this, but I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u303	Do you like that very much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u304	Yeah, I think it's a nice...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u305	I can see that. Mr. Kerstens, finally. It is actually the same question as Mr Van Ojik's.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u306	Well, it's not the same question, but maybe I wasn't paying attention. Could Mr Baudet mention two concrete points of improvement on the basis of which he says: I actually thought Minister should leave, but now I do not think so anymore? What are these concrete points of improvement? Where does Mr Baudet derive the confidence, rather than the mistrust he expressed last time, that things are going to be okay now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u307	I do not think I can explain this with one or two specific points, but I think that more than last time... Inevitably, there is also a subjective element in all political considerations. My impression is that there is now a broad view that a number of things have really not gone well and that we are going to do better in the future. I have faith in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u308	I find the populism of this contribution really disgusting. It refers to a statement that I have already said in an interruption to Mr Bosman that we apologize for that. They're already made. That recitation is abject. The nonchalance, the attitude, the way in which Mr Baudet has now entered the second term, who has not caused any interruption to the Minister and who then withdraws in this way: that is abject. It is repulsive and simply extremely low, because this is a debate about civilian casualties that have fallen. Then be a little laughy, a little nonchalant attitude: it's abject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u309	And disgusting and low.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u310	Yeah, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u311	Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. How long shall I suspend the meeting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u312	Fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u313	Then I'll suspend the meeting for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u314	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to start my second term by saying again loud and clear that I am naturally responsible for what happened and what happens in my department and that I feel that responsibility. I also indicated this in my introduction in the first term. I feel the responsibility for the way things are going in Hawija, but also, of course, for the provision of information to your Chamber, and for the fact that there has been a serious event in Hawija with tragic consequences. The whole also really strengthens me in the need to continue on this path of being more transparent. In fact, I was asked only one very specific question in the second term. That is the question Mrs Belhaj concluded with: have you shared everything that you think is relevant to the Chamber? As far as I am aware of all the data now, I must say that I am indeed convinced that I have shared with the Chamber the information I can now share with the Chamber. But you're asking for a guarantee. You know that we work in this kind of process in a coalition context, also looking at international relations. Of course, I cannot give a 100% guarantee on this point. I would like to emphasise that I am convinced that I have shared all the information I have now, as far as it is known, but I can never give you an overall guarantee in this kind of international processes. Mr President, I will come to the motions and put on my glasses for that! The first motion, in part No. 713, is an appeal to the Chamber itself and I cannot judge it. The second motion, in part No. 714, calls on the Security Research Council to initiate an investigation in the short term. There are a number of complications before the Security Research Council, which I would like to mention. There is a legal exclusion for the armed forces. The OVV does not see the armed forces in armed conflicts during an operation to enforce the international legal order. The Rijkswet OVV also has no effect outside the Kingdom. In addition, OVV researchers do not have access to classified information. However, with these comments in mind, I am certainly prepared to discuss with the OVV and discuss with them how to do so. In view of this comment, I cannot give you a guarantee at this time, but I am prepared to have that conversation with them and see if the motion could be carried out within the conditions that exist. Under that condition, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The third motion, tabled by Mrs Karabulut, to item No. 715 I'd like to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u316	No, that's up to the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u317	Oh, yeah. Sorry, Chairman. I see now that that is indeed up to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 716 by Mrs Karabulut c.s. I'd also like to dissuade you. I really need to draw a line here. You cannot ask me to disclose this operational information. It's always been our line that we don't. With the release of detailed information about our weapons deployment, terrorists from ISIS and any future opponents simply gain insight into our tactical methods and we simply cannot do that. So I'd like to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u318	Very briefly, Mrs Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u319	Why, in all safety, can the Minister release data on two bombings in which civilians were killed, but not on the 2.098 where the Minister did not consider that to be the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u320	This is operational information which we believe should not fall into the hands of the enemy. That's what I reported, and that's why I betrayed her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u321	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u322	But we've already passed that station. The Minister has released information, but we don't have all the information yet. My follow-up question is then whether the Minister can rule out the fact that the other 2,098 cases, which Airwars and others cannot judge about, are more dead than there are in the statistics. Can the Minister exclude that there are incidents involving the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u323	I have stated in my assessment that I really believe that future military and military operations should not be put at risk. That's why I really advise against this motion. The motion by Mr van Haga and Mr Baudet in part No. 717 asks for a token of appreciation from the military. I also greatly appreciate the work of our military. In the first period, I have really talked about this in detail. I really appreciate the work of our men and women who are at risk for their own lives. I've said that several times. It seems to me to be a very sympathetic gesture, and that is why I leave the judgement and further interpretation to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 718 by Mr Stoffer and others, requesting the government to actively invest in the provision of information between, and cooperation with, allies, and to invest in its own intelligence capacity. Mr Stoffer has also made that very clear in his speech. I can leave that to the Chamber. We have frequent political, military and administrative contacts with the allies, and I am, of course, prepared to discuss with our partners how we can improve this information cooperation. I have also said something about this in my own reply to you. I have also indicated to your Chamber that the target development process is under continuous review. From today's commitment we learn something again for tomorrow's deployment. That's also the learning organization we want to be and we need to be. So I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 719. Technically, I think I must say 'from Mr Voordewind and Mrs Belhaj', I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u324	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u325	That motion requests that the protocol be improved, with the aim of informing directly. I'm prepared to talk to the D.A., because that's what's going to happen, about the execution of the agreements between the D.A. and the D.A.'s office. I have already indicated that, in future, we will not wait so long to provide coalition investigations in the debate, and that can therefore be part of the discussion we are having with the Public Prosecutor. On the Voordewind/Belhaj motion, I can therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then I have one motion, namely the Voordewind motion c.s. in piece No. 720. It is about the red card holder and asks the government to actively ask the Dutch red card holder about the risk of civilian casualties. I can also leave the judgment to the Chamber, because a red card holder always has an instruction and acts on instruction. In the procedures, we can make that even more explicit, so that he can also see whether the information he sees contains all the relevant intelligence products. Mr. Chairman. That's my assessment of the motions. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. When I look at this debate and the previous debates, I want to conclude with the fact that participation in a war, in which Dutch soldiers are sent out, who ultimately put their lives at risk and whose aim is to bring peace and security, requires careful consideration and broad support in the Chamber. For that, there is no misunderstanding on my part, more transparency than before, also in order to be able to answer to the Chamber, as I am doing here today. The first steps towards transparency have been taken. I have also indicated it to you, and I hope to continue this conversation with you, so that we ultimately know much better what is happening and can work together to support the difficult work of the Defense Department and the difficult work that our men and women are doing all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u326	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-14-tweedekamer-7.u327	The motions tabled during this debate and the legislative proposals before us will be put to the vote in 20 minutes.
