ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u1	Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS for her question on the interest rate. The question is addressed to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS finds the news of the last week pleasing that the sacred house of calculation interest is finally being discussed. The article in De Telegraaf states that this is done in a large exchange, in which the Minister is prepared to abolish the interest rate and give up the unions pension securities. 50PLUS has a lot of questions about this. I hope the Minister will write with me. Does the abolition of the interest rate also mean that the phenomenon of coverage will fall and that a cash flow system could be considered? Or is it the intention not to completely abolish the interest rate but to adjust it? Could this mean that the deletion of a security measure in the current Pension Act of 97.5% is sufficient for the exit from risk-free interest rates? Has this become negotiable and is this the certainty the trade unions must give up? Can the expected return be partly taken into account in the calculation rate? In short, can the Minister state exactly where he is now coloring off the lines of the pension agreement? What has the Minister brought to this fundamental understanding at the moment and how will he proceed? And can I assume that the Minister, like 50PLUS, believes that a good pension is an indexed pension?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk, for the detailed questions I unfortunately cannot answer all of them. Why not? Because, as you know, we are in the elaboration of the pension agreement. To this end, together with the trade unions, the employers, De Nederlandsche Bank, the AFM and all kinds of pension experts, we have set up a steering committee to work out the two contracts under the pension agreement. I promised your Chamber that I would come forward with a general note on the preparation of these two contracts before the summer. They're working hard on it now. Those experts are together. They've even been together today. That has also been in the newspaper; that is not news. Like there are other things in the paper, which is new. That steering group has been together and we are working hard with those experts to work it out. More generally, no, the pension agreement has not been abandoned, because the technical exploration of these two contracts falls within the objectives and agreements set out in the pension agreement. What is true is that there are all kinds of technical explorations. This concerns different variants within those two contracts that have been agreed: the new contract and the contract relating to the Improved Premium Scheme Act. We're conducting technical reconnaissance to come up with a more detailed explanation, so I can share it with your room before the summer. More generally, even deeper when it comes to calculating interest rates: the Dutch Pension Act prescribes the risk-free interest rate including the UFR as a measure of the valuation of pension funds' liabilities. Mrs. Van Brenk knows that. We've talked about that a lot, even in this room. This is an important starting point for the cabinet. If you charge a higher calculus rate for the valuation of those liabilities, then you spend money you haven't earned yet. However, there are no obligations in a pension contract that does not deal with claims. So you don't have to dissect. That is not news for your Chamber, because that is actually already covered by the Improved Premium Scheme Act. In fact, that was already in Klaas Knot's letter from mid 2018, which was sent to your Chamber at the request of Mr Van Rooijen. And that is also in the elaboration of the Wet Improved Premium Scheme, in which, as it were, you can count on a projection efficiency in individual jars. I would not like to make it much more technical today, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u5	It is also a Question Time, so it is not a really extensive debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u6	So the minister says he's not coloring off the lines of the pension agreement, as the paper says. He says, "I'm gonna stay all the way in there." Do I understand that the Minister is working on the 4C variant? So a personal pension assets plus a collective buffer for the sharing of investment risks. And does the Minister guarantee that there will be no unlucky and lucky generations with that intended variant? I think that's important for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u7	The first question: no, I'm not working out 4C, I'm working out the new contract and the Improved Premium Scheme Act. As you know, one contract is a limited risk-sharing arrangement and the other is a more comprehensive risk-sharing arrangement. These are the two characteristics of the two contracts in the pension agreement. This really differs from the SER variants that have been on the table before, for those who love it: 1A, 1B, 4A, B and C. So it really is a different reality. The reality is that of the pension agreement. Sorry, I forgot your second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u8	Bad luck and luck in generations. I think that's a very important one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u9	Once, but that goes for all parties. This is an important starting point for both trade unions and employers as well as for me. Mr Omtzigt has often asked for this in the pension debates. How do you make sure you have stability in the pension benefit phase? How do you prevent volatility? That's one. Two: how do you prevent one generation from getting hit hard due to stock exchange prices, see what has happened over the past few weeks and not the other generation? In technical terms, this also has to do with the degree of risk-sharing. Then how do you divide those risks among the generations? We have made a number of agreements on this. Within those agreements, we're working it out. Before the summer, the mainnote comes to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u10	In any case, we hope that the steering committee will also look at all the returns that exist. For a lot of people in the Netherlands it is very difficult to understand that discounts threaten while the returns are really very good. The Minister has not yet confirmed it, but I would really like to hear from him the statement that a good pension is an indexed pension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u11	I can also draw Mrs Van Brenk's attention to the reality of the financial markets over the last two weeks, for example. As a result of the uncertainty about the coronavirus, stock exchange prices worldwide have hit a significant blow, but interest rates have also fallen sharply. This naturally has an impact on our funded pension system. We cannot close our eyes to that; that is just the reality, I think. I'd love to promise all kinds of things, but I can't promise things I can't live up to. What I am fully committed to is developing a good, modern, new pension system that can last for a number of decades in the future, so that everyone in the Netherlands can build up a good pension. You can hold me to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u12	In conclusion, Mr President, if that's all right with you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u13	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u14	There have been a lot of crises lately: the dotcom, the house bubble and so on. The average rate of return over the last few years was at 7%, so we are sure to recover from this crisis. But I find it very disappointing that the Minister says he's going to do something modern, but doesn't say that a good pension is an indexed pension. Extremely disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u15	Well, I think it's gonna be a bit of a politically lame game. Some of the returns achieved by pension funds in recent years are also linked to the decline in market interest rates. The decline in market interest rates has led to profits for pension funds on the bonds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs. Van Brenk, will you stand still for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u17	That is part of the explanation of the high returns of recent years. At the same time, if market interest rates fall, it becomes more expensive for pension funds to buy pension benefits. That is also the reality. If interest rates are lower and you have made promises to people to pay pensions in the future, it will be more expensive. I therefore find it a little faint that Mrs Van Brenn ends up like this after a number of interesting questions. Let us work together to put in place a good pension system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u18	I also find it always faint how the Minister reacts, because we are taking a measure that we ourselves have devised and which is not used anywhere in the world, which means that we count our poor. I'm gonna keep it up. A normal interest rate would solve a lot of problems. Perhaps the Minister can read Mr Van Prague's article in Me Judice one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u20	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u21	You may respond, but do not provoke. Then Mrs. Van Brenk can sit down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u22	No, I'm not gonna provoke you. I read Mr van Prague's articles in general very well. The only thing I want to say is that Mercer's annual comparison, which compares internationally the pension systems in which the Netherlands is well represented, shows that the top 3 pension systems in the world count the Scandinavian and the Netherlands with a low discount rate, with a low discount rate. This is one of the characteristics of a good pension system. But that's completely out of the question. We're going to discuss this at length at the AO Pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-03-tweedekamer-3.u23	Sure. There will be a proposal for the summer. Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I would also like to thank the Minister.
