ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the proposal for a law of the Member Verhoeven regulating a balancing process for the use of vulnerabilities in automated works by the government, in short, the Zerodays Weighing Process Act, Room Document 35257. I would like to welcome the initiator, Mr Verhoeven. I would also like to welcome the Ministers for Justice and Security and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. They will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. It is customary that the initiator has support in box K, but in connection with the corona measures, the possibility of being present in the plenary room is kept to a minimum. You're alone, Mr Verhoeven. I hope that you will be able to do the same, no doubt with people who provide you with advice from a distance. Today we are discussing the first term of office. The continuation is planned, as usual, in consultation with the initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u2	I give the floor to Mr Van Meenen as the first speaker on the side of the Chamber. He will speak on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u3	Mr. Chairman. Of course, I shall begin with a word of thanks to Mr Verhoeven. The right of initiative is an important instrument in which the Chamber can fulfil its democratic role. There's gonna be a lot of work in there, as many of us know. That deserves praise. As it happens, my maiden speech, almost eight years ago, was also about an initiative law by Mr Verhoeven. At that time, it was not about education, which I usually talk about, but about the Sunday opening of shops. That was fun and that's what it's gonna be today. Today there is a very different subject before it, but certainly not less important. It is a bill that should enhance our online security. This is something that has become even more important in these times of corona, as we are doing more and more online. How does this bill make us safer? Currently in the Netherlands three authorities have the power to hack, to invade devices. Those are the intelligence agencies, the police and the Defense Department. In order to be able to hack, they sometimes use so-called zero-days, or unknown vulnerabilities. These are errors in the software of, for example, a mobile phone, laptop or other digital device. If the government finds such a mistake, it's kept secret so that it can be used to hack. The problem is that others can also find the same mistake, for example criminals, foreign powers or other evildoers. Keeping an unknown vulnerability secret also keeps a device unsafe for hacks by others. On the one hand, therefore, keeping an unknown vulnerability open can be important for our national security. On the other hand, it can have adverse consequences for our online security, the security of the vital infrastructure, which also often uses digital systems, as well as for our economy and our privacy. It is therefore very important that a proper balance be struck between these different interests. Unfortunately, it is not so black and white that we can say that an unknown vulnerability must always or never be kept secret. This requires a good case-by-case assessment. An unknown vulnerability in software created by and for criminals requires a different consideration than an unknown vulnerability in a digital system used in our vital infrastructure, such as quays. This proposal provides for this balance to be made and for this to be done in a good way. In short, Mr President, it must therefore be handled responsibly. What is the situation with regard to current policy? The intelligence services are most aware of this dilemma and already have a separate process for this through the Committee Review Vulnerabilities. This process is very similar to the proposed process of the initiator, with the exception of a number of important elements, such as input from the vital infrastructure, participation in the decision of other stakeholders, transparency, etc. Such a trial is virtually or entirely absent from the police and from the Defense Department. In the case of Defense, the trial is completely absent. We can be brief about that, and in the case of the police, the judge-chief decides whether a zero-day can be kept open. My question to the initiator is whether he can answer the question as to why the police trial is not satisfactory. And how does the initiator look at the criticism that it might be better to have these kinds of trade-offs at sectoral level rather than by an overarching body? Mr. Chairman. In my view, it is important to note here that the current way in which the entire government deals with zero-days is not good. The intelligence services are reasonably on their way, but there too it can be better. The police and the DOD just didn't get it right. This bill creates a balancing process that does lead to responsible handling of zero-days. There will be a separate body that will have to make decisions for the entire government, including for the defence and police. All different interests in security, cybersecurity, vital infrastructure, privacy and the economy take place in the body and make a balanced decision together and there is transparency about that process. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have one question. The explanatory memorandum contains more on the composition and organisation of the balancing body than in the legal act itself. Can the initiator explain why he made this choice? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u5	As you know, I'm leaving you now, for urgent reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u6	Good luck. Mrs Buitenweg van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Let me also begin by congratulating Mr Verhoeven. He has taken the lead in many digitization topics in the Lower House. Once again, there is a good proposal on his part, which sometimes looks a bit technical, but which is very important for cyber security. It's a hell of a lot to get that done. For that, I would like to thank him and his staff, somewhere in this building. Digital devices play an increasingly important role in our lives: at work, at home, on the road and in public space. We are often attached to our smartphones, on which we call our kids.I have to speak for myself to make holiday plans, pay bills and manage our social media. But other appliances are getting smarter, from refrigerators to lawnmowers. All that hardware runs on software and there are countless rules and programming codes behind it. These codes are by definition not infallible; they also contain numerous errors and vulnerabilities. As Mr Van Meenen has just said, some of these vulnerabilities make it possible for outsiders to enter and thus potentially lay their hands on much and sometimes sensitive information. Vulnerabilities are backdoors. There may be very legitimate reasons for giving yourself access through such a back door, for example to the intelligence and security services, in order to gain access to the communications of criminals, terrorists or hostile state actors. So it is a way of tackling crime and making the Netherlands safer. At the same time, of course, there are also malicious parties interested in these vulnerabilities. That is what crime is all about. And that is the very complicated dilemma of this subject. Are we going to leave the software creator in the dark, or are we going to be able to mason the back door? But then we won't be able to get through it ourselves. Such a dilemma, of course, involves a balancing framework and a whole process. A uniform framework for the use of zero-days was missing from this initiative proposal by Mr Verhoeven. In that sense, Mr Verhoeven has actually identified a hitherto unknown potential vulnerability in our legal framework, a zero-day. Fortunately, he has come to the decision to inform us as a Chamber and a government. That is why we have this debate. I also have a number of questions for the Minister, because frankly I understand a lot of what the initiator has written. I could go with an end in there. I also have a few questions for the Minister about the different balancing frameworks that the services use. In her opinion, are there not only different balancing frameworks for hacking, but also for using zero-days as a means of hacking into hacking? Are there any big differences in that? If that's the case, what problems could she possibly have to deal with? Are the various interests and risks between the services being weighed in one way or another? If so, where does that happen? If that is not the case, then it seems logical to me that there is a possibility that the various services harm each other, for example when the police reveal a zero-day that the AIVD uses frequently. I would like to know from the author how big this problem really is in practice. Has he seen a theoretical exercise in particular, or is this really a big problem in practice? Mr Verhoeven proposes that a separate committee be set up. My question is whether this new committee is necessary by definition when establishing a uniform balancing framework, or whether this framework can also be applied by the existing committees, such as the Committee on Notifications of Vulnerabilities. How does he see the possibilities of improving the Commission's Notices of Vulnerabilities, for example as regards transparency? To what extent would that already respond to the problems that have prompted him to write this bill? Then I have a point about the zero-days that is mainly substantive. They're potentially huge risks. With the wrong people at the wrong back door, that could lead to the kind of social disruption that the WRR has warned us about. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, the choice not to reveal a zero-day really has to be made only in exceptional cases. I have three more questions on that. I see the starting point'report, unless' not very well worked out. The initiator pleads for a majority decision, because the Dutch balancing body would balance between parties that would generally benefit from keeping zero-days open and parties that are more inclined to reveal the zero-days. It has been suggested by others that 15% of participants should already be reported. My question is whether such a lower threshold would not be preferable, because this would force parties such as the intelligence services to be truly convincing to get parties that are usually for revelation of the existence of the zero-days, such as the Ministry of EZK or the Personal Data Authority. I'd like a response from the petitioner. The proposal regulates the process. In addition, would it not be wise to give some more guidance on the considerations to be made? One example of this would be that buying zero-days, or not mentioning them, is not considered when it comes to software that is really widely used by ordinary consumers, precisely because of the impact on the safety of all of us. I would also like to ask how the balancing framework relates to sharing information about zero-days with allies and receiving such information through the same channel. That question remained unanswered in the written round, because the initiator says he does not have any information on it. I would like to hear that from the Minister. Finally, I come to the market for the hacking software. If we think about it a little longer, it is of course quite strange that the government is entering that market as a customer. It is sometimes valuable to try to translate these digital subjects into the analogue world. Now, if I know that Lisa Smit from Dorpsstraat 52 has always opened her back door, can I just sell that information to Jan and alleman, who can use it to their advantage? I would like to pass on that question to the Minister of Justice and Security. Is it allowed to sell that information? The initiator suggests that the new balancing committee would also deal with the purchase of hacking software. I'm just trying to follow that up for a second, because I'm wondering if the balancing of that hacking software is always the same as the revealing of zero-days. Doesn't that ask for a slightly different, separate consideration sometimes? I'd like a comment on that. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to comment on the extent to which the Dutch State is entering the hacking software market. How many products do we buy there every year? How much money is involved in this? How does the consideration of doing so take place at the moment? It is important in this respect how supervision of that market is regulated. What can we do, both at national and European level and internationally, to improve this monitoring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u8	Thank you, Mrs Buitenweg. I now give the floor to Mr Middendorp of the VVD. I call Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u9	Mr President, if everything is whole again, I will begin. Turns out it wasn't whole. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am allowed to do so on behalf of the CDA Group here tonight, so I am speaking on behalf of them on request. Mr. Chairman. There may be errors in software that are not known to its creators. These vulnerabilities unknown to the cybersecurity industry, or zero-days, can be used, if detected by evildoers, to break into digital networks and carry out cyber attacks. It is very important to combat this abuse of digital vulnerabilities. It is therefore very good that the Member Verhoeven here, as he always calls attention to this issue, has also called attention to the cybersecurity side. Cyber attacks can damage our national security, economy and civil rights. The Cybersecurity image of the Netherlands shows that the amount and advancedness of these cyber attacks in the Netherlands is increasing year by year. In December last year we had Citrix. Because of the corona crisis, everyone in the Netherlands went digital. So the disruptive effects of this kind of cyberattacks have increased. These cyber attacks, which are also regularly carried out by enemy states, can shut down ports, disrupt elections and digitally rob banks. All this means that the Netherlands must therefore have an offensive strategy to combat cybercrime, cyberespionage and cybersabotage. That is what this debate is about. A zero-day vulnerabilities detected by the search and intelligence services in soft or hardware must be reported in principle, we have just heard, so that the risk of abuse by evildoers can be removed. However, it may be necessary for our national security not to report such a vulnerability. Our services can then use them themselves to hack terrorists or try to prevent foreign espionage services from hacking us. The question of what should happen if a new zero-day vulnerability is discovered is therefore a very justified one of the initiators. For the VVD, the answer to that question is that if it is necessary from national security, the investigation services, AIVD and STIVD should continue to be able to hack within their mandates. Mr. Chairman. Given its importance, it is to be commended, as I said, that the initiator has put a lot of time and energy into this initiative proposal. The CDA and VVD groups have many questions about what is being proposed. Is the solution to make the weighing process fully uniform and to have a new broad, very broad, balancing body determine whether or not a zero-day can be used by our services or Defense? The balancing body to determine in the proposals whether discovered zero-days can be kept secret consists of NCSC, AIVD, STPD, police, OM, FIOD, Defense, EZK, IenW and the Personal Data Authority. That sounds like a big club. Let us not forget the practice of intelligence operations. A zero-day must sometimes be weighed by services with knowledge about the goals. This is often compartmentalised information, which cannot be weighed in a broad balancing body without making very large investments to avoid risks to secrecy. Those risks are not in the system of TIB and CTIVD control. In short, does the proposed broad balancing body justify the nature of the investigation and intelligence work, which is often served by secrecy and effectiveness? In doing so, the initiator considers it possible for the proposed broad balancing body to require an intelligence service to report a zero-day, while this service does not agree. According to the VVD Group, that should not be the outcome. Does the initiator agree with me that intelligence services should continue to be able to act efficiently within their mandate in order to counter and prevent cyber threats? Mr. Chairman. The Council of State states that the existing framework is already broadly uniform and provides for a sufficient standard setting through a sector-specific approach. The discussion about this between the initiator and the Council of State gives the impression that the initiator explains the difference of understanding through a misunderstanding, but is there not simply a difference of opinion? I also ask the Minister of the Interior how she assesses the criticism of the Council of State. Of course, we must prevent services from interacting with each other, but there are other ways of cooperating with investigation services and intelligence services that are less radical than the proposals before us, for example the step announced this week to make intelligence services, Justice and anti-terrorism organisations more physically cooperate with each other in order to better share information about threats on the Internet, called Cyber Intel/Info Cel. Another example could be a line from the judge-supervisor to the decision-making bodies in the intelligence services. At present, the Law on Intelligence and Security Services is also being reviewed by the Jones Commission. Can that committee also look at possible improvements to the existing zero-days framework and include that in its evaluation? I ask the Minister of the Interior to do the same. Mr President, I shall conclude. The answers of the initiator to the questions of the groups of VVD and CDA and the government's position are important, because this is a very important issue. The effective fight against cyber espionage and cybercrime is crucial for the security and prosperity of the Dutch. The question remains whether a one-size-fits-all uniform framework, a broad review body, offers the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u10	Thank you. Finally, Mr Van Raak of the SP has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Spying goes through a hole. It used to go through a hole in a newspaper and nowadays it goes through a hole in a software system: zero-days, unknown vulnerabilities, software errors. The author, Mr Verhoeven, whom I would like to thank for this law, rightly says that there are a lot of vulnerabilities, mistakes, in software. Some of them can be used to spy, for example by the secret services: the AIVD and the STIVD. When that happens, there are rules for that and a balance must be made. The petitioner rightly states that this is not the case with the police, the army, the FIOD and other organisations that use vulnerabilities to hack/spionage, and he proposes to create a balancing framework for this. He has already given some insight into his explanation of this law. What I would like to ask him first is what are the differences between the decision-making frameworks of our secret services and those of other organisations, such as the police, the defence, the FIOD and others who use them. A fundamental question is whether we should allow such vulnerabilities to continue. The government, of course, has the task of protecting the safety of our citizens. If we know that there is a vulnerability somewhere that can be used for espionage, hacking, eavesdropping, what is the government's job? Basically, I'd say close those holes. Because I'm sure if we can use that vulnerability to spy, so can others. If we can do that, the NSA can do it even better and the Chinese can do it even better. And maybe the mob can do better than that. So why do we even allow such vulnerabilities to exist? And with whom? You can use a software system specifically for a mob gang. You can find a vulnerability in that and use it to eavesdrop, spy. But it can also be done with third parties. That makes quite a difference. Of course, Mr Verhoeven has all the security on his computer that is possible and his front door is closed. But suppose there's an unknown vulnerability and the police use his computer to infiltrate, hack into a criminal organization, and that organization is wise enough to hack back into the police. Yes, what about Mr Verhoeven's safety? How far does that have to go? Mrs Buitenweg rightly said that there is a whole trade in vulnerabilities, a whole industry, a whole market. Dutch organisations, Dutch government organisations are also entering that market. How far away are we from the principle of protecting our citizens when we are so far away that we are going to market the vulnerabilities of our citizens? That's a question. This is all about unknown vulnerabilities of the producers, of the writers of software. It's about zero-days. This means that the producer has not had a chance to repair it. But there is another matter I would like to put to the Minister of the Interior. It's about conscious mistakes. There are a lot of vulnerabilities in software, and they're not all accidentally in it, but it's also done on purpose. And hack into our government agencies, but we don't make that stuff. In the Netherlands, I don't think hacking software is created. We have to buy all that in the United States, in China, in Israel. We buy it everywhere. And how naive is the Minister if she thinks there are no conscious vulnerabilities in it? I say that's a hundred percent sure. I'm willing to put a bottle of wine on that. Of course! If our AIVD, the STUDY, the police, the army, the FIOD, as anyone who buys hacking stuff in China, in the United States, in Israel, what are the chances that there are vulnerabilities in there so that there's spying on them? I don't know what the chairman thinks about that. I think that's a hundred percent chance. I would like to put that question to the Minister for the Interior, and I would like to hear her response to that. And maybe it's a good suggestion to develop more of that stuff yourself. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u12	Thank you to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-18-tweedekamer-10.u13	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. As I have just said, the continuation of this debate on this initiative proposal will, of course, be planned in close coordination with Mr Verhoeven and the two directors.
