ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the valuation of healthcare workers. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care. I give the floor to Mr Klaver as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Last week wasn't pretty. The coalition ran away so we couldn't vote on a motion to raise salaries. But that's behind us. Today we are here to look to the future with each other and to make sure that the people who work in care get what they deserve. The cabinet has sent a letter explaining why that is not possible. That letter really scared the shit out of me. It shows how difficult the economic situation is in the Netherlands. It indicates that there has actually been enough money in the care sector in recent years. This ignores the real situation in the care sector. Care is the sector that must keep us healthy and that has worked overtime over the last few months. There are a lot of people working for the minimum wage. If you get 3%, that's not enough. There are many nurses who earn just over €2,000 on a full-time contract, and who have to save lives. They deserve us to take a step further. And yes, we are facing very difficult economic times. Actually, we're in the middle of that. It's a big crisis. If we ask the Dutch people for sacrifices, I am convinced that they are prepared to do so. That even applies to people in care. But if, on the one hand, you give billions to KLM and plan to present 2 billion euros at Prinsjesdag this year by lowering corporate tax, and on the other hand you say you don't have any money for the care, then you just have a bad story. In addition, we promised each other that we would appreciate care better and that we would not leave it to applause. The bonus is nice and welcome, but it's not enough. It is time to turn our applause and warm words into very hard deeds. That means a structural wage increase. I hope that we shall vote in favour of the motions which will be put to the vote shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. The problems in the care to find enough people and to give enough appreciation were already there. But Corona puts a magnifying glass on the problems in our society and shows them very loudly. This applies to the public sector as a whole, but certainly to care. Of course it is not easy and it costs a lot of money, but I think we should talk about what can be done in this debate. What can we do about it? What can we improve? How can we make opposition and coalition work together? I think that's necessary. I spoke to a nurse at the Máxima Hospital in Veldhoven. He told me what it means to wear one of those suits while someone's very nervous about covid. She told me about the extra stress that that causes and about the unusual situation. She also said: we have now been able to get here from other locations and from far and wide colleagues, but how will that work in the future? This is an urgent problem for the people who are getting sick, for the people who work in care and for our economy. Our defence against the pandemic is ultimately formed by people who do this work. My plea is as follows. We received a letter from the cabinet saying no in 21 pages. It's not true that it can't. We have to agree on that. 1% raise costs 560 million. That's a lot of money. That is exactly the amount that the coalition has allocated to reducing the top rate, the tax for the richest people. So you can really do that differently. Let's not talk about whether we can, but whether we want to. My compelling appeal to all Members of Parliament would be to send the cabinet away with an order: look at what can be done, look at the people with a low starting salary, look at the places where the deficits are greatest. That is ultimately in the interests of the people in the care, but also of the country as a whole. Let us not allow ourselves to be dismissed with a contradiction between the economy, costs and price, but let us look at the value of why this is important and why it is actually an investment in the future to enable much more appreciation and more salary for people in care today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Mr Wilders has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Madam President. What an incredibly embarrassing display last week when dozens of members of the coalition parties ran out of the House of Representatives because they were too scared and too cowardly to vote on my motion asking for a structurally substantial salary increase for care workers. What a blow to the face of all those care workers. The coalition applauds for the care, but when it comes to it, they run away with their tails between their legs. So you should also be ashamed of yourself, I say to colleagues Becker, Bergkamp, Bolkestein, Van Dam, Diertens, Dijkstra, El Yassini, Geluk-Poortvliet, Geurts, De Groot, Harbers, Heerema, Heerma, Hermans, Koopmans, Laan-Geselschap, Van der Linden, Van Meenen, Mulder, Paternotte, Raemakers, Rog, Schonis, Segers, Sjoerdsma, Slootweg, Smals, Terpstra, Van Toorenburg, Voordewind, Wiersma, Van Wijngaarden and Ziengs. All those running MPs get about €6,000 net per month for pulling sprints to the parking garage if they had to vote once in the eight weeks of summer vacation they have. But a novice mbo nurse who doesn't run away, takes his or her responsibility, cleans the buttocks of sick people and lovingly cares for people, earns about €2,250 gross. That's less than $1,900 a month. All those caregivers and caregivers who care for people at home and in the nursing homes, wash, dress up and take to the toilet, start with a salary of net €1,300 per month. How unfair can it be? The hard-working good guys in care get a crumb and the running MPs get a fortune. And how unfair it is that the cabinet does not have money for our care workers, but it does scatter billions in Europe. France also receives money from us: 50 billion euros as a gift. Italy: €85 billion as a gift, Spain: €71 billion as a gift, and even Germany: €47 billion as a gift. It's outrageous! So don't be cheap! Give our care heroes a substantial and structural salary increase! Vote for the motions that are about to go on, including my motion. Finally. The coalition has no majority. One member of the coalition who says "I take the side of the concern and I vote with the opposition" will write history today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of the corona crisis I spoke here about my neighbor. My neighbor works at the nursing home near me. She then had to do her job without sufficient protective equipment, only with gloves. She got sick. As it turned out, the lady she cared for and who had no complaints then, died a week and a half later from corona, just like three other people in her department. My neighbor got even sicker and ended up in the hospital Bernhoven, which we saw so often during the first peak in the NOS-Journaal. She had to spend a week on oxygen, alone and afraid to die, afraid to never really get better. Luckily she recovered and last week she went back to the nursing home, to work, the work where she got so sick. She went there to help again and to start up and build herself up a little bit. And what did she hear there: on September 30th your contract expires and we're not going to renew it; you're fired, you're out on the street. Mr. Chairman. How is it possible that we deal with our people in this way? The people who pulled us through the first corona spike. The people we need in the second corona peak, all of them, one at a time, one at a time. The people of whom we know and now hear that a substantial part is considering doing something else simply because they are no longer able to keep up the pressure for years the workload has been very high because they are tired, because they are not sufficiently appreciated and because it should only be with that applause. We simply cannot afford that. I think that the coalition should be ashamed of itself when it says that there would be no money for higher salaries in care, but there would be money to give tax relief again to those big companies that are already making profits and are already doing well. We have two motions for resolutions on which we are going to vote today. One is: pay in health care up. The other is to waive the tax reduction. I call on everyone to support it. One: because our care deserves it. Two: because the Netherlands desperately needs these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	I support Mrs Marijnissen's argument that people in care must earn more and also get more. I would like to take her to the motion that she has tabled, in order to peel it off a little bit. Mr Wilders' motion is very limited. It's for the people who get the health bonus. Your call is: let the care workers earn more. There's a lot of ways to do that. I'd like to peel off with you the way you see fit. You have argued for 5%. Is that 5% for everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	That is what we discussed in the previous debate. At that time, my plea was as follows, and I shall repeat it here. We think that money should go to the workplace. These are the helpers, the caretakers, the nurses, the people who do the work every day, the people who work nights, who work weekends, who are always ready, who have pulled us through the first corona peak. That's where the salary increase's gonna go. We believe that this should be settled today, because it is far too easy to say, like the cabinet, that we are not really talking about that, that is at the collective bargaining tables. Everyone knows that the government is of course a very important player when it comes to determining how much space there is for raising salaries in care. That is why our proposal, on which we are indeed going to vote today, is very concrete. Prinsjesdag is on the doorstep soon and at the latest then it has to be clear how the salaries in care go up and then it has to be settled, simply because we don't have the time and cannot afford to wait any longer. When the second wave is at the door, he'll come and we'll need all those people one by one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	We will be making a plea later to think not as a percentage but in pennies. In France they give everyone net €183. This means many times more for the lower scales. Would I find the SP on my side?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	One sentence, Mr. Chairman. The most important thing for us is that the money, the structural appreciation, goes to the people who do the work, the people on the work floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr President. At the beginning of the corona crisis, when it was clear that there was a very heavy burden on the people in care, who had no job to do all day long, everyone agreed: these people are doing heavy and important work with danger for their own lives. Everyone in this room and in box-K had a nod of approval. Oh, oh, oh, what did we think those people dragged us through? When the question came to appreciate that a bit normally, it became look away, difficult to do. Who's gonna pay for that? Well, that's what proposals are for. We're about to vote on that. Mrs Marijnissen mentioned it at the beginning: there is no need to reduce the tax on profits. Those companies are doing fine. In these times, when we call on the whole of the Netherlands to show solidarity, you do the same for those companies. The Prime Minister is shaking no. The Party for Animals has an additional solution. The affordability of care is indeed an issue, but this cabinet, the cabinet for it, the cabinet for it and the cabinet for it have made a big profit for decades making the Netherlands unhealthy. Half the Dutch are overweight. Those people are at extra risk if they get infected with corona. I asked the cabinet about it during the Corona debates. People would respond. There has been a letter since 3 June: no action. The fast food chains just have to be a big deal. They make a billion sales per year in the Netherlands. Coca-Cola makes gold money here! Don't take care of those companies and give Aunt Sjaan the shit out of him: the Party for Animals thinks it's unbelievable! Now this commitment to prevention, because the justice to which the cabinet relies must first come from the cabinet itself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. Raise the salaries in health care: well, if you ask it like that and put it like that in relation to the great achievement that has been achieved, who doesn't want that? Then there's a motion that says exactly that, so you just vote for it, right? How hard can it be? Mr. Chairman. I will vote against the motion later, but I am in favour of increasing salaries in health care. That is why it is good that people in hospitals receive a total of 8% in two years. That is why it is good that people in nursing and home care get 6.5% in two steps. That's why it's a good thing that in this particular corona year, this extra-heavy year, we give a one-off health bonus, as you also give someone on the air hazard premium, as we used to call it. With that bonus, in addition to the applause, we also show our appreciation for that extraordinary effort of caring for patients and saving lives. That is why it is also a good thing that next year, as every year, there will be room for an increase in healthcare pay. So the salaries in the care sector are rising, and they may rise again next year. There is room for that, and I wholeheartedly support it. I think there are quite a few other sectors, where people do crucial work and work very hard, who would sign up for that. Is that supposed to make everyone happy? No, of course not. There's always room for improvement. When you talk to people in care, you hear that they know exactly what that room for improvement is. No one's gonna start talking about money right away. It starts with more work fun, less check-in lists, more support in receiving the children when asked to be flexible and jump in suddenly. More appreciation for the specific running of irregular services. When roasting more based on what is healthy for the employee, rather than what is convenient for the organisation. Also things like making healthy food and powernaps available during night shifts. And yes, also the salary, but in the first instance it is often a question of solving very specific bottlenecks, such as the starting salary for certain functions or the growth possibilities. I would like to ask the Cabinet to zoom in on these specific problems and to help the people in care, in addition to the salary increases that are to come, to help them do their job better and more pleasantly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	I should have said it in the beginning, but I want to allow two interruptions in the first period. That could be an interruption in two or four questions. It's up to you to decide whether to put it in succession in the first term of the Chamber. I shall go first to Mr Klaver, then to Mr Wilders and then to Mrs Marijnissen. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	Over the past ten years, the time when the VVD was in power, you can see that the pressure on care and administrative pressure has increased enormously. Due to the market forces that have been introduced, there has been increasing pressure. I find it striking that the VVD is now saying that this is actually not good and that we should change it. I very much agree with that. But you can't trade that in for the salary demand, can you? Let me take the positive. If Mr Dijkhoff proposes to look at the bottlenecks, does he agree with me that it is a bottleneck that people in care are doing very important work for the minimum wage?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	What really becomes a bit of a platitude is to attribute all the problems in the care to the word "market operation." We really need more than just one debate, but there is not very much market power in care. I'm not sad about that, by the way. There is a persistent tendency, including politicians, to want to monitor matters very closely, especially after incidents, and to want things to be recorded and kept up to date. When I listened to my mother's justified complaints as a nurse, the word "market operation" was not so often mentioned there, but it was true that someone had invented something that needed to be registered, which meant that they had more time to fill in what they had done than they had time to do it. That's a stubborn monster. As a cabinet or as a chamber, we have not said for ten years: it is actually quite alright, just do more rules. For ten years, we've been actively trying to get those rules removed with scrapings. Sometimes it works with a few. Sometimes one comes back on a detour. Sometimes, after an incident, we still need more grip and control. It's an effort you have to keep making. Now, in corona time, a lot of rules are forced to be thrown overboard for a while. Let's not let them come back automatically, but let's see if they need to come back at all. Then I'll get to the second part. I understand that everyone says that you can, of course, free up money. You can raise the premiums. You can raise charges. You can't let burden reliefs in the books go on. Of course it's a matter of will. But I don't like to look at the subject as if I think it's super important and then end up with a promise. Then we have that with the teachers, then we have that with culture, then we have that with entrepreneurs, then we have that with the catering industry, then we have that with the contractors, with the construction. Then I always end up with a promise: yes, I would like less rules, more money and less burdens for you. If I have to add it up, I can't figure it out. I do not have the right story at all, as Mr Klaver said, but then I might end up with something that means good policy. So I'm not going to raise false expectations about the other things here either. Even if you were to delete all the things mentioned by the opposition, I don't know if it would be the best choice to spend that, given how we stand now in the crisis, it's not a donation to investments in healthcare salaries. I'm not saying it wouldn't be smart, either, but I think it's too easy to say that in advance before you can see the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	I think we can get a good look at the picture. When we said to each other in the spring that the salaries in care had to be improved, we knew that there was an economic crisis coming. We are now seeing what deficits are threatening. And yes, the cabinet has promised that large companies will get a tax cut, but a promise has also been made about what we need to do for care. We can't do everything; let's be very honest. It's not easy. There is economic contraction and it is difficult to get money together, but ultimately it is about political choices. A very hard, sharp political choice ahead of us is: are we giving money to reduce the burden on large businesses or are we using that money to increase wages in care? The VVD says here: we're just not going to choose; we're not going to choose to increase those wages. I don't think that's fair. That's not the whole picture. I'm not okay with that. Just at this time, when the people in the care sector have been working their asses off, when we see huge deficits, when people are having doubts about leaving that care, I think we should take a step further as a political step now and against those big companies that are still making profits, because then you are just going to have to pay profit tax and say: sorry, you are not getting your tax discount now and it is going to go to health care. I think they'd agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	There are really a few things in Mr Klaver's speech that I want to correct. Well, I'm in favour of a salary increase in health care. I have mentioned in my story what increases in health care are coming, have been set in motion, for which there is still room for and will continue. We're discussing something else here. Those motions are not about whether there should be a salary increase in health care. Those motions concern the question of whether there should be any further increase in healthcare pay. That is a legitimate political point on which you can disagree. But even if we don't, there are salary increases in care. I am more in favour of tackling focussed bottlenecks in care. They could also be on sale. I'd like to take a good look at that and then do it. In addition, when it comes to the tax on profits, it is always said that they are large companies. They are also among them, but the very large companies usually regulate it so that profits are not taxed too heavily and take place in different countries. These are also just entrepreneurs and SMEs. I am just saying here: even if you choose not to do so, I still do not want to give the impression that healthcare salaries are the best goal to spend that money in this economic crisis. If you have a family where the husband is a nurse and the wife works at a private company, with an entrepreneur, with an SME, then I think they would prefer us to make sure that the best chance is that both jobs still exist than we are saying in advance that one job is going to earn more, but that this might be at the expense of the possibility of helping companies get through in this economic crisis, of which we are only at the beginning, not to fall and keep jobs. Whatever instrument is best for that is another story. Mr Klaver is a no-brainer, but I think that those people at the kitchen table understand very much that we are doing our best to keep as many people at work as possible, rather than focusing everything on raising salaries in one sector in advance, even more than is already happening. That is what is happening, and that is what they deserve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	It is really not a pen to describe, and in fact it is a shame that the VVD colleague is literally saying here: I am not convinced that in an economic crisis it is a good decision to increase salaries in healthcare further. But your party and the Prime Minister of your party seem to think it is a good idea in this economic crisis to wave billions as a gift to countries in Europe. I told you: 85 billion as a gift to Italy, which the Netherlands simply pays 6%. For example, 50 billion goes to France and 45 billion to Germany. That is also in the economic crisis. And do you know what the French are going to do, Mr. Dijkhoff? This year the French are going to give their care staff €2,000 a year in annual salary. How can you sell that those people in the Netherlands... Moreover, it is shameful that they are not mentioned in the cabinet letter. It is shameful that the minister who is now complaining with the Prime Minister does not write in her letter about levels 1, 2 and 3, the caregivers, the helpers and the caregivers, the majority of the people who work in the care and nursing homes. You didn't spend one sentence on that in your letter? And why? Because they earn €1,250, €1,300 or €1,400 net per month. Then 3% on nothing is still nothing. Then you say as a VVD: we are going to the Italians, the Spanish, the Germans and the French too. But to the people who wash the buttocks of the people at home or in the nursing home for €1,300 a month, you say: look at it, we have an economic crisis. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	I don't have to do anything at all, especially if Mr Wilders says so, because if we listen to that, we'll keep going. What Mr Wilders is doing is rhetorically smart and very attractive, because you just say: money goes abroad, I don't know those people and they will have made it their own and there are people here who work hard and I give more money. That's possible, that's a choice. Then these people will have a better time next year or perhaps the year after or perhaps the next five years; the economies in other countries will be calving off, where we will have a great deal of trouble in a number of years. I think we should look beyond our noses and beyond the next few years and not just think about which people you'd like the most. We need to see how we keep making money as the Netherlands. That's not because I'd like money now, but because that's the way you can raise your salaries. As a result, you can also ensure that, also looking at the salary increase that is there every year in the care, that appointment that you have and which already leads to significant percentages, not only this year and next year but also the years before, you keep keeping money and earning money to have good care and to allow people to work in it, to have good education and to be able to pay the teachers and to pay police officers, defense and everything, and to be able to have a bit of a nice life and get ahead of things. Then you have to look at the long term and plan back. And I'm afraid this isn't always the best story, but sometimes helping others is actually helping yourself more so that we can continue to make money and collect taxes so that we can all continue to pay the care, education, the police and the army.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	Did Mr. Dijkhoff just say "have a nice life"? Yes, I understand that you have that with €6,000 net per month, but those people at level 1 earn €1,250 net per month, the people at level 2 €1,300 and the people at level 3 €1,400 net per month. 40 hours a week wash people's buttocks and accompany people to the bathroom, comb hair. That is all very important work for all those elderly people who have made the Netherlands great. Those people in care don't have $6,000 like you and me, Mr. Dijkhoff. They didn't. They don't have that nice life. I think you were elected by the Dutch electorate, not by the electorate in Italy, Spain and Frankijk. So this is a very legitimate question after all? That doesn't have anything to do with tricks, does it? It is very legitimate that these people who earn less than a quarter of what you net earn wonder why this Dijkhoff and this Rutte give those billions to the French who are going to increase their salaries. That's unfair, isn't it? You're a Dutch parliamentarians, aren't you? Raise those people's salaries and do it a lot. If you need that money for that, take it away from those gifts, because they are gifts we make to the Italians and the French. Even Germany, a rich country, has received more than 40 billion in donations. Stop it, give it to our people!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	You do not hear me complaining about the salary I receive and that Mr Wilders himself is receiving, but it is also crucial for all those who have lower salaries to keep looking ahead to ensure that those jobs remain there. I would also prefer not to give money to other countries and rather not to contribute to other economies so that we can continue to sell our products there, continue to make money and then employ people in healthcare. But you have to look at the longer term. And of course that's not tomorrow, you can't take that to the bank right now. But that is what we have been chosen for here: not only to ensure that it is now going on in the Netherlands, but also to ensure that we can continue to do so for those people, whom I give more salary, who also receive more salary and for whom there is more salary every year. We must ensure that we can continue to do so and that we can continue to make money as a means of doing all these beautiful things and ensuring that those people have a job. Because in a few years' time, because the whole European economy is falling apart, life is not going to be any better if you have to make all sorts of cuts and fire people, as we did last time in the banking crisis. I don't think that's more comfortable for those people. And so I think we need to see our responsibility wider than just looking at what is now pleasant and what sounds good. And as much as I'd like to give it to people, it's the question of whether that's the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Unbelievable! Mr Dijkhoff has once again shown himself to be a hard liberal who has little to do with care. This is about making money. I really think Mr. Dijkhoff is setting up a mockery. He turns the healthcare provider off against the SME's. That is, of course, not the issue at all. Of course, money has to be made. We all understand that, Mr. Dijkhoff. But the problem is, of course, that in recent years, when a huge amount of money was made, that money did not end up in the care of those people either. And it often didn't end up with those SMEs and the ordinary people, but it went to the shareholders. And let that be exactly the proposal that we are making today: stop the plan to reduce the tax on profits even further for large companies. Those profits do not go to the workplace, to the people who have worked for them; they go to the shareholders and put that money in the salary increase for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think it's getting a little nice now. I hear speakers making the link between economic and care measures all the time. Then I'll go into that neatly. Then I give my analysis neatly. And then you say, you turn them against each other, you turn them against each other. I did not start here with the deletion of those measures and then promise them to care. I will respond to what you and your colleagues have contributed. I didn't bring up the Vpb and all kinds of other things, and I didn't start connecting with those things. So don't rub me for turning people against each other. I am explaining, among other things, with that example of a family whose one person works in care and the other at a company, that it is not so simple to say: delete this and give it to the other, because they are all bad people or something, or they don't need it and we give it the most. It's not a competition. Mrs Marijnissen now says: you don't give them any more money than you already have, so you don't care about the care. It's all right and the elections are coming, but this is no way to be constructive. You can both have a heart for the people in care and have a heart for hardworking entrepreneurs, and then find a balance in it. I'm genuinely trying to do that. You may, of course, make a completely different assessment, but I do not deny that you do not give a damn about entrepreneurs. I only correct that when it is said here "that's for large companies," it doesn't necessarily happen. There are also a lot of SMEs in it. It may well be a good story, but I am still not convinced that it is best to give public salaries an additional increase on top of the increase that has already been planned. You shouldn't just look at what's fun right now, which is good now, and how much we want to reward people. We've already talked ourselves into not being able to appreciate people if you don't give them more money. I think that's a little weird. People's applause is being called into question because they do not vote for motions with even more money. I don't think we're doing the country any favors by talking about each other like that. I think you genuinely want to give people in care more money and make a different assessment of the impact on the economy of certain measures than I do. We simply need to be able to disagree on the substance of the matter, without bringing in all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'm not pulling anything. It is the cabinet of Mr Dijkhoff who himself sent a 21-page letter last night, explaining only that it cannot be done. It is said that they want it and that they think it is very important, but that it cannot be because there is no money and because it is a crisis. And that is why, Mr Dijkhoff, we are coming up with a very constructive proposal, as you also want to see it paid for. That's the first thing. Secondly, on what the Netherlands needs. I find it really inconceivable that Mr Dijkhoff should say: even if there were money, I do not really know whether that increase in healthcare salaries should be at the top of my list. I'd like to ask him the following question. Does he realize that a substantial part of the people who work in care are currently considering doing something else? Does he realize that in two years' time we'll have an estimated deficit of 80,000 people in health care? Already! Is he realizing that a second corona peak, we hope it's not all possible, that we need all those caregivers one-on-one hard? Does he realize that we are heading for a disaster and does he recognise that if we fail to keep all those caregivers for care now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	I realize that. I also realize that the people who are considering leaving care put the salary in seventh place and that there are six topics that they consider more important reasons to leave possibly than this, for relativization. I also realize that we have deficits in other sectors, both public and private. I also realize that we are dealing with a silver-plated population, which will cause more and more people to stop working and fewer people to start working. And that you don't have to focus on one deficit: we're going to do a lot of money right now to fix that, and then we're going to take this. Then we keep doing that, and eventually we still have deficits everywhere. We will have to have more creative solutions than think it's just the payoff. And I also realize that there are a lot of companies that have to choose now: can I still keep my people in service? Am I gonna make it to the end of the month? Those are not big companies with big profits; they are just people, SMEs who are now in a corona crisis, who don't know if they're gonna make it to the end of the month, who already have their savings in it. People who have jobs and wonder: do I still have my job next year? I think we should weigh up all these achievements and not pick one out of them, then throw someone at their feet and say: if you realize that, then you must do so. I think you should look at all that side by side and then make painful choices. Sometimes there is no more wage increase than there is now, and sometimes we will not be able to save sectors, which means jobs are lost. That's the hard truth; I can make it nicer with a good story, but a good story doesn't do you much good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	The choice made by the VVD is clear and is especially painful for the care workers who have had a hard time on those intensive care units in nursing homes and so on over the last few months. But I'd like to take a broader look at it. Because it is not Marijnissen or Klaver or Asscher who starts about the linking of the economy and spending on care, it has been the VVD. Because an agreement was reached in 2018, the agreement on medical-specialist care, in which the VVD also endorsed that spending on care should not grow faster than economic growth. My question to the VVD is: do you hold on to this in these times of crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	If you even spend one afternoon looking into the cost of care... Every year the care costs us more. And that makes sense, because we all want to help each other as best we can. If you're sick, if you're suffering, you want help. The fact that the cost of care is higher is not the responsibility of the people in the care. That depends on our population composition. You have to take that into account. So if you don't slow down the cost, we're gonna lose so much money to make sure there's another bottleneck coming up. In the society in which we sit, there are more people every year who stop working after working hard and retire with a well-earned pension. The number of people coming back to do the job is getting smaller and smaller. Then you really have bigger problems than just criticizing the fact that you're trying to control costs. Otherwise, the premiums will go up a lot. I don't think people are waiting for that either. We shouldn't pretend that it doesn't mean you have a heart for a particular group or for people. I also speak to many people in the care that say: I find a salary increase quite interesting for all kinds of reasons, or perhaps pleasant or even necessary, but not because of corona, because I work in a department that was closed because of corona. So I find it too easy to always take the whole care as one category and say now because of corona: that proves that there needs to be more salary there. I think that is all of a complacency that destroys the real problems. That doesn't help those people either, I get that, but I don't want to raise false expectations. There will be a raise, but I do not want to raise expectations as to whether there is any more possible, one-off or structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	This question is mainly addressed in the context of Princess Day. It will come soon; in the background there will certainly be talks between the coalition parties about possible cuts or possible intensifications, including in the context of care. I cannot escape the impression that that is the case. My question was actually very simple. My question was: does the VVD maintain the principle that healthcare expenditure should not grow faster than the economy? I have not yet received an answer to that question. I would very much like to know that from the VVD as the largest party here, because they have a responsibility in that too. Because in recent years, we have seen spending on care increased less rapidly than the growth of the economy in general. Then you could also say yes, you can laugh at that. We can see what the challenges are for care, we can see what the challenges are for the people; the growth we have saved in recent times we are now putting into it, starting with the increase in the salaries of the care staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	Today, it is a matter of urgency, as if the Netherlands is no bigger than the care. Like that's our only problem. As if everything else, outside of care, is peachy, there's enough money for everything, everyone has a rosy life, and no problem. Mr Kuzu in his own right gives the impression, if you listen casually, that care is being cut back. He says: more went to care every year; that should have been even more, because the economy grew harder. I think you should make sure that care does not grow more structurally than the economy. But cost growth is never an end in itself, so you can't measure it. Is the care quality good? Do people have a decent salary? Are there any bottlenecks? Do we have room to fix it? I think that lessons have also been drawn in the care sector from corona that can save care costs. Take the increase in e-health. Perhaps you could use that saving again to solve other bottlenecks. I have mentioned a number of them which also have to do with salaries. I think you should look so smartly at how you can combine that in the years to come and just let the increases in healthcare that are planned continue. Mr Kuzu is right that we are not doing that behind the scenes these weeks; the journalists always know where we are.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why I am simply saying that I am not going to raise false expectations in advance, on the eve of the start of these talks, if I am not sure that I can deliver them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	I'm not gonna try to hear from the VVD whether she's gonna vote with the opposition on more salary, because that's not gonna work right now. But I do have another proposal that we might be able to agree on. When you look at the care workers, it's the people at the bed who complain about the bureaucracy, about all the lists they have to fill out. That's what a lot of money is about, money that goes to the managers and not to the people at the bed. Can we at least find each other in the fact that we are now accelerating this process so that people get what they really deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yeah, I'd like that to work better than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	Are you going to call on the cabinet with me to speed this up? We have been talking about it for years now, but people have wasted far too much time on this terrible bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	I asked the cabinet earlier in my story to see how to draw lessons from the corona time. Emergency breaks the law, so I'm assuming that care was given priority first and that the administration went in the backseat for a while. This can also give lessons from the workplace about which administration was not really necessary in those months. We'll have to use that to see if you can delete it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	I hear the VVD talking about the loss of other jobs and the increasing cost of care in the last few years. I think it's both true. But I would like to know what jobs Mr Dijkhoff means. The exploits at Vion's, which here turnover is 4.7 billion a year? The jobs created there are being filled by the most vulnerable workers imaginable. The Minister of Medical Care knows all about this, from her previous position. What kind of jobs are those? Shouldn't a company like Vion just go and pay for the out of control care costs? People have massive cardiovascular disease. Half of the adult Dutch people are obese, while Coca-Cola earns hundreds of millions a year here. Where's the justice of the VVD if that's what it's about? The VVD has a very bad reputation there. He stopped that, while a large part of this room wanted the sick man to pay once. After all, this also helps to keep the care a bit affordable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	That is in the liberal principle that we also have a great responsibility for each individual: each individual can take advantage of the offer and decide what it eats; we not only appeal to the producers. But those weren't the jobs I was talking about, to be honest. Make up a type of company, and there are some that are now in trouble because of corona. Yeah, the web stores might not. But for the rest, there are family businesses, SMEs and people who run a one-man business with staff who have already put their savings into it and maybe now think, "If it stays that way, I'm just gonna make it. If there's another lockdown, I can't make it. Maybe I should let people go. Maybe I should fire people." I think it is also our job to see how, as a politician in this economic crisis period, we can help companies as best as possible to keep employees in employment, to avoid job losses. As I said earlier, sketching the fictional family, it is particularly important for that family that both jobs remain. We are now in a negative economic situation and then you have to take action. I would like to draw attention to the emergency packages, support packages 1 and 2. I don't think it's enough and there's gotta be another one. It costs money, too. In the balance, I'm gonna let that weigh heavily, see if we can all get through this, with as few people as possible who are totally losing their jobs. That will never work 100%, but hopefully there will be as little job losses as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	Everyone is for as little job losses as possible, but where things go wrong, is that the VVD apparently thinks that you don't have to look at the question: what jobs do we really have nothing on? In fact, what jobs are all about exploitation? They also produce products that make people sick to death. So people end up in hospitals, care becomes more expensive and care workers have to run faster. So we have to get rid of jobs like that. I have a second point. Stop it! It's a liberal principle that you let people choose for themselves. The VVD has kept companies that have a business model for making Dutch people sick, always out of the wind. Now in the corona crisis we startle a little bit, because we see what it means when people with obesity end up in intensive care. And yet the VVD refuses to say: wait a minute, there we have done something wrong and we really have to turn the button; the sick people are just going to pay with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	What Mrs. Ouwehand does from her ideology, I understand. She says as it were: people make meatballs; there are very fat people who are obese and have eaten a lot of meatballs, so the meatball leads to obesity. There are also a lot of athletic, thin people who eat meatballs and there are also meatballs that I can tell you about overweight people who haven't eaten meatballs for a while. So it's not that simple. I wish it was one of those parties. So I think that's too easy a link. That is why I say that there are, of course, products that are less healthy and that you do not have to eat much of and that there are healthy products, and that it is wise to inform and guide people about them. Advertising, especially when aimed at children, has been restricted for products with a high sugar content. Producers are encouraged to add less and less sugar in it, so that we don't actually notice it in terms of taste, but we will get a lot less sugar from the same product in five years' time. Those are all things that my party has been stimulating and taking with it for years. I simply do not agree with Mrs Ouwehand that anyone who cooperates in the production of a meatball is, therefore, a kind of sickener of the Netherlands and a cause of care costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	I know everything has to do with everything...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	...but it's about the appreciation of care workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	Mr President, that is correct. I'd like to give the VVD one thing. If you're trying to call on Dutch people to show solidarity with people who are vulnerable and thus limit themselves in their freedoms and also in their human need for proximity, we're asking something from Dutch people: don't make your fellow man sick, then you should really be ashamed of yourself if you're leaving companies that make money sick from making people sick.I'm calling Coca-Cola, McDonald's and Vion untired. That freedom to make money from making people sick is obviously more important for the VVD than the freedom to cuddle each other, a freedom that is hard to give up. That's just not a story. So you're also undermining your own corona strategy. That's how deep it goes, and that's how it's connected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	If banning cocaine would lead to the end of coronaviruses, so we can hug each other, I'd do it right away. But that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	I hear the VVD say, at least, I hope I understood correctly that she is going to look around Prince's Day to see if there is anything else possible. We have just heard from Mr Wilders what the starting salaries are in healthcare. They're dramatically low, especially for caregivers. In Germany, nurses' starting salaries go up. I can imagine that if you want to attract people, it'll help if you start with a decent salary. Would the VVD be prepared to at least see if the starting salaries could increase, making it more attractive to start the profession? Because if you want to go from one to another or if you have choices, it would help if the initial salary is at least at a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	This is one of the things I mentioned about which I would like to hear from the cabinet, regardless of whether it succeeds at Princess Day or has more directional formation or there are bottlenecks and how you structurally improve it and what it costs, so that we can make choices in it. I think this is an example of an approach that is aimed at where things are cramped, rather than saying: there are problems in the care, the salary is part of it, let's just increase everything. I also liked your proposal to talk about pennies instead of percentage. I never understood it myself when the city's garbagemen stopped for a percentage tax increase, because it was mainly the higher policy officials who had the most benefit. At the time I thought: give everyone a sum, then it also makes sense that they do the stake work. So I get that. Exactly the example Mrs Van Brenk mentioned was also in my questions to the cabinet. See if it's possible to narrow down those bottlenecks. This includes the flow, the starting salary in certain categories, but also the facilitation of irregular work, and that's what I mentioned a few more. I won't repeat them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dijkhoff. Mr Pieter Heerma has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Who over the past week has had a lot of jokes and treats about running, and now finds that several colleagues with sports shoes are in the debate here, and sees it as a bit of a missed opportunity that he himself has not thought about that. Mr. Chairman. Today's debate is about salaries in health care and about whether we as a Chamber are giving the mandate to increase them considerably. The letter from the cabinet, but also the debate with Mr Dijkhoff just showed: salaries in health care are rising and they are also rising structurally. That has to do with Mr Dijkhoff's interpretation of the net without using the words, partly because of the oval covenant that exists, which has contributed billions to the wage room in the care sector over the last few years. Collective agreements have also been concluded which will increase wages by 6.5%, 7.5% and 8% in the coming years. Care also followed the market more in periods when other public sectors were on a zero line. On top of that, the care bonus has been widely requested here, as a result of the corona time. My group will therefore not support the motion for a structural increase in wages. At the same time, corona time has also raised existing bottlenecks. I am looking at Mr Asscher because he started his speech with that. I have to think of the term 'underlying suffering', because in corona, when it comes to the ic, it is often about underlying suffering. I think that if you look at this corona crisis, some of the problems that became apparent in it were already there, but that they were "underlying suffering," in line with what Mr Asscher said. But I also think that it is precisely the things that come from the ESC opinion and from the research of the Region Plan. Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Krol's questions were just about that. They also have to do with administrative burdens, with workload, with labour market perspectives, with atmosphere in the workplace, with autonomy. I have always been a bit jealous of my colleague Paul Smeulders van GroenLinks, who, in my opinion, was the first to coin the term 'control'. It has also landed in a motion by the Christian Union and GroenLinks, asking the cabinet to take steps around that control. We also adopted a motion in June, precisely in the direction of the ESC opinion, and I think that the cabinet in the long letter Mr Wilders called him '22 sides say no' rather little about it. There is a disagreement in the Chamber on this point. On the need for greater autonomy, control and labour market prospects, a motion has been adopted by Chambers, and I see that the Minister writes that she wants to intensify talks with the social partners after the summer. With a slanted eye, I look at Mr. Wilders. Since I do not want to run away from this debate, or run away from it, I would actually like the Cabinet to come forward with a letter before Princess Day about what that discussion with the social partners has resulted in, or what the intermediate position is about that autonomy, that workload, that control, so that we can have that debate here with Princess Day. I think that we should do the same about care as we did last year, starting on Prince's Day, about teachers and the appreciation for teachers. As far as my group is concerned, this debate is about more than just the structural salary debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	I know, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	Speaking time is really two minutes, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u57	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u58	Then I'll give you the floor... no, sorry. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u59	I'm not going to start talking about running away from Mr. Heerma again. The Netherlands knows that by now. But he also says, like his colleague from the VVD, that money is given for salaries and so on. I would like to remind him once again, because I really think that we are wronging those people with that, of course, that HBO-V'er and also that MBO-V'er have all certainly earned a salary increase. Let's be honest: €1,300, €1,400 and if they are lucky €1,500 net. You can work for those people who work full-time in the important work they do, which you don't do. I'm not saying I'm not doing any important work, but you don't understand what I mean: well, they got 3%? The starting salaries for those people in the scales 1, 2 and 3 are really scandalous. Almost from a level you might have in Africa, but not here. I also want to hear from you honestly, regardless of the string of "we're doing something about it" every time, that you say that it's unworthy for those people to clean their buttocks, guide people to the bathroom and comb their hairs, great work, and then bring home €1,300, €1,400, €1,500 net in the month as starting salary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u60	The letter from the cabinet states that, across the board, starting salaries in healthcare are not low compared to other sectors, even if you compare them in Europe. Mr Wilders is working on a specific group, and that is also a labour market issue. All the discussions we have had on the flexibility of the labour market and the discussion we are about to have on the Borstlap Committee are also on this subject. Following on from Mr Dijkhoff, I would also like to say that we will have to look at specific problems together, without me making any commitments or raising expectations that I do not know if they can be met. Because there are many challenges in the decision-making of August in the budget. However, these specific bottlenecks may be starting salaries, but they can also be growth opportunities at the top; these bottlenecks may also need to be looked at. However, that is what I was talking about as well as a structural increase in wages. That's what's in the care, that bonus has come up and the employees themselves are in the SER advice, and that's what's in all those studies that start with autonomy, that start with control, and they start with labour market perspective. The cabinet in the letter is very brief about that. I want to step there more. I mentioned in my term the underlying suffering. I believe that we are obliged to do so, and I ask this for Princess Day, because yesterday we gave Mr Asscher and his party a move forward on what is likely to be part of a counter-budget, that debate can take place on both salaries and on all the other issues that emerge from all these surveys and investigations in the care sector as the real bottlenecks encountered in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u61	Last question, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u62	It's a huge long answer, but it's not the answer to my question. I did not ask for August notes and ESC opinions at all. I didn't ask for any of that. I just asked you a question like someone who, like me, earns $6,000 net. Let's just do it nicely, but be honest. 'Cause you make $6,000 and I make $6,000. My question to you is about those people who work 40 hours and get €1,300, €1,400, €1,500, if they already work full-time, in the lower scales, who clean the buttocks of the people, who guide them to the toilet, who comb their hairs and who I know what important work is. My question is whether you don't just ask me that; you can just say yes or no to that, because you find scandalously little for a starter's salary for that job that you wouldn't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u63	I'll try to do it shorter. I have indicated that starting salaries can be a specific bottleneck, perhaps not in the whole of care, but in specific terms, and that the cabinet will have to look at that as well. That is what Mr Dijkhoff said. However, I have also indicated that when you talk about the underside of the labour market, Mr Klaver spoke yesterday on TV about a broader labour market issue: pressure on salaries, also through flexibilisation. This is a broader discussion, which is also about the organisation of our labour market and which we will have to resolve not only in the care sector but for all kinds of professions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u64	I would like to ask the CDA what we could do with each other. In this kind of discussion it is indeed often said: you do not solve it with more salary. This was also the case during the discussion on the shortage of teachers. You don't get more employees in health care on more salary. But it's just as true that more pay is part of it. So if they are the main reason why they mention the limited development opportunities in their profession, then of course that has to do with the opportunities that there are to make more money to take care of your family. I would therefore like to put the following question to the CDA. It was Mr Heerma who said: we stop talking about "the housing market" and we are going to talk again about "people's housing." The CDA also makes comments about just seeing care as a market. And frankly, that system is once again served to us. Does the CDA agree with us, does Mr Heerma agree with me that we should look again at what public health demands of us now? This means that all these bottlenecks need to be addressed, but that there should also be room for better remuneration where this helps to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mr Asscher also referred to last year's debate on teachers. In that debate I did not meet Mr Asscher in everything he asked, but it was also about further special education. I also indicated that there was a specific bottleneck there. I think there are also specific bottlenecks in care. We've been talking about starting salaries here. Mr Asscher is now also talking about opportunities for growth. So the bottleneck can also be at the top of scales. I'm not going to commit to that right now, but I think it needs to be looked at. That is why I asked the question. And if we're going to see where we can find each other, then we have to be honest and say: we've already found each other on a lot of points before the summer. We are talking about this health bonus, about the motions by the Christian Union and GroenLinks, but also about our joint motion on this SER opinion. And it is also about 'we need to talk more about our own production', something on which I tabled a motion with Mr Marijnissen. So we already find each other a lot. I deliberately asked for this ESC opinion before Prinsjesdag and a motion was passed on it. I therefore believe that we should continue this discussion. I am not saying that we are going to vote in favour of this motion today, which calls for a substantial structural increase in wages. But because of the fact that I want to continue the debate on this, including with Mr Asscher, I would also like to have that letter on the state of play before Princess Day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u66	I'm trying to listen to what my colleague says. If I hear him correctly, he says: I am not going to vote for that motion today, but I realize that this is not the end of it, because there is indeed a serious problem that might be solved by this increase in wages. The second question I would like to ask him is therefore a more political one. Indeed, exactly half of the Chamber has said many times: something must be done about these salaries. I also see why it is going to be counterproductive at some point if it is said too often. On the other hand, we have a coalition without a majority that is going to have to make difficult decisions in a time of great crisis, at a time when we cannot have a division. Is Mr Heerma prepared to look at this with his party in the same way? Many people in this Chamber and in society say: yes, that salary increase is a solution, but part of arming us against a second wave, part of preparing us for what is needed, part of supporting our economy. Is Mr Heerma prepared to look at what is not only the wishes of the Labour Party, but the wishes of the entire opposition, in view of all that remains to be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Asscher's summary of my answer is almost correct, but I want to be very specific. So when I look at bottlenecks, I myself specifically ask for bottlenecks other than the increase in salaries. Because that structural salary increase is already there. In the NRC this morning there was an article in which it was concluded at the end: the debate in the Chamber is not about the point where the health care workers themselves complain most about. I do not rule out making a different assessment than Mr Asscher when we stand here in September, and so I am more concerned with issues such as autonomy, workload and that sort of thing. But that's what we're gonna have the debate about. And it's also about 75-75. I want to have that debate on arguments. In the time when Minister Asscher was standing here, in trade union K, and MP Heerma there, at the interrupting microphone, I sometimes managed to do something on the strength of arguments when it was often not necessary for a majority. So if we're going to do something there, it's because we're getting convinced of each other's arguments in the debate. I'm not gonna do that because the ratio is 75-75.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr Krol has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u69	Mr. Chairman. In France, care workers receive 8 billion, while economic developments there are worse. What is it about this cabinet that now leaves the indispensable care workers in the cold? They have to help us get on top of it when there's a second wave. Or are they gonna run away? There must be money, the workload must be reduced and the bureaucracy must be reduced. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? However, there was money for a contribution to the EU Corona Recovery Fund. Does the Prime Minister represent the interests of France and Italy or the general interest of the Netherlands? Millions are being pumped into the clothing chain of one of the richest families in the Netherlands, a company to which the Prime Minister's ski and boat friend is linked. Stop the uneconomic subsidy for wind and solar energy! We prefer higher salaries in health care. Can the Prime Minister agree to that? In 2009 the Netherlands was in the top three in terms of purchasing power, after ten years of Rutte we are in place fifteen and in terms of load pressure we are number one. We want a direct purchasing power for all workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u71	Madam President. Last Saturday a new Dutch word was announced in the program De Taalstaat. It was about nonsense to each other, and the word that was chosen by the public was "warmness." I couldn't stop thinking about health care workers. If it is true for one profession, it is true for this one, because they do their work from a warm heart. That is why the staff shortage was and is so severe, because it often means that you cannot give that time and attention to people you would like to give. That's why the corona crisis was so intense and during the peak a lot of them were asked. Many of them have still not recovered physically and mentally. Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group believes that it is also necessary, in this context, to show a great deal of appreciation for our healthcare workers, with words and deeds. And yes, that's about more than just money. This is also about recognising their achievements and the bottlenecks they face. It is also about giving confidence and not overflowing with red tape, rules and protocols, which destroys the challenge in the field. And in the end, it's also about working conditions, not only about the division between private and work and the direction of your work, but also about the financial reward. We feel that the reward, the pay house, is not in order right now. Examples have already been found, including bottlenecks at the beginning of pay scales and the opportunities for growth. More needs to be done, and that is why we have supported the motions tabled by both Mr Wilders and Mr Marijnissen. Let the political response to the warmth of the caregivers above all be generous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If the pandemic has taught us anything, it is the re-evaluation of the public sector. On the eve of possibly a second corona wave, we want this cabinet to have an eye on the people in the care and the needs that exist. We want the cabinet to prevent people from throwing in the towel disillusioned. We have repeatedly called for attention to be paid to the nursing homes. These care workers were at the back when protective equipment was distributed. As far as we are concerned, they should now be at the forefront of the financial valuation. The same goes for the home care workers. Mr. Chairman. The current financial economic situation must never be a reason, an argument, to avoid more appreciation in care. Other countries are doing the same, as has just been said. I would like these examples to be answered in the near future. France: €183 net for all nurses. In Germany, which has an equal remuneration policy for nurses, minimum start-up salaries go up to make the profession more attractive. That is important, because we need a lot of people in the long term. Can the Minister indicate whether he would like to consider and explore these possibilities? Finally, Mr President. Of course, care workers earn more pay, but they also deserve more quality work. The pleasure of work is extremely important. Applause is nice, but a higher reward and job fun are better. 50PLUS will therefore wholeheartedly support the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u74	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you, Mr President. What an absurd, embarrassing display, this coalition compulsion and group discipline in full ornate. It couldn't be any uglyer. The runaway coalition stopped the vote. A gross disgrace! First applause, followed by a straight-on bang for the care heroes, whose maximum demands and who, at risk of their own health, run across their physical and mental boundaries, double duty, without complaining, with love for our loved ones. Structurally undervalued, this cabinet gives them nothing but empty words and empty promises about better working conditions. How credible is that? This cabinet has billions left over for state aid and multinationals, but more appreciation for the care heroes, the shoulders on which everyone supports during the corona crisis, is too much to ask. That would be supposedly irresponsible in today's economic climate. On the health bonus, the €1,000 net, they have to wait for months, while fortunately the list is getting shorter and shorter. That's just a tissue for the bleeding. That's not how I meant that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u77	That excuse not to give more structural appreciation to the care heroes makes me very angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u78	Thank you. Mr Kuzu has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u79	Mr. Chairman. Taking responsibility: that is the essence of working for the public cause. Taking a handsome piece of responsibility has shown the whole world during the outbreak of the coronavirus in the care: how risky for one's own life was flickered on intensive care units and nursing homes, how people volunteered to help during the corona peak. Not only in the Netherlands, all over the world the care staff was appreciated for the efforts made. The heroes and heroines of society, they were rightly called. They were clapped for. Proposals were made to improve the structural remuneration of the care staff. Unfortunately, they didn't make it every time. Avoiding responsibility: a number of politicians are very skilled at it. Abraham Lincoln says it most beautifully: you cannot escape tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding it today. A good example of responsibility has escaped the whole of the Netherlands in the past week, when MPs of the coalition fled the Chamber building in order not to have to vote on a proposal to structurally better reward care staff. Because imagine: the proposal could have made it and care workers could finally get what they've been denied for years. Staff shortages in health care could just become redundant, because work in care would become more attractive. This trio could finally present in this barre during some good news. In the meantime, the 1.4 million people who work in care are amazed at these scenes in The Hague. They know that their colleagues in France receive €183 per month. They hear that their colleagues in Germany already have that bonus, which still needs to be set up in the Netherlands, on their accounts. One becomes slightly emotional, the other reacts shoulder-picking. In their hearts, they all know it: they don't have to count on the coalition parties. They go back to work tomorrow and do what they do best: take care of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u80	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u81	Madam President. We are talking today about the position of nurses and nurses. They're people we need very much, now and in the future. It is good that there is a one-off health bonus for them, but we also need to look at what is needed structurally. In the letter, the cabinet states that there are wage increases and that good collective agreements have been concluded. That is good, but it also says that there are differences between education and care, for example. It is logical that these differences lead to discontent. From the conversation we had last night with nurses and caregivers from our own constituency it became clear to me that appreciation is not only about a higher salary, but also about solving other bottlenecks. They mentioned: high workload, small and often temporary contracts, lack of autonomy, lack of career prospects, lack of control for the profession. That calls for good employership. But it also calls for solutions from social partners and professional groups. Two motions have recently been tabled. Colleague Heerma pointed it out. The motion-Van den Berg c.s. calls for an inventory and resolution of the bottlenecks: engage with the social partners, employers and employees. The Minister writes: I'm going to do that and I'll come back to it. I agree with Mr Heerma's request: pull that forward, come forward with a letter for Prince's Day, so that we can have a wide-ranging discussion about it. A motion has also been tabled by my colleague, Mr Dik-Faber, along with Mr Ellemeet. It is about legally anchoring the control of nurses and caregivers at institution level. How do we ensure that nurses are involved at the highest level in decision-making? That's what we hear every time: work on that. So the same question applies: work it out, pull the conversation forward and come before Princess Day with the execution of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u82	One final question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u83	Yes, Mr. Chairman, indeed. Mr Segers has asked to see how it can be improved and to talk to social partners. It has been discussed for many years. There is far too little talk with the people who have good ideas. You said you spoke to your constituents. There is a foundation, Stichting Beroepseer, with pioneers from various sectors. Wouldn't it just be very good for this cabinet to talk to those leaders so that it can embrace their good quality ideas and present them after Princess Day? I hope that Christian Union would urge the cabinet to do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u84	You're asking me over if you're referring specifically to this group. I don't know them personally, but I think it's nice to have a response from the Minister. If, in fact, they are well anchored in their profession and are able to speak on behalf of that group, I think it would be very good if they were fully involved. In that respect, the windows and doors are open and we can have the conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u85	Thank you, Mr Segers. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Chairman. Healthcare professionals, from nursing to intensive, have made a crucial contribution to fighting the corona crisis. Don't forget the support staff that makes their work possible. They deserve our appreciation, and it consists of more than just warm words. That is why D66 voted in favour of the €1,000 bonus. The window opens on 1 October. I ask the Minister: when has this bonus actually been paid to the healthcare professionals? The structural attractiveness of care work requires more than a one-off bonus: fewer forms, bureaucracy and management, and more self-direction, trust and time for patients. The corona crisis has shown us that again. What lessons do ministers draw from this? What can they do with a focus and when do they expect more clarity? I agree with Mr Heerma's request for a letter for Princess Day. In addition to fewer rules and more trust, the reward of healthcare professionals should be considered to make work more attractive. The Cabinet letter shows that these salaries are going up this year and next year. As far as I am concerned, this is not the end of the matter, and we are looking at the re-evaluation of the public sector in the near future, because I am also thinking of all those people who have been working so hard in education lately. Mr. Chairman. The priority for the coming months is that as many people as possible can keep their jobs, because the corona crisis is causing unemployment in some sectors and people to lose their income at all. D66 believes that we should also continue to look at strengthening that appreciation and reward in healthcare. But I also say immediately: that is not easy. That's not going to happen overnight, and it's not going to happen for free. It will have to be careful, as Ernst Kuipers said last week, with the honest message that we have to make choices elsewhere. I hope that in the coming months we will be able to look constructively and carefully at how we can do that. I have already heard some very nice suggestions in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u87	I hear the Jetten saying that it is important in times of crisis to preserve as many jobs as possible. Everybody's gonna agree with that. How does Mr Jetten look at the idea of reducing the tax on profits for large companies with whom things are going well? We've talked about that before in the Chamber. Does Mr Jetten think it is appropriate, in times of crisis, to look at each other, in which we have all, on a massive scale, including Mr Jetten, applauded for the concern, absolutely not to go through with that idea? Isn't it a much more sensible idea to abandon the plan for a further reduction in the tax on profits, so that we free up money to invest in the salaries of our people who work in healthcare?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u88	We will have to look in the near future at the support of the business community that keeps you as many businesses as possible and thus retains as many jobs as possible, including people's incomes. The formation resulted in a reduction in corporate tax as part of a package to support business in the Netherlands. We will have to see if that is still the smartest way to do that in the coming months, but I also want to take away the illusion that you can put everything in business over the next few months. There are sectors that are often also small businesses, family businesses, which quite rightly indicate that they have been able to get through the first months of the corona crisis, are now really on their last reserves and that if they get into serious trouble again in the near future, for example in the case of a second lockdown, they will not be able to handle it alone. So, in the coming period, in addition to re-evaluation of the public sector, we will also have to look carefully at how you continue to support business in a targeted way for the preservation of jobs and incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u89	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u90	Everybody understands, of course, that you want to keep those jobs. We have also supported these measures. We have also supported that money goes to those companies to keep those jobs up. That's very important. But what we are talking about here are specifically the large companies that have made a lot of profit in recent years, where we have all seen that these profits have mainly gone to the shareholders and not to the workplace. I would ask Mr Jetten to think again about the following. Isn't it really very harsh that we should say now, well, 'we', the cabinet that the cabinet is now saying to the caregivers: sorry, there is a crisis coming, for your structural wage increase there is no money now. But the cabinet does intend to give even more tax cuts to the big companies. That's what we're talking about. Will Mr Jetten comment specifically on this? That's a contradiction, isn't it? Isn't that a story about those people in the care we've all been applauding so loudly and we're all gonna need later?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u91	That is why we should not make that contradiction. Mrs Marijnissen says that the cabinet says to workers in the care sector: there is no room for a salary increase for you. There is. A collective agreement has been agreed whereby wages in health care will increase this year and next year. More than rightly so, because for years the public sector has benefited far too little from the economic growth we have seen. To be honest, however, I have also been a little surprised at the collective agreement that has been agreed, because it has been improved in the same way by almost everyone in the care sector. I would like to mention Mrs Van Brenk's suggestion that we should look more at money rather than percentage, and that we should really focus on starting salaries or the lowest income scales, for example. I find that very interesting to continue the discussion with employers and trade unions in the care sector in the near future, so that if we can do even more in the coming years with regard to remuneration in the public sector, we will do so more specifically than we agreed in the current collective agreements. In addition, there is the question of how to support business in a sensible way in the Netherlands. In the coming period we will have to look closely at this with a third corona support package. This Chamber has already voted on a motion. In my opinion, we were both under there asking the cabinet how it is going to ensure that if soon the economy attracts after the corona crisis, large companies that then make a lot of profit, will also start to pay back honestly at that time for the support they have now received more than rightly in these difficult months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u92	I see that Mr Asscher has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u93	Let's talk about what we can do. D66 responds in the departments to people complaining about this: we are also in favour of more salary, but the opposition has no way to cover it, to pay it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u94	I did not say that in this debate, but now that Mr Asscher points out: yes, that is correct, these are uncovered motions that you have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u95	I think we can skip that part, because we know that example of the tax on profits. That was at a time when D66 and the coalition still thought that we should abolish the dividend tax and that those were our priorities. We are now in a totally different time, in an economic crisis and a pandemic. To mention another cover, you have reduced the top rate for the highest income. Absolutely not necessary at this time. So the money's here. It's about how we can use it wisely. I'm very sensitive to the argument that it has to be smart. That's what the medical specialists themselves say, people who already have a wonderful income. So the question is: should we not now instruct the cabinet to tackle all these bottlenecks, including that the salary should be higher, precisely in order to keep and attract more people to care? To be honest, that is also how I experienced those earlier motions that I tabled with Mrs Marijnissen. We and I think Mr Wilders were concerned not with the heart surgeon, who is also doing a fantastic job, but with where there are shortages and where there are too few people. We now have the task of giving this cabinet a political mandate. My question is whether you are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u96	I also think that there is not so much light between us, because we all want to improve the appreciation in healthcare. I have some figures here in a footnote, but those are also figures that scare me. 60% of employees say they do not have enough time to take good care of their clients and patients. 70% say they don't have enough time for personal attention and 50% say they can't decide for themselves how to do their job. These are very clear signals from the healthcare sector of people who are thereby prevented from enjoying their work and the energy to sustain it for a long time. We have tried all kinds of things over the past few years to do something about this, but we have not yet managed to improve the job satisfaction in healthcare in this way. I have actually heard everyone here today say: Cabinet, go again with that sector to see how it can be done faster, better and smarter. Then we also have the discussion as to whether you can further improve that appreciation in healthcare by strengthening the salary position. In this debate, I would like to say quite frankly to Mr Asscher: I am not going to be able to arrange this with you in this debate. We must look at our country and our economy in the near future. Indeed, the situation is completely different now than when we wrote the coalition agreement three and a half years ago. So we need to look carefully at what is now wise for business and for the public sector. I hope that we can look at this constructively over the next few weeks, months towards Prinsjesdag and the budgetary discussions with each other, but we cannot solve this with each other all the way to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u97	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u98	I started on purpose with the question of what we can achieve. It is clear to me that the coalition has agreed to vote against these motions. I don't think it's necessary at all. I think that this is a negative outcome which does not help at all, but I would like to ask about the statements made by Mr Jetten. He says: we don't disagree that much. If that is the case, it must also mean that this cabinet will be given the task of doing more for the public sector and, in particular, for care. And that costs money. We will have to make the political choice not to shoot into an old recipe now, in an old liberal recipe of "we are going to cut back, it will have to come from the big companies." No, we will now need the government very much to support companies that do the right thing, but also the public sector. The question I would like to put to Mr Jetten is as follows. I disagree, but I hear he's going to vote against the motions. In the end, it is not about whose motion it is or at what point it is happening, but it is about doing the right thing now. The question is: is he of the opinion that at this moment, when we are living in this crisis, it is necessary, it is important to increase salaries, perhaps not of everyone, but of course of a structural nature?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u99	In my view, I have already indicated in an earlier debate that in this corona crisis we should at least not make the mistake of the previous economic crisis by putting public finances in order in the coming years with substantial cuts and burdens on citizens. We can't make that mistake again. As far as I'm concerned, we're not going to do that in the future either. I think that is widely supported in this Chamber. Then you'll have to see where you can make extra investments, where you can drive investments, where you can keep jobs and maybe even improve salary positions. However, it is really too early in this debate to make statements when it comes to the question of what functions and for which sectors you can go so far as to even improve salaries, because that is part of the budgetary treatment that we will have to do with each other in the coming period. Mr. Chairman. In any case, I welcome the constructive tone I have heard in this debate. I am also pleased with a number of very concrete suggestions, such as 'look at the cents instead of the percentage', because in any case we can give more targeted support to those who need it most.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u100	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u101	Politics is about making choices, about prioritizing. VVD, CDA, D66 and ChristianUnion say there is no money for better salaries for care workers. But the money is there. The coalition parties choose to spend it on other things. For example, at the end of July, Mark Rutte agreed with the EU Redistribution Fund, which costs the Netherlands 780 million euros each year until 2058. With the money from that fund, Dutch money is also available, so France is now increasing its salaries in health care. When singer Rihanna sent a charm to Sigrid Kaag, she liked to draw the wallet to have more than 100 million Dutch taxpayers' money flow to schools in Africa. And in 2018 alone, the same Sigrid Kaag gave 578 million in international climate finance. VVD, D66, CDA and Christian Union spend millions, billions each year on international climate policy, on European integration, on immigration, on development aid. They sign the Marrakesh immigration pact, they submit the completely pointless but 1,000 billion-dollar climate law. All billions! But for care, they don't have that kind of money left. For the heroes in the care that, as we have seen, also suffer from shortages. People in care for the elderly, people in health care, in intensive care; there are shortages everywhere. But they refuse to spend it on it. They make the wrong choice and on 17 March the Netherlands has the choice to vote them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u102	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u103	Mr. Chairman. The people in care must be rewarded for the good work they do. That is why I voted in favour of the motion by Comrade Wilders. I shall do that again in the roll-call vote. But there are, of course, other crucial professions that deserve more appreciation and more salary. Why, for example, do the military earn so little when they defend our country and are willing to give their lives for us? Why can't the police get some more money? And how is it possible that we give our children the best education but then put teachers and teachers completely underpaid for the classroom? Mr. Chairman. It's all a matter of choices. It is a choice to transfer billions of euros of Dutch taxpayers' money to Europe. It is a choice to burn billions in biomass plants or waste on climate subsidies. It is a choice to spend billions of euros on a massive influx of migrants. And it's also a choice to run away from a vote. It is therefore good for the Prime Minister to explain to the electorate why there is money for Europe, climate and mass immigration, but not for our heroes in the care, our army, the police and our teachers and teachers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u104	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. There is a need for a half-hour suspension. I shall suspend the sitting until 3:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u105	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I propose that the same number of interruptions be maintained in the government's term as well. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u106	Mr President, thank you. I shall try to answer the questions put to me as well as I can, in fact, have not been asked in such a way as to reflect on the observations made in the Court's term. That's partly natural repetition. The Chamber received the comprehensive letter from Minister Van Ark for Medical Care about how we look at the situation with wages in care. So I'm not going to explain the whole system again; you've been able to see it all. But it is true, in essence, that, if anyone here thinks that wages should increase in health care, we also think so, and that this is also socially well organised through the system that is now in place, in which wages in care increase with the average contract wage development in business. This is often a higher increase in many cases than in the case of police or education, at least more standardized. Mrs Marijnissen mentioned Bernhoven in Uden. I've been there myself. I think that, for all of us, coalition, opposition and cabinet, if we are to have this debate, which is, of course, broader than just those who have worked terribly hard to combat corona by corona the images from these hospitals, in my case also this hospital because I was visiting them, and the conversations there are of course very sharp in our minds. The appreciation for what has happened there and the awareness that people are still, in part, still following up on this enormous effort made in the period from the second half of March to the beginning of June, and unfortunately, more needs to be done at the moment, although fortunately the figures are still lower than they were at the time, is really the context in which we are holding this debate. I believe that we all feel this way and the appreciation is enormous for the 1.3 million people in health care and the many hundreds of thousands who were directly or indirectly involved and are still involved in the fight against the virus. I don't think we need to convince each other about that. The question now is: what is reasonable, what is real, what is proportional, what is neat, decent in this country to do about care salaries? Again, at the heart of the matter, my response would be to keep it very brief, but there are more comments to make and more reflections to give. Indeed, as the various spokesmen have said, care salaries are rising, which fortunately have risen quite sharply over the last few years and that there is also room for further wage increases, in line with contract wage developments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u107	Maybe it's good to know how your speech was built?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u108	Yes. I actually have two main points. That is the general point about salaries. I can make a full statement on this, but I suspect that I can do better on the basis of the interruptions, and then I would like to say something about what Mr Heerma, as well as others, have said about the request to have the discussion with the social partners as soon as possible. So that is a second element that I would like to address. And then I have a few loose questions to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u109	Good. A total of four questions can be asked. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u110	Well, four interruptions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u111	No, four questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u112	Unfortunately, it is not true, as the Prime Minister said, that everyone thinks that the people in the care should receive a substantial salary. The opposite is the case. There were over 30 members of the coalition who last week, when the motion threatened to come to the vote to substantially increase the salaries for the care workers, like a hare, with their tail between their legs, ran to the parking garage. Before I come to a substantive question, I would like to ask Mr Rutte what he thought about that. After all, he is the Prime Minister of the Netherlands, but also the leader of the coalition government. What did he think of the fact that members of the coalition were there about 35 people last Wednesday evening, when there was a vote, a roll-call vote, on a motion from me on raising salaries, not to reach a quorum like a hare running out of the House of Representatives building? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u113	Nice work by Mr Wilders, because he put that image of running away well. That was, of course, a terrible picture. But I believe that there have also been mutual agreements here when you vote jointly or not. I'm not about that; I'm not a Member of Parliament. I think it would be a good idea, as a coalition and opposition, to talk about these agreements behind the scenes. Again, I'm not going over it, but you're challenging me now. I was not going to say anything about it, but I have the impression that there is more to say about it than Mr Wilders' handsome framing that night.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u114	So this is what I was afraid of. Not the beginning, with the leader of the coalition, because that is Mr Rutte's admitting that it was all wrong. No, he brings it now as a frame of Mr. Wilders. Is that the message you have for the care workers who came to The Hague this morning in relay? Is that the message you have for the people who were offended that coalition parties ran away from the House of Representatives during that motion? Is that Mr Wilders' frame, or is that the coalition that does not take its responsibility and runs away at the time when a motion is put to the vote that says "materially more salary"? That is not a frame; that is the arrogance of the parties here in the Chamber who support your cabinet. Well, you don't have to take responsibility for that, but you're blaming me for that is really not a pen to describe. Now for the content. How can it be "b" and how do you explain it to the people who work in healthcare? That you have helped billions, but also billions, of donations to countries, from Germany to Italy and from Spain to Greece and France, and that the French, because they receive these gifts from Europe, are going to increase salaries for their care workers hugely, historically, by €2,000 net per year? Maybe that doesn't happen with that money, but they don't have to spend any other money for that. How can you give money to that, as a sort of Prime Minister of France, but not to your own staff here? How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u115	More such comments were made in the Court's first term, not just on what is happening at European level. It has also been asked whether you cannot decide not to allow the reduction in corporate tax to continue, in favour of the additional increase in healthcare salaries. Again, they are already rising, often more than other sectors. But there's been a request for an additional increase on top of that. That is the question that lies ahead from the opposition. All kinds of other suggestions have also been made about government expenditure and revenue or about reductions in taxes, for example, about higher rates, which are falling, of income tax. It has been suggested that you can use all these measures to finance this. The point is, I say to Mr Wilders and others who have made those suggestions, that it is always en-en-en-en. A cabinet has to do everything at once. We need to ensure that the burden burden on citizens and businesses in the Netherlands is such that it can be dealt with together. This has to do with the burden on income tax, but also with the burden on companies, which is still many billions above the pre-crisis level. Whereas, fortunately, on average, the Dutch now have a very heavy burden relief compared to before the 2010-2011 crisis, companies are still billions in plus. Secondly, in Europe too, and with each other, we must ensure that in this enormous crisis things do not become squirmy, but rather in exchange for far-reaching reforms in the countries concerned. We've agreed on that, too. So it's always If you highlight one thing and say: yes, but that is from my political point of view... Mr Wilders is talking about Europe, another is talking about lowering corporate tax or another third is saying: why should people with a slightly higher income be relieved? If you take it out in isolation and ask for it to be used to finance the raising of salaries in health care, then I say in response that a cabinet like this, consisting of the broad political centre and trying to connect high- and low-educated, city and countryside, all groups in society, must do all this. We must always ensure that in a country like the Netherlands the things that are needed to keep a strong business that generates jobs are done. We must ensure that there are reasonable incomes for people, including through taxes, but we must also ensure that the Netherlands is able to protect Europe's interests in terms of our export position and our security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u116	This Prime Minister is not at all here to talk to the people of Italy, Spain and Greece, among other things. You are Prime Minister of the Netherlands. What the hell? It's not just suggestions. It's 390 billion in donations. The Netherlands stands at 6%. That is about EUR 23 billion or EUR 24 billion in gifts alone. Then we are not even talking about the loans we guarantee. It's just Dutch money that we're going to have to pay right away. EUR 24 billion, just when it comes to the donations. Do you know what you can do for that? You gave it away to the Italians, to the French, to the Germans, to the Greeks, to the Portuguese. But you are Prime Minister of the Netherlands. I was just talking to some of my colleagues about what we deserve, but you deserve, apart from your surcharges, €170,000 a year as Prime Minister. The people who sit in the first three bowls, the caregivers and the helpers, do not yet earn €20,000 a year. You make eight to nine times as much. And you dare to say here that you are giving money to the Greeks, to the Italians, to the French. You leave people in the cold with the excuse that, given all the suggestions made by all parties, you have to think about everything. You don't think of anyone. You're thinking of the foreigners. You think of the Italians and the French. You don't think of the Dutch. We need, for God's sake, a prime minister who thinks of the Dutch!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u117	Mr Wilders is bringing in a lot. Let me try to break it up for a while. It's true that my salary is very substantial. That's just true. I make a very good salary. I come to people on the street who say "puffer." What I always do is take them apart and explain what I deserved for this, what I deserve now and what I could have earned if I had stayed there. Then they say, "Well, then you're not a pocket-filler, but the rest are." Then I say, "No, he deserves less than I do." But it is true that in politics we simply earn good salaries. It is absolutely true that we deserve much more than someone who operates as domestic aid. Mr Wilders is quite right about that; he is. In addition, as a cabinet, we must ensure that, for example, when it comes to our position in Europe, for the Netherlands, that is crucial, also for our security, we are embedded in a strong European Union, because there is an unstable world. At the same time, we know that we depend on our export position. It's two million of our jobs. 70% of these exports are within the European Union. This crisis is affecting countries very disproportionate, it is very important that you ask two things from those countries. If we are willing to help, the question is to spend it wisely. It is particularly important that you ask those countries to do everything in their power to help themselves next time. That was the deal we made in June. Mr Wilders is using this source to increase healthcare salaries, on top of the increases that are being made. Others have made other suggestions. My position is that a cabinet must weigh up all these interests and ensure that sensible policies are pursued in a proper balance. I really think that this is a task of a coalition consisting of that broad political centre, in the tradition of popular parties forming the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u118	First Mr. Klaver. Then Mrs Marijnissen and then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mr Rutte actually says that everyone has their own political colour and that from there you have political wishes, whether you want to reduce the burden on business or spend money on the public sector. That's true, but this spring there was something very nice about it. That was the beautiful thing Corona did to us. In a way, political colours seemed to fade for a while and we all saw how important all those people in the front line are. We are talking about care now, but I could also say the same about the people who work in the distribution centres, but we are not talking about their salaries. We'll take care of the salaries. We saw people doing fantastic work there...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u120	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u121	... and that's actually very low-scaled. When you see that people who take care of people in those nursing homes, who have been in a terrible situation, often do not deserve more than the minimum wage... That is why we have said with each other, left and right, the very broad middle, the whole spectrum: we have to do more for that. Now comes the dilemma, because it's not easy. Let's not say it's easy. The cabinet has promised to reduce the burden on large companies by EUR 2 billion, but it has also been promised that we will finally do something to strengthen the position of the people working in the care sector. Honesty requires saying that we cannot do both in this economic situation. The question is, what do you choose? I am clear: I choose the people in care. This means that the burden relief for large businesses cannot continue. Not because I like it, but that's how we pay it. The question is to this Prime Minister: who do you choose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u122	In any case, I fully agree with Mr Klaver that I, too, choose the people in the care sector and consider it important that there should also be substantial additional increases in salaries in the future, if these would also occur in the market sector. You can see that this has been achieved in recent years, which has also led very recently to substantial wage increases in the collective agreements that have been concluded. You can see that that wage space was there and that there is a system that offers a lot of stability. Unlike in education, the police and in other public sectors where there is a lot more to fight, it is much more obvious that it is happening here. This also means that, for example, hospital nurses in the Netherlands are rewarded 18% higher than the average remuneration received by employees in the Netherlands. It has been referred to France and Germany, where salaries in health care have gone up. OECD has calculated that the average salary in France in 2016, i.e. relatively recently, was 7% lower than the average remuneration received by employees there. So in the Netherlands 18% higher, in France 7% lower. It is comparable in Germany, where a catch-up was needed, because also there the average income of nurses was relatively lower than in the Netherlands. So there are now catch-ups in France and Germany, which were referred to in the first period. But Mr Klaver's main point was whether I agree that it is a good thing that salaries have risen in health care and that they will continue to rise in the future. I fully agree with that. What is at issue here and what Mr Klaver is asking for is an additional increase in wages on top of the wage increases that have been made, which have been planned again and which have been made available for, in order to ensure that these wages continue to develop in line with contract wage developments in business, or even slightly better. Then there is a point, I say to Mr Klaver, that we have to face as politicians. He was confronted with this yesterday in his performance at Op1. He came there, I didn't think, very well, because there he was also asked whether after that the salaries in the police, in education and wider with the government would have to be raised. And then he said, "Yeah, that's got to be all of it." But you can't! I just can't. Not because I don't want to; I would love to. There too, we will try to increase wages in the coming years, so that it all continues to develop reasonably, but we cannot and cannot do so. We cannot raise salaries everywhere and then fight this economic crisis with each other in a decent manner. The core is: is it fair to the people in nursing, in care, in the care sector? I think we now have a system there, with a sharp rise in wages now, and again projected increases in salaries over the next few years, that I think is a fair system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Rutte is talking about systems, but it's about people, you know. This morning I walked with nurses. Because the coalition ran away, they walked to The Hague. Then I spoke to a woman from the east of the country. She came out of the night shift and she's on the night shift tonight. She's been a nurse for 35 years. Actually, she can't work properly anymore. She suffers from everything, her whole body, and yet she does. She now earns €18. And then the Prime Minister here says, "I can't do it." €18 an hour! [[Sentence could not be parsed: "We kúnnen deze mensen niet meer geven!"]] And between the nose and the lips that is also said about education and about the police. "Can't" doesn't exist. It's possible. It's not easy, but it's about what choices we make in this. Less than a few months ago, we were here in this Chamber and we spent EUR 50 billion. That has been debated for three hours in this Chamber, 50 billion. Because we saw the importance of supporting our economy. That we did that, I supported it and I support it. But that it would not be possible, as it is said here, is absolutely nonsense. And frankly, I don't know this Prime Minister like that either. This is the man who's managed to accomplish the impossible for ten years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u124	Oh. Well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u125	Again. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u126	I just talked to these people here at the Square. They're not laughing. They stand with tears with their eyes. And what they're hearing right now, they're sitting there watching, is, "It can't be. Yeah, we promised you, but it's not gonna work." Mr. Chairman. Here must be a prime minister who fights as hard for the people in care as he did for Unilever when he wanted to abolish the dividend tax and who says: "Nothing is impossible. We're gonna raise those wages, starting with care. And you can. It takes difficult choices, but I'm going to do it." And now he's saying, "I'm not doing that." That is a very clear signal to the Netherlands and I hope everyone heard it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u127	Well... I do not know where Mr Klaver heard that, because I have just said that we will continue to increase salaries. So we're in agreement. We'll keep doing that. If you look at the list, which was also sent with Tamara van Ark's letter, and what are the reasons why people in care really don't feel at home there anymore, you will see things that have just been mentioned from the Chamber: the challenge in the work, the way of working and managing, the working atmosphere and the content of the work. In place seven... that's my experience when I talk to people out of care. It's always about bureaucracy, filling out lists, the red tape. That's what it's about: am I sufficiently appreciated as a professional? That's where the great care of people in the care is. Place seven is where salaries and working conditions come in, not place one. I come to speak in more detail in my second part of the answer, the other part that I am about to answer. Place seven is where salaries and working conditions come in. I agree with Klaver, Mr. Chairman. We're gonna do it. There will also be scope in the coming years to ensure that salaries in care can continue to rise, in line with wages in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u128	What I find really incomprehensible is that if this debate were to be about bankers or about business and we were to say 'no summits or bonuses' or 'the salaries are too high', this Prime Minister says: 'Yes, but we must attract the very best people. That's why the 2 tons they make isn't enough. A bonus has to be able to come up with that." And here in the care he says: it's not really about the money. I asked a very simple question: "Do we normally find that in the Netherlands people have to do such valuable work for €1,400 in the nursing homes? Do we think that is normal or do we say: no, we think that is so important that we are going to increase that salary?" That's the question ahead, nothing more and nothing less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yeah, that's what we're doing. Yeah, that's what we're doing. So we agree on that. Only my point was that when you talk about the reasons why people in healthcare eventually say that they're thinking about doing something else, or when you ask what reasons people put into care, there are very different things coming out. I am not saying that salaries are not important, because they are very important. That is why we are talking about it, and that is why I also outline the importance of continuing with the system that we have, namely that salaries can continue to rise in care with what is happening elsewhere and, if possible, slightly above it. That is what we have just been able to do in recent years, and we will also be able to release that money in the coming years. That is very important. But besides that, there are really other things that we have to deal with. It's not just this point. If you want additional wage increases on top of that, I would like to see that, too; I totally agree with that, then there will be an issue, namely how to make sure that you finance it, even in relation to all the other things that have to be done. Finally, Mr President. Mr Klaver said last night at Op1: yes, but there is still the 50 billion. Just because we have managed in recent years not to eat every apple for thirst right away, but also a little bit of a buffer, in this crisis we can now cope with that blow, we have a public debt that makes it possible to maintain as many jobs in the public sector and in the private sector as possible and to see if these sectors can adapt to the economic contraction. That is precisely because we have not eaten all those windfalls that were there, as some here in the Chamber have suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u130	I have to think about that possible second wave that is at the door and all those caregivers that we need so much, of whom we asked for the utmost in the first wave. We have debated very often here the lack of protective means, caregivers who had to cross their borders. We've all applauded them. And when that second wave comes, we're gonna need them all so badly. I'm thinking about that. What are these people supposed to think? What are they supposed to think when they see a Prime Minister who has clapped with the whole cabinet very hard, but who now says: well, it's not really that bad, because those salaries have always been rising in the care sector? Yeah, those salaries are rising, too, but we're also dealing with inflation. Do you mind if we say the same here? So people are barely making any progress in that sense. Fortunately, wages are rising, of course, but prices are also rising. Yes, says the Prime Minister, there are other reasons why people leave care. Yes, quite weeds: if you have too few colleagues, the workload is too high, so more colleagues need to join, and then a good salary also helps. So my question to the Prime Minister is: what exactly is he going to ask of those caregivers when that second wave comes? Is he going to ask such great efforts of those people and then applaud him just as loudly? And does he expect all these people to return to double shifts just as hard, give up all free weekends, and work with danger for their own lives and health? That's what he's expecting?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u131	I notice that the respect here in the Chamber for the people who work in care is wide, with all parties, very great. In addition, I do not think we need to measure each other and I do not think there are any differences there either. Care is a crucial sector for the well-being of our country, for the future of our country. And I think the sector also makes a difference. In a prosperous country like the Netherlands you can fall back on the State, on the government as a shield for the weak. Here, you're literally not gonna be alone when you get into trouble because of your health. The 1.3 million people who appear in the field every day are crucial. That is why it is important that these salaries continue to rise, even in line with what is happening in the market sectors. That is why it is quite right that we have agreed to give a bonus to about 800,000 people in healthcare who are directly or indirectly involved in the fight against corona. This translates into an average occasional wage increase of around 3.7% net by 2020. It is, of course, occasional, but on top of what we expect to happen in structural terms. And it is right to do so! That's absolutely right. But here we are now being asked to give extra wage increases on top of that, on top of the wage increases that are being made. I say: I would love to give it to you too. I would really like to do that; we don't need to have a discussion about that at all. But I also think it is my job to warn that this is a very large amount of money, and that there are other issues that we need to resolve in our country. We have read in the letter that 1% increase in wages is almost 600 million, to be financed, among other things, by an increase in the care premium by a tenner, but it also needs to be financed in other ways. None of that's free.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u132	I think I asked the Prime Minister what he's going to say to those caregivers when that second wave comes and if we're all going to expect the impossible from them again? Then the Prime Minister comes up with a whole story and says that there is much more going on in the country. Like those caregivers don't know that. We all know that very well. Then it's about paying. The Prime Minister just said: yes, I would really like to, but yes, it can't. Then, when we make a proposal on how we could pay for it, the Prime Minister says: no, that is too easy, because the opposition will light up one thing to pay for it, but it doesn't work that way, because we have to look at everything. Yeah, what is it? We are making it very concrete: this is what we want and this is how we can pay for it. We are proposing to increase wages in health care and not to give any more tax advantages to large companies. What's unclear about that? Why can't the Prime Minister just make that choice? Then why does he have to say: you light one thing out? That's what he wants, isn't it? In doing so, we are very clear on what the choices are. Does the Prime Minister recognise that this choice can be made? So it's not about: it can't, because there's no money. No, it's about: I don't want to make that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u133	Any choice can be made, but I think we need to make the analysis first. If I do that analysis, I'll say I'm glad that wages in health care have increased in recent years. They have actually been increasing since 1999, so since these agreements were made on how these wages are linked to contract wage developments in the market sectors. Those wages in care are rising with those wages in the market sectors. Over the past few years, very substantial wage increases have taken place in collective agreements, and further wage increases are to be foreseen in the coming period. So that's what happens. It is said that these wages must continue to rise. I think we all agree with that. First of all, I say to the people in the care sector: I have enormous respect for what has been achieved in recent months. I'm saying, I get that you're still after what happened back then. That is one of the reasons why we ask the Netherlands to prevent Corona from spreading. Corona is starting to spread again, and is beginning to affect not only young people, but also older age groups. It seems that young people are lighting up more people, sometimes directly, in family or at home parties. There is, of course, a risk that the numbers of hospitalisations and subsequent intensive care recordings will increase further. That's one of the reasons we say, guys, don't do that. Apart from your own health and the risk of lighting others, it also has to do with the strength of the care that we can deal with each other in this country. I fully agree with that. That bonus's not for nothing either. Mr. Chairman. However, very precisely: Mrs Marijnissen calls for an additional increase in wages on top of the bonus and on top of the normal increase in wages that is taking place. For this there are different grounds for coverage. Mr Wilders says 'not to Europe', others say 'take it out of income tax' and Mrs Marijnissen says 'take it out of business'. I'm just gonna get that last thought. These companies are currently paying billions more taxes than before, which, fortunately, means that citizens now have a cost reduction on balance compared to before the major crisis at the beginning of this decade, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011. As has been said, the specific way in which Mrs Marijnissen wants to solve this is not only at the expense of large companies, but also of many medium-sized companies. And their competitiveness is needed, especially in a crisis, because that's where the jobs are. If we want to get out of this also economic crisis as a result of corona, we need these companies, because that is where people work and jobs are very important. It's all not free. You have to weigh that up. I respect the choice made by Mrs Marijnissen in it, but I find it unwise to make that exchange. It's also a little "big business versus healthcare pay." It is not big business, because they have often regulated it in a different way with their taxes. It is often the medium-sized companies that are affected, while they are so important for keeping jobs in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u134	I think the cabinet's gonna get caught up again. If you hear this story now, that the big business is also very important, I can very well imagine that all those caregivers have experienced that applause as extremely hypocritical. The facts. The Prime Minister keeps repeating "wages in care are already rising and you want something extra." Yes, I hope that wages in health care have increased since 1999. It would look weird if it wasn't. But we are also dealing with price increases and how people are making net progress, which is all very easy. We are now asking, in addition to that applause, for a structural appreciation and we are telling you very clearly how you could pay for it. In the newspaper, we read in full how the coalition is messing about this tax on profits. We've talked about it a lot here. I think we can see that we're about to get a message that it's going to go off the table. I would ask the Prime Minister to do the same. Last year he abandoned the reduction in the same tax on profits. What was the reason? Wages didn't go up enough. That was the cabinet's point of view. The income tax would go further down, but the cabinet was cutting it off. Then how can you make it, I ask the Prime Minister, to give that certainty to the big companies now and to say 'your tax advantage must continue' and to say to the people in the care 'wait and see what might be possible' and not give them any certainty at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u135	One of the reasons why recent wage increases are so high in the elderly sector is an increase of 3.5% on 1 June, a rise of 5% in the hospitals in January and an increase of 5% on 1 January in the ambulance care sector is, of course, that these sectors are happy to follow contract wage developments in the business sector and in the market sectors there are also significantly higher collective agreements than before. I'm glad. We are not formally talking about it, because it is a matter of employers and employees, but my view, which was more party politics at that time at a congress of my party last June, was that where the economy was so much better at that time, its consequences should also be passed on more in higher wage increases. That has also gone much better over a broad front. This is one of the reasons why, given the fact that wages in care follow market wages, higher wage increases are now taking place there. Once again, today's debate is not about rising wages in healthcare. They're rising considerably right now. I would very much like it to go further, but it is not the case that they are lagging behind wages in the market. On the contrary, on balance, you can see that they are following the trend and often even getting a little above it. This is thanks to the agreements made in 1999 on healthcare salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u136	Yes, the appreciation of care. I would like to go back to the beginning for a moment when the Prime Minister told Mr Wilders that the 'road coalition' was a very nice frame. That wasn't a frame at all. The MPs literally ran out of the Chamber. I also heard the Prime Minister say that behind the scenes agreements are being made on voting. Indeed, there have been agreements on voting. All the spokesmen were there; the chairman was there. Halfway through the debate, during a suspension, we discussed with the spokesmen after a question from Mr Wilders whether there could still be a roll-call vote after the votes if the votes were to cease. The answer was yes, we can vote by roll call in three groups. So the fact that no agreements have been made and that we do not comply with our agreements is nonsense. I think it's a real blow to the face of all those care heroes. I think it is a disgrace to democracy that this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u137	I'm not a Member of Parliament, but that's not exactly what happened is the impression I got from the reconstruction. But I'll leave that to the Chamber. My advice would be, with all due respect that I have for the Chamber of Representatives, I am not going to go over it, but you are now challenging me to discuss again whatever the agreements are on roll-call votes. I was the chairman of the group myself. If it were to be said in a suspension that there would be a roll-call vote, while some of your group might not take it into account at that time and is not here but is still abroad, for example, I think that would be really complicated. But the statue wasn't pretty. I couldn't agree more. The image was even very bad. It is good that we are having this debate now, but I think there is more to say than Mrs Van Kooten is now suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u138	Yes, there's certainly much more to say except that it's a gross disgrace. Even coalition MPs tweeted about those appointments. They were there. To sweep that away now by saying that there were some MPs abroad... we're in a deep crisis, in a corona crisis. We're gonna be in a second wave. We need to move on now and make decisions. The Chamber has returned from recess. Each Member shall have the right to request a roll-call vote, especially if arrangements were made during the suspension, hours before that roll-call vote would actually take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u139	Anyway, I think that vote will take place today. And there hasn't been an accident, has there? It is not the case that that week of delay leads to damage at the point where the motion asks for a ruling on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u140	That damage did happen. If the vote had been taken that evening, the motion would have been adopted. The coalition parties didn't have enough MPs in the house to have enough members against the motion. So the damage is done. Now all coalition members are in the house, there can be a vote on the motion and the result will be against. That's the damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u141	I have been in charge of my political party for four years. I know what the agreements were then and I do not think they have changed the substance. I think there's really more to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u142	Let me begin by saying that what Mrs Van Kooten has just said is the absolute truth. It is up to the electorate to judge that. My question is about the fact that we are really not going to reach an agreement today, because one half of the Chamber thinks differently from the other half. This Prime Minister is the leader of the teams that have been there for ten years. In those ten years, we have been talking about reducing the administrative burden, the bureaucracy. You were ultimately responsible for that for ten years, and nothing has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u143	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u144	Wouldn't that have been your job?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u145	I have said it before: everything that has gone well over the past ten years does the team and everything that did not go well, respects me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u146	We have now heard from the Prime Minister that he feels that his previous teams have not done well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u147	No, I didn't say that. I say, everything that went well did the team, and anything that didn't go well, you have to charge me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u148	The Prime Minister notes that comparisons with other countries sometimes cannot be made, while the letter sent by the Cabinet shows that we are actually in a comparable wage building with Germany. They're all saying that starting salaries need to be raised to make the profession more attractive, to get more people involved. We, too, have this problem. Then I would like to hear from the Prime Minister whether it is also negotiable in the Netherlands to increase the starting salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u149	All salaries are going to go up, because we will continue to raise salaries with each other in the near future. There's money for that. The question now is to make extra money available on top of that. My point was that it follows from the figures that in 2018, the average salary of hospital nurses in the Netherlands was 18% higher than the average remuneration received by employees in the Netherlands. This makes salaries very competitive with those of police and education, for example. For France, the figures for 2016 were taken into account. At that time, the average salary in France was on average 7% lower than the average remuneration received by employees there. So with us, salaries were 18% higher in 2018 and 7% lower in 2016. For Germany, the average income of a nurse is lower than in the Netherlands. I made that remark because it was told in the first term of the Chamber that there was a decision to increase wages in those countries. Of course you can. There's something to catch up on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u150	I like the fact that the Prime Minister's salary is high for our nurses. But we've just heard all the starting salaries from the helpers and the caregivers. Those are people who are also doing very important work. The question was whether we could not ensure that a good step was taken on that side, at the bottom of the scales. That's a good step you can take by giving me an amount. France does that with €183 net. The lowest scales directly benefit from this, because percentage is a significant step. Why wouldn't this cabinet go and see what can happen to Prince's Day?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u151	Maybe it's good to say something about that $1,300. I also heard of course that employees in home care earn €1,300. I assume that will then be looked at the employees in the household help, the old scale for simple help in the household. This is important work, but it is the lower paid work. That was about the legal minimum wage, maybe a little bit above it. A few years ago, the collective agreement partners in the care of the elderly concluded a new scale of wages for helping the household. In it, the distinction between simple work and more complex help has disappeared. That new scale has six steps. The reward is at the beginning of the scale at €1.740 per month gross for a full-time job. This continues to be around €2,180 gross for a full-time job. If you look at the net salary and ignore the effect of surcharges and the like, it is €1,600 net. That is still absolutely not a fat pot, but it is more than that €1,300 that was mentioned. It is therefore about €1,600 net, and not about €1,300. With this there has been a salary increase given to this group of people, I am quite right to think of about 20%. At the end of their scale this is a salary increase of about 20%. It amounts to €1,600 net and not €1,300 net. Still absolutely no fat pot; I acknowledge that. But there has certainly been a lot of hard work in the past few years to give about 20% increase in salary, if you sell it against final wages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u152	I had to smile a little, because the Prime Minister explains something to someone who has always worked at Care & Wellness and therefore knows exactly what incredible blow people have had in home care. They have been fired, they have had to work as alpha help, they have really been able to experience all the disaster, they have been fired and they have been able to come back for a lower income. So the 20% the Prime Minister says isn't fat, right? It's still not fat. And this work should be much better appreciated. That is what this debate is about. So the question is: is this cabinet prepared to look at Princess Day to see if they can reward the people in care in euros, so that the lowest scales benefit most from it? As far as we are concerned, this €183 net is a beautiful target amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u153	The numbers I just mentioned are right. Again, no fat, but it is not a €1,300 net but €1,600 net and an increase of 20%. Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS is absolutely right that there has, of course, been considerable reorganisation in this sector and that this has had a huge impact on people. Absolutely. She knows that like no other from her earlier work. But I wanted to show that a great deal has happened in salaries. What I am in favour of, and what the cabinet is in favour of, is that we do not destroy a sensible system like we have in the Netherlands, in which salaries tend to be in the care of the contract wage development of people in the companies. There could be a plea to do some extras on top of that. I do not think that is wise at this time for the reason I have mentioned, namely because there are also other major issues at the moment which will naturally have enormous effects on other public sectors. They'll say, "Hey, what does that mean for us?" This means further upward pressure at a time when we are facing a major economic crisis. I don't think that's wise. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to a second and last main point and then to a few separate questions. Mr Heerma and others referred to the Van den Berg cum suis motion of June 2020, which deals with discussions with social partners on a number of aspects. This includes the cases mentioned by Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Segers and Mr Jetten: opportunities for growth, control, autonomy and administrative burdens. We are prepared to come up with a letter on what these talks are about, but I have to say that I was a little shocked by the timing. If all this is to be done by Princess' Day, then I do not know if it is feasible, but I am, of course, prepared to do the Chamber with the results of these talks, as the motion calls for, namely to engage intensively in consultation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u154	For the sake of correction, it concerns Mr Van den Berg's motion, but it is also about the Dik-Faber/Ellemeet motion. It is also mentioned in the letter. It also talks about something that will come back from the Chief Nursing Officer in September, after which there will be talks with the social partners. I understand that the Prime Minister thinks it is short notice, but the cabinet itself writes that talks start in September and after summer. He has actually spent the whole first half of his story explaining that people are not so much worried about salaries as they are about other things. It is just about the things that are in this motion. If we are to have an orderly debate on this in the General Political Reviews, we need to have the latest state of affairs of the talks that the cabinet itself has already announced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u155	Yes, as far as the Dik-Faber/Ellemeet motion is concerned, we await the advice of the Chief Nursing Officer. We expect that at the beginning of September. We will then have those talks as soon as possible. I think that's feasible for Prince's Day. I'll take a look at my colleagues. Let us agree on this because this is important and I feel that it is also felt so politically that we are going to do our utmost not only to conduct these talks but also to finish them for Princess' Day and to report on them; at least the state of the crop, but hopefully also the final position. This concerns both the Van den Berg motion and the Dik-Faber/Ellemeet motion, assuming that the Chief Nursing Officer will deliver that opinion at the beginning of September. But that is foreseen and we have no reason to believe that it will be later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u156	Yes. I see Mr Segers, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Asscher. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u157	Mr Dik-Faber/Ellemeet's motion also calls for legal safeguards. Of course, this is not feasible for Prinsjesdag, but it would be nice if perspective were outlined. Everyone talks about control, about talking along and having the feeling that you're seen and heard. If a perspective, a route, were to be outlined, it would already be very important. I understand that there is still a lot of work to be done, but it would be very nice if that route for Prinsjesdag would be outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u158	Yeah, we're gonna do the best we can for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u159	The Prime Minister talked about and-and-and-and-and-and-so. I understand. The cabinet must weigh all interests and see the overall picture. But then I'd like to ask you something. The affordability of care is indeed an issue. There's a lot of things going on there. Who's gonna pay for the cost of care? But also: who makes sure that a lot of people need a lot of care that they wouldn't need if they hadn't been in an environment where big companies can just make a lot of money making people unhealthy? On 19 May, 1,600 scientists made a call: come on, people, that prevention really needs to be better. I asked the cabinet about that right away. We got a letter. What's in it? "In conversation," "Yes, important, you know, healthy life," "We're gonna see what we can do" "Sometimes in the fall you'll hear about it again." That's impossible, isn't it? We are now at the stage where the cabinet has to answer the en- en- en- en question about which Millions note it is going to present. Then it can't be that the Millions note doesn't include a sugar tax, that it doesn't reverse the VAT increase on fruit and vegetables and that choices aren't really being made to make sure that big companies can't just make money from making our people permanently unhealthy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u160	The question is very much based on a unilateral act by companies whose aim would be to make us unhealthy, which would make us all defenseless victims. I don't see it that way. I do not believe that these companies have that purpose in all cases. In many cases, they don't have that purpose. They will want to make money and there are also good products to be found that you can say: is it wise to drink too much of it? But I wouldn't like to live in a country where I was told that I shouldn't drink Coke anymore. I understand very well that I should not do that too much, because then I become a cube. But every now and then a Coke must be possible and the company must be able to offer it. We have endless prevention programmes to ensure, of course, that people handle this vast array of glories that comes to us all day long. We all know that the effect of a Mars bar is very short and the effect of a plate of vegetables is much longer. Yet you also sometimes like to eat a Mars bar, but not too much. In my opinion, this whole principle is always an interplay between manufacturers, sensible citizens and the government that provides good information. If there were real companies in the middle that weren't right, you'd have to deal with them, of course. But I believe that the firms mentioned by Mrs Ouwehand do not belong to firms that are not good. I see Mr Wilders laughing. It itself has lost quite a lot of weight, so it is possible, despite the fact that the country owns those beautiful companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u161	Of course, no company writes in its objectives: our mission is to make the whole of the Netherlands unhealthy. No, they make money selling unhealthy products. They have very smart marketing managers in the house, so they know exactly how to get people to buy all that. Don't shuffle away the responsibility of companies like Albert Heijn. That's what it's all about at young children's eye level. They know exactly how to do that. It is not their goal, but the point is that they can pocket the profits they make with it and that we can pay for their social costs, higher care costs. Then the cabinet comes into this debate, in which we ask for a normal payment of care workers, with: it's all very difficult, we have to keep care affordable. Yeah, duh! I do not understand why the cabinet is thinking of getting away with "we'll get away with a contour note on prevention sometime in the autumn" if it makes choices about the Millions note and has once again been warned in the corona crisis that this unhealthy environment really costs far too much. It costs people's lives, it costs people's happiness and it costs a lot of care. You can solve that differently, and the cabinet should just do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u162	But the citizen is not from the state. We are free people who live in a free country where you have the right sometimes to make an unwise choice. You have that right. Of course, you must inform people as well as possible and inform them about what is sensible and not wise. But if you go through with this, you have to ban alcohol, you have to ban smoking, you have to ban drinking Coca-Cola, you have to ban McDonald's. I wouldn't like to live in a country where I can only eat unsprayed vegetables. That sounds very uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u164	I think it's a good idea to eat unsprayed vegetables. That's more than the average Dutchman does every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u165	At least 400 grams.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u166	You can help people by reversing that VAT increase. Then I have a question for the Prime Minister, if he insists on making a caricature of it, as if there is nothing between those companies that gives all the space to cash in and we pay all the care costs and a country in which you prohibit all of that. Then I would like to ask him if that approach of the past few years has been a bit successful now that half the Dutch are overweight, which is not fun for those people themselves and is asking for unnecessary care, which is all to be paid for and for which you need employees. Everyone always says that the only thing really important is your own health. The government has to help people and not the companies that don't care that people's health goes to hell with all those products.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u167	In fact, with regard to smoking, there really is less smoking. Anecdotal about alcohol: when I started in politics it was really different in Nieuwspoort and the Room Restaurant than today. That is anecdotal, but the first is just proven, namely that smoking has fallen considerably in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u168	I notice that the Prime Minister thinks: if I give a letter to Princess Day on the implementation of the Van den Berg motion on the SER recommendation, then everyone will probably be very happy to go home. Well, that's not the case. I want to talk about what we can do. The Prime Minister has said, which also sounded like a very well-known song: I have to do and-and-do, so both abolish the dividend tax and lower the top rate and lower the profit tax, and that is why we cannot increase salaries now. We're not gonna convince him, because that's his ideology. I think that reading these same facts sometimes sounds a bit slutty; it seems like the Prime Minister has not seen Diederik Gommers who also knows how the system works and says that more needs to be done now for the nurses who do the work, because he is not responding. I got the impression that with both Jetten and Heerma there is more to be achieved for the people in care. My only question to the Prime Minister now is whether he recognizes that it is possible, that it is a matter of political will, to make choices in the event of scarcity, but that it is possible, namely an additional increase in salaries, given what is coming to us now. Does the Prime Minister recognize that this is possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u169	Of course, you can always decide to seriously dimension one aspect of government policy, but that is at the expense of other things. This is not so much the case with the points that Mr Asscher just mentioned; these are the things that have been raised from the Chamber. It is, of course, about the very broad front of public policy. We are now seeing public debt rising towards 60%, perhaps 70% compared to national income. This is possible because the previous cabinet and this cabinet have managed to reduce public debt as a percentage of national income to between 40% and 50%. As a result, there is this great apple for the thirst that some others wanted to eat immediately, which we fortunately did not do so that we can now take that blow. Income tax in the Netherlands is still high. The burden on people in the Netherlands is still high and has increased rather than decreased. Only, on balance, the increase in tax due to the crisis is a tax incentive for citizens and not for businesses, because they still have to deal with a significant tax increase. I don't feel sorry for those companies, but people work there again, and you need those jobs. So, of course, you can always decide to say that we are going from 50,000 to 500,000 agents or that we are going to put a lot of extra money into the healthcare pay, but my point of view would be that we are going to increase and that we are going to increase with the wages of the companies and even a little more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u170	The Prime Minister refers to the burden on companies and the distribution that was made after the crisis in 2008. You may understand that I do think that is a bit of an argument seen where we are now in our country. The conclusion was very clear. It is not a question of whether it is possible, it is a question of whether we want it politically here. I don't have any more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u171	Everything's like that. You can make the state debt go up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u172	An important part of the Prime Minister's speech was: what you want actually happens, namely wages will simply increase in the coming years. However, at the same time, of course, we are dealing with the corona crisis with economic effects and the estimates of the Central Planning Office show that the amount of money will be less in the future and that wages in the market sector will fall. So isn't there the risk that it won't continue to rise by itself when those many collective agreements are over by mid 2021 and that that growth will not be there after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u173	The objective of the 1999 agreement was, of course, to ensure that healthcare salaries increase in line with contract wage developments in industry, in the market sectors. Mr Van der Staaij says: if you look at the latest CPB estimates, it is obvious that the contract wage estimate in the market sectors will be lower than initially estimated as a result of the crisis. That's absolutely true. That's what Van Ark writes in last night's letter to the Chamber. This will, of course, be reflected in the rise in wages among the people in the care sector. That's right. But they remain linked to wage increases in the market sectors. But they're probably gonna be lower than expected. That's right. But otherwise they would rise much faster than the market sectors. And then you have a real imbalance, especially with police, education and other public sectors. So I think that link would be wiser. On average, they increase slightly more than wages in companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u174	If you say that a certain wage development expected by the crisis may not be achieved in the future, would that not justify the fact that there is a somewhat larger public contribution in the future, because we would also very much like to make that care attractive because we also have a huge shortage of staff? So isn't that an argument for getting more people into that care in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u175	I get that. I just showed you those numbers from 2018. This shows that currently, on average, wages in health care are so much higher than the average salary in the Netherlands. This shows that we are doing so much better compared to France and Germany. Of course, I would also like to do more, but then you are going to give an extra wage increase in a crisis, in which so many other things have to happen. The bonus now takes place. Very important! This is also a substantial expenditure of gross 1.4 billion, net 800 million. On top of that, there is the normal wage increase in care. It's going on. It is likely to be lower than expected in 2021, as wages in companies will of course increase less rapidly. But they're still connected. I think that is a sensible approach. If, on top of that, what a number of groups are suggesting here, you give an extra wage increase, then of course you will get into what Mr Baudet said? Make choices in scarcity. That is the role of politics. And that scarcity is now there. So then the question is, however sympathetic and important are the sectors we are talking about here... even if you see why people stop in that sector. That's not because of the salary. That reason is called seventh. That's really what's really going on here today. I mention the administrative burden, the job pleasure and the bureaucracy. That's what it's in when people stop. Fortunately, most people continue to work and have a lot of fun at work. But the people who quit indicate that it's for those reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u176	It is certainly true that there are other very important points and an extra effort is needed to tackle this regulatory burden, this red tape, so that people can experience more challenge in their work. But that bonus is at least a concrete point that has been agreed for this year as a one-off measure. Alone, that's all going to take quite a long time. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that, precisely when it comes to the signal to health workers and their symbolism, it is really necessary to avoid any further delay? We really need to get benefits as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes, we do. By the way, I'm sorry, but that's where it gets really complicated. Everything is now aimed at making it possible for the healthcare provider to apply for the bonus of €1,000 net for the healthcare professional as of 1 October as an applicant for the bonus. That is also in line with the letter of 25 June. Then it is planned that the award will take place in December. That's still in line with that letter. This means that the healthcare provider can pay out the bonus to the employees. This will probably take place just after the turn of the year in January. The starting point is and will remain to apply the scheme as widely as possible with as little administrative burden as possible for the healthcare provider. So that's in line with the letter we sent to the Chamber on June 25th. We're doing everything we can to keep that from slowing down, but it's a big group. It concerns 800,000 people out of a total of 1.3 million people in healthcare. So it's just a complex operation. In fact, we have to be honest about that. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps one more thing on the issue of care and administrative burdens. I have already said a lot about it, but there is still a specific question from Mr Dijkhoff. The programme (Ont) Regulal de Zorg has been running for two years. It's in progress. 90 action points have been completed. You can see now that the general experienced control pressure has been slightly reduced. That reduction is greatest in physiotherapists. It's not enough. So more needs to be done. You can see now, because of corona, things have gotten in a gear. Suddenly digital work is done much faster and e-health is applied. We really want to hold on to that. The next progress report will be presented in the autumn. In education, which I once said you had to meet for ten years to make home education possible, it was settled in 24 hours when we asked the teachers. Maybe not all perfect, but in such a crisis things can suddenly speed up very much and we want to hold on to that. I agree with Mr Dijkhoff that, of course, politics itself can also contribute a great deal to minimising additional regulatory pressure by not responding to every incident with a structural solution. That is, of course, the tendency we all have here, not only the Chamber but also the government. Of course, we must always encourage ourselves not to make that mistake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u178	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u179	Am I hearing correctly that the care heroes can only expect their health bonus after the turn of the year? That's absurd, isn't it? My motion was adopted unanimously on 18 March. She was supported by the entire Chamber and widely embraced by the Cabinet. And then the cabinet will need almost another year to get that on the account of the care heroes, while large companies will indeed receive billions of aid and that can be dealt with very quickly. What's this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u180	A few steps need to be taken, as stated in the letter of 25 June, which Mrs Van Kooten also had. In that you can see that on 1 October the healthcare provider, the applicant for the bonus, can apply for the bonus for the professional and that the award will take place in December. Then the healthcare provider must, of course, pay it out to the employee. That will then be expected, and I do not want to outline here things that we cannot deliver, not in December, but probably in January. It was described in the letter of 25 June. This cannot be new to Mrs Van Kooten, because that letter was sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u181	Mr Wilders has one more question, and I also see Mr Klaver rising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u182	I wasn't done with all the answers, but with Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u183	From Mrs. Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u184	From me and Mrs. Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u185	No, it doesn't work that way, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u186	Then I'll fill it in, because this is, Mr. Prime Minister, something we shouldn't make political. As Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen quite frankly says, with her motion, everyone, Chamber, Cabinet, from left to right and center, agrees. So let's not make this political. But of course I agree with her very much that it cannot be that the motion will be adopted in March and that it will not be paid out until next year. Can't you promise the Chamber to do everything in its power to get it on their tabs this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u187	We tried. I can assure you of that. If you can do it in December, that's great. But I don't want to give that impression here. Why is that? It's a very large group, 800,000 people. What we are now making possible is that on 1 October the person who offers the care can apply for that bonus, but then, of course, this must also lead to money for the healthcare provider. That must be done very precisely. It is a lot of money; it must be done properly. So it's three steps. The healthcare provider has to apply, who then gets the money from us and then gives it to the professionals. These are three steps that need to be taken carefully. I guess it'll be January before December, huh, Hugo? He's always a little milder than me. We're really trying to get it on the pay slips of the people involved before Christmas. That's better. I'm more careful. Very good. Then there was the question about the Stichting Vroepseer. Mrs. Van Brenk brought that up. We did not know them, at least not in this context. So if you help us, we're gonna make contact with that. Then there was the question of rising healthcare costs. They have increased for a number of years in line with the economy. We've had years of them just underneath. You can now assume that they are rising faster than the economy, also given the large shrinkage of the economy and the huge additional costs that are being incurred now, rightly and logically, because of the fight against the virus. I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr Klaver and then Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u189	In a little less than an hour, the Prime Minister has answered all the questions. In fact, there is a great deal of agreement from the left to the right that salaries in health care should be raised and the only answer we get is: no, that is irresponsible; we are not going to do that. But now I have one question, one final question, to the cabinet. We are moving towards budgetary treatment. I believe that it is important, especially in corona time, to have broad support for the policy that is being made. In what way is the cabinet going to do a hand-out, broad, to the entire opposition here, and also to the care, when you see that 75 seats here in the Chamber do consider it important that we do something about these rewards structurally? I mean, the answer today can't just be "no." There's gotta be room somewhere. Where's the room? How is this cabinet going to work on this broad consensus, including for the healthcare budget to come this autumn?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u190	As we always do, by discussing content and trying to convince each other. That is what this debate is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u191	Mrs Van Brenk, also the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u192	That's right, Mr. Chairman, but I'm getting some apps in, and I think I'll just ask that question anyway. There are a number of people whose contract is not renewed. Mrs Marijnissen already mentioned someone whose contract expires and is not renewed. They've been working the snot in front of their eyes. Do they still get the $1,000? Can we ensure that all those people who then made that effort and who may later be unemployed will at least get what they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u193	I get the question. Let me double-check it. This is about people whose contract is not renewed before the bonus is paid and who would normally get the bonus, when they don't get it now? Because of course it runs through the healthcare provider, we are going to find out very precisely. I get the question. We'll come back to the reaction to... Is there a second term? Oh, no. Then we have to come back to that in writing. We will return to that in writing. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u194	The Chamber will receive a written response to this. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-08-19-tweedekamer-3.u195	A request has been made to vote today, a roll-call vote. Then I'll take a look at everyone for a short suspension. How long shall we suspend? Ten minutes? We're just gonna vote in groups like we did. Ten minutes, yeah? Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
