ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u1	The subject is now the continuation of the examination of the Law 35538, Temporary Law Notification Application covid-19. I welcome the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport back to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u2	We now come to the second term from the Chamber. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you should read the text yourself and then put it on the table to your right. The Courtesy will collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday we had a very interesting, penetrating and informative afternoon and evening about the law surrounding the corona app. I would certainly also like to thank the Minister and his official organisation, the supporting officials, for the efforts that have been made to answer all the questions we have asked as a forum for democracy. I have to say, that has certainly given some more light in the backgrounds that the Minister moves to come up with a corona app in this form. There are a few things that we think are important and that we also want to point out briefly. We have indicated in our input that we consider the system of approach, the system of security for the population, to be very important. We mean that if a happens, b must also happen. In this case of the corona app, we have appointed it so that tests must also be carried out in order to give reassurance and security to our people. We have another point of great interest specifically around the app: the urge or compulsion, as it is called. I'm just calling it the possibility that people feel compelled to participate in that app despite being completely voluntary. I am then concerned about certain situations in which people are in the relationship between employer and employee and can't really get out of it. So that volunteering is difficult. I have just mentioned the testing sideways. That was extensively highlighted yesterday. Especially the Party for Animals but also other parties, including ours, say: are these tests correct and, above all, are they there? Are there enough tests and when? Because when one comes, the other has to be there. It is, of course, terrible that it is already the case that 200 inhabitants of the Netherlands are on ice. That's not good. In our input we have therefore also indicated: make sure that the ic-capacity is not on that 1,750, but try really to go to 2,500 to 2,750. It gives so much reassurance to the people when they know it is there, that there isn't immediately crunched and, even more annoyingly, there is at some point a limitation in the regular care...................................................................................................................................................................................... We've already mentioned the smartphone for the elderly. You then came up with numbers that I'm saying are fluttering over my head. It's unbelievable. Our children have less smartphones than the elderly. But of course it wasn't about the smartphone but about the smartphone that works. The technical briefing clearly states that a very large group cannot work with the app. So let's get some clarity on that. I've mentioned the Oxford investigation before. In it, you indicate "b" and you repeat that "b" that a very small population is already sufficient to make the app successful for the purpose it is supposed to be for. I would like some more clarification on that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Faber-van de Klashorst, on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Several senators have already installed the CoronaMelder. By doing so, they prove that this law is superfluous. But according to the VVD, the law is very important for confidence, so citizens can be tempted to install. From this you can conclude that almost ten years of Rutte did not exactly lead to confidence among the citizens. The Minister, like his CDA-party colleague, Mrs. Prins, states that the app is stupid. However, the API is not stupid. The app is stupid, but the API isn't. In that API everything happens: calculating data and storing the data, as well as contact details. It may not have your home address in it, but it does have your MAC address, which is always traceable. The Minister himself replied in the response of the First Chamber by question 146 that the codes are not stored in the app but in the API. That includes the contact moments. This allows you to easily control a quarantine, if you wish. It is in fact a form of enforcement, which is again part of the fight against COOVID-19. I am also waiting for the answer as to why the GP is not included in the procedure of the GPD. The PVV Group is still of the opinion that this way the general practitioner is excluded. I'd like an answer from the Minister to that. The PVV Group doesn't mind if people want to download an app, but that doesn't require this law. And certainly not with Google and Apple's API. Therefore, the PVV will support an initiative for a motion from the SP. Mrs Gerkens will clarify this motion. It is clear that the PVV will not support this superfluous law. Because why lay down rules for voluntary action? It is better to gain confidence in a different way than by adopting an unnecessary law. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mrs Faber-Van de Klashorst. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Adriaansens on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and also his officials for the proper answer to the questions and the patience he has shown in doing so. We have, after all, dealt very extensively with the matter surrounding the virus. Something's really going on. I was among the companies yesterday by taking another look at NOS. Care is being scaled down. Reports are coming in from people who suffer from all kinds of phenomena even after corona has been restored. In my opinion, the importance of doing everything we can with each other to contain this virus is very obvious. It's extremely important that we do that with each other. I am pleased that a number of colleagues have called for a great deal of attention to be paid to the other, because I believe that this is also our responsibility. I hope this Chamber will soon accept the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mrs Adriaansens. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bredenoord on behalf of the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister and his team on behalf of my group for his comprehensive answers, including for his written correspondence, even yesterday after the first deadline. In that first period, on behalf of my group, I explained why we see possible added value in that app, but also what we are concerned about in terms of volunteering and how you do so in the app communication from the government to citizens, but also among citizens. We have also expressed our concerns about testing policy. In fact, we have addressed these issues extensively in the debate. The test policy is being scaled up. We continue to encourage the Minister to do so, so that we are ultimately in the situation that people without complaints, but with positive notification, can also be tested, not immediately, but after three or four days, when the virus is traceable. We also discussed the question of how to do this with communication and what the limits of a moral appeal are or are not. We can now talk about this in theory, but as far as I'm concerned now is the proof of the pudding in the eating. I think that is why the evaluation is really important. It should also be possible to adjust if it is shown that people do, even if there is no formal coercion, because that is legally guaranteed in the scheme, after all, experience some form of pressure or discomfort. As far as I'm concerned, there are two outstanding issues. I would like to ask whether the Minister would like to deal with this in the second term. Yesterday there appeared to be some uncertainty about the margin of error. Different percentages were used here. It would be nice if the Minister could clarify this once and for all, so that we can talk about the same thing here. I think he's already announced that. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister, as I anticipated yesterday, whether he would like to give a formal mandate to the Health Council to develop a framework with criteria for the use of health apps. That's 500,000 of them by now. This is, of course, a very pregnant app, also because it is developed by the government in a health crisis. So that doesn't mean we have to wait for that advice from the Health Council first. That could be something running parallel, at the same time. People may recognize that after such a debate you cannot sleep immediately, so I did some thinking last night. I think you can develop a framework similar to the criteria of Wilson and Jungner, so that the quality eventually goes up and we can also reduce the uncertainty of people if it is good enough. For example, what is the benchmark you use? The minister said yesterday that he should be at least as good as the people's memory at the G.D.D. and in the search. Is that also a benchmark for other apps? How loadable is the app? Are we working according to the principles of privacy by design? What is the seriousness of the problem that the app wants to be a solution to or to be a strategy for? Are there any action options? Are they acceptable? Can you ask permission? Are the costs of diagnostics and treatment that may follow after the app acceptable and proportionate? Those are a few thoughts inspired by those criteria of Wilson and Jungner. I hope the Minister will undertake to give this order. Otherwise, I will table a motion here in the next term. Mr. Chairman. I hope the Minister will be able to deal with this, but all in all, I will actually advise my own group to vote in favour of the legislative proposal in the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mrs Bredenoord. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nooren on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you to the Minister and through him to the officials, because I think they have worked hard to provide us with a comprehensive answer. I would also like to thank the Minister for his patience in giving the same answers repeatedly. I think it is quite important in this debate that the Minister tries to get broad support for this app. In the eyes of the PvdA Group, the debate has turned to two words: voluntaryity and trust. As far as the PvdA Group is concerned, the voluntary nature has been sufficiently demonstrated and the Minister has repeatedly indicated that it is this law and that he does not intend to go further in it. We also welcome his commitment that people who are tracked down under source and contact research will be treated the same as people who are tracked down through the app. The Minister stressed that communication that will be voluntary will always come forward and repeated. The PvdA Group also agrees with the Minister on the opinions. If we were to approach them all voluntarily, we wouldn't be able to control the corona crisis. I think it is a justified remark from the Minister: they are opinions, or directives, or protocols. I am pleased that the Minister has now found in the Collective Prevention Act the article on obligations to isolate people. It can only be done if we all adjust our behavior and actually take advice excessively seriously. I'm saying the same thing to avoid the following. Since March my daughter has been working at Ikazia's internal medicine department and now reluctantly has to transfer people to Zwolle, because they no longer have a place. I have to be the driver of Bartiméus already... In mid-July, the daily consumption started and, given the number of infections, people are forced to stay in their homes for weeks. This concerns people who are intellectually limited or autistic, people who see nothing and don't understand it at all. We're also doing this to prevent that from happening, because we can only do it together. This is perhaps through the Minister an appeal to the rest of the Netherlands to keep it up. Then I get to the point of trust. In my view, these are three things: the government, the system and each other. I'll start with the government. The PvdA Group believes that the Minister is doing and should continue to do everything in his power to take that approach. We talked today about the tests and the quick tests that are needed. That will be a crucial point. I have one more question for the Minister. In the written reply he indicated: we do not know very well how to convince people to stay home. The Minister then replied that he was going to think about additional measures. I would like another answer on that point. What can the Minister do, or what can we do with each other, to convince people that working at home really makes sense? The second point is, of course, about the tests. The biggest dilemma of this bill is the following. If we enter it and there's a bigger pressure coming from people calling to be tested because they have a complaint, how do we prevent it from having a counter-effect? It is therefore a question of the tension between the introduction of the legislative proposal now and the lack of proper testing capacity at the moment. I would like to have a reflection from the Minister on this. Then I come to information, which is also a role of the government. We have had an extensive exchange of views on this issue. I think it is important for the Minister to indicate that he is going to use target-oriented communication and more than just a partner-strategy campaign. I would ask the Minister to report to us on this and on the range. An evaluation study is being carried out and perhaps it is also possible to inform this Chamber about its effectiveness. We are here, of course, to monitor the implementation of the law. I think there is one more point that can be taken. In the debate, particularly with Mr Nicolaï, you referred to the CoronaMelder website. Mrs Bredenoord has a wonderful idea about new digital possibilities. I've only been through the website. Many of Mr Nicolaï's questions are not on the website either. I would advise the Minister, under Q&A, or frequently asked questions, to return more answers to questions from society. These are questions about the fact that in three-quarters of the cases you get a good result, about the 1.5 meters and the fifteen minutes. I think it really helps if you create a website that answers the questions people have in their head and you refer to in the app. I would like to ask the Minister to agree to look even more closely at the points mentioned by Mr Nicolaï. So they should at least be on the website and the app should make a very targeted reference to that website. Then the system. The answers on privacy were convincing for my group. There are still some bottlenecks about Apple, Google and international collaboration. That is why we support a motion that Mrs Gerkens is about to table. There has indeed been a question about error-positive testing and what that means. If you get a call, you have to stay home. I hope that the Minister will be able to provide an adequate response. We also fully endorse Mrs Bredenoord's plea for a broader exploration. I think it is a very special step that is now being taken with this app, but we are going to work much more with the digitalization of care. Then it is very important to develop a reference framework for this type of detection. Whether it's invasive or not, it doesn't matter: you're tracking with a digital device and you expect behavioural consequences. It is very good to develop a reference framework for this. So even if it didn't work out, I hope we can do it. Otherwise, we're gonna file a motion on that. The last point concerns confidence in each other. That's why I'm coming back to volunteering. I think the only way we're gonna do it is if we're gonna do it together. Trust and voluntaryity touch each other. I hope that together we manage to take another step to actually control the corona virus. All in all, it means that if the answers to these questions are sufficient, I will advise my group to vote in favour of this bill, albeit it is a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u12	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I call Mr Nicolaï on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr President. It was a solid debate. I certainly contributed to that strength. I would like to thank the Minister for coming with me over and over again in that fight. I've learned a lot too, and I'll get back to you on that. For me, yesterday it was very much about the difference between ethics and justice. If you force people to do something, a rule of law, it's easy. The answer for group 8 is therefore easy: you have to do it; you have to do it, otherwise you will get a sanction. It's different with ethics. Then you're not saying you're obligated or you're sanctioned, but you're supposed to do something. There's always a way to find out: if you can. Because that is the ethical aspect. This also means that when you face ethical questions, you end up in an atmosphere of balance. That's what I talked about yesterday in my contribution. I still have questions about it and I still do not see how the Chamber and the Minister position themselves in this. That consideration takes place at two times. If you're going to install the app or not, the weighing up is in the question: if I get a notification with an opinion, so the Minister called it, I'll come back to that later. What am I going to do? After all, it is not an obligation. If it's a legal obligation, then the police will come along, I'll get a fine and so on. But what am I gonna do? I would like to say right away that it would be a pity if the Minister and others in the Chamber thought that the Animal Party did not think we should do anything. On the contrary, we need to get that corona down. But I like clarity and I like responsibility and volunteering. I'm coming to that volunteer. I said that volunteering has two aspects: you have to be able to choose for yourself, but you also have to know where you're going to choose between. At that time, I am glad that Mrs Nooren supports me in this. All kinds of questions are not answered at the moment and they are not addressed in the CoronaMelder either. I'm going to table a motion on that later, Mr. Chairman. That also means: how free am I? I can only take my own freedom and responsibility if I know exactly what the consequences are, but also if I know exactly how reliable that app is. I assume the Minister will deal with this later. I have consistently pointed out, on the basis of the investigation of his own ministry, that in six out of ten cases a notification is given when you have not at all 15 minutes within that 1.5 meter wrong. I shall come back to that later in my motion. Secondly, the message. I learned a lot yesterday. Above all, I have learned how important it is for us to express ourselves. In this case, "us" means above all: the government. And we're part of that government. We must express ourselves precisely. Lubach has already made a bit of a laugh about that. Is it advice? Next time it is urgent advice, and so on. Yesterday, I fought a little rubbert with the minister about the following. I said, if you give advice, you leave it to the person concerned to follow that advice. The Minister was right to say: yes, that is correct, but we do mean, in substance, that he should follow the advice. What is easier now not to say to someone that he is getting advice, but to say: you are supposed to do so and so? That's different from giving advice. We say to the person concerned: you are supposed to do so and so, even if it is not a legal obligation. That kind of clarity, I like it and I stand for it. I would ask the Minister to reconsider whether the use of the word "advisory" is so clever. Then there is my second point. When I am told in a notification that I am supposed to make a pass on the spot, there is always an ethical choice. An ethical choice means as long as it's possible. An ethical choice also means: maybe I'm not going to my grandmother and grandma, but I'm going to do that exam. That's a choice you have to make yourself. There are different degrees in that. Yesterday I noticed the ease with which it is said that there is really only one choice: you are going into quarantine anyway. Then you ignore the fact that the person who gets the notification is faced with very complicated questions where he has to take responsibility. Taking responsibility also means knowing exactly what happens if he doesn't and what happens if he does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u14	I'm trying to understand you, Mr. Nicolaï. I'm going a long way with you. You emphasise very much the good things: voluntaryness, good communication. This also includes good information. Yet there are a few things that make me puzzle. I find the word "honoured" to be quite a difficult word, but perhaps that's up to me. You are now putting a lot of emphasis on this, but I think you want to make it clear that people are getting advice and that there is some kind of moral importance for us to cooperate with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u15	In that moral debate it should be clear what is morally expected of the person concerned. Yesterday, I said: if you tell the person concerned that he's getting advice, you let him swim. If you say you're supposed to do that and do that, you're going to make another announcement. But then you must also say immediately: you are supposed to do so and so, but we honestly say that you are not legally obliged to do so. That's just fair. I am not in favour of the legal obligation, but the majority of Parliament can choose to do so, but we have not gone that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u16	I understand what you are saying, but I would like to oppose the way in which you now put it and prescribe it, and give it almost a compelling tone. Words like "you are considered" and "you are not legally held to" are also a little abracadabra for a large part of the people. In my opinion, it is up to us to say that your story is very strong, to stress the importance of working together, to ensure that people also know what the consequences are and that we should inform people properly. I think you said something about someone taking an exam, but I don't think you should, so we have to give the good examples. And I think I'm in complete agreement with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u17	Well, I'm the last one to hear that Mrs Adriaansen agrees with me, so I just wanted to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u18	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u19	Mr. Chairman. That consideration, that's what I was talking about. What am I gonna do for those ten days when I'm supposed to go into home quarantine? In that consideration it is necessary that someone can also get a way out and that we have a perspective for those people. For that single mom, that student who's threatening to miss an exam, the employee who's hearing from the shopkeeper, "yes, if you're not coming, I'm gonna have to close the store." Over and over again, all the groups have said that that perspective would be there when it can be tested as soon as possible, because then you can say to someone: 'you know, you just wait three days and then we'll see again'. To say to someone "just stay home for ten days" is a step too far for me. Mr. Chairman. Considering that, I propose two motions. The first motion is as follows. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ethical analysis of the COVID-19 notification app indicates that the choice or use of CoronaMelder volunteering and the taking of responsibility should be paramount;]] [[Whereas this requires accurate, transparent and complete information on the usefulness and operation of CoronaMelder to the person considering installing the app;]] [[Having regard to the opinion of the ……]] [[that the field test of 8 June 2020 commissioned by the VWS Minister shows that "the reliability of the app is around 70%-75%';]] [[that the field test also shows that "59% of all notifications issued are unjustified';]] [[that a notification (assuming that it was correct) cannot be inferred that the person concerned has been within 1,5 metres of an infected person for at least 15 minutes, but only that his phone has been within 1,5 metres of an infected person's telephone during that time;]] [[that the person concerned is free to refrain from installing and using CoronaMelder and should not be put under pressure by anyone;]] [[that the notification leads to an opinion that the data subject is supposed to follow even if no legal action can be taken against the data subject in the event of non-execution;]] [[Whereas the information contained in these five points is of interest to the person in charge of the choice whether to install and use CoronaMelder;]] [[calls on the government to include the information contained in these five points in the information on the usefulness and operation of CoronaMelder that comes into view when installing the app,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35358-H]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the second motion proposed by the Party for Animals. The President shall: Mr Nicolaï proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is important for the person who receives a notification via CoronaMelder that he can be tested as soon as possible;]] [[Whereas, as long as no test result has been obtained, the person and those who belong to his household are in great uncertainty and are under emotional pressure;]] [[Whereas, in the absence of sufficient test capacity, it is necessary to avoid that people choose to uninstall CoronaMelder in order to avoid being forced to notify because they would have to go into home quarantine for a long time as no rapid test result can be obtained;]] [[Whereas CoronaMelder was originally intended to ensure that persons who have not yet shown COVID-19 symptoms are tested as soon as possible if they have been in contact with an infected person;]] [[Whereas, for the above reasons, it is undesirable to activate CoronaMelder as long as due to insufficient test capacity it cannot be advised to have a test carried out as soon as possible in case of notification;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone the entry into force of the Temporary Law Notification Application Covid-19 until sufficient testing capacity is available to ensure that a test result can be obtained within three days,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-I]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijk on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u23	Minister, thank you very much for the answer and for once again underlining the need for voluntary, privacy, the continued measurement of the social impact, the shaping of an adequate evaluation and so on. It is very good that this has also been changed in this Chamber in plenary. The SGP will support this bill and sincerely hopes that it will be a tool to contain corona. Another little sighting on my part, for what it's worth. At some point, I was somewhat shocked by the undertone in the debate. Any critical question may be asked, of course, but, as far as I am concerned, it is still not quite normal, nor is it harmless, if people's representatives so openly express doubts about the real intentions of the cabinet. Like "yes, there is a law that explicitly guarantees voluntaryity, but the cabinet actually wants a duty for citizens to use the app; this bill is just a masquerade." Or "behind the app is actually a very different agenda than the corona fight." But also the loose drop of words like "scam software" does something with the credibility of the cabinet and is, I think, not harmless. It just smells like insinuations that we encounter on certain websites and destroy the mutual trust that is necessary for a society. Members of parliament may be extremely critical of cabinet policy, but if they deliberately question the intentions of the cabinet and suggest that the cabinet has a different agenda than it says, then you shouldn't be surprised if we undermine government authority, with all the disruptive consequences of that. Let's keep at least five feet away from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u24	Is that the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u25	That is the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u26	Thank you. Mrs. Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Can Mr Van Dijk not imagine that you would become somewhat suspicious when a bill is on the table that is in fact superfluous? That is even stated in the opinion of the Council of State. It even states that the Council of State agrees with the government that it is a superfluous bill. We always call this very loving "le chambre de réflexion." Well, then I guess we don't reflect so well with all of us, because why are we going to pass a law that's unnecessary? I didn't get a good answer to that, but maybe Mr. Van Dijk can give me that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u28	Thank you for your question. Of course, I'd like to go into that. It was a perception on my part, how we experienced it. It is true: a law is not necessary in law, but the Cabinet underlines its willingness to do so in order to gain confidence in that app. That is why it also wishes to underline this voluntary nature with a legal basis. That's what the SGP shares. To put it another way, then, there will now be a law that guarantees voluntaryity, which seems to be a set-up to a law that should actually oblige all citizens, that is to say, insinuations. You can only do that if you actually say openly 'yes, Minister, you say this, but actually you are joking', let me say it nicely. Again, I deliberately didn't want to mention any names either. I think all critical questions can be asked here, but the ease with which it is said 'the cabinet says something, but its agenda is actually different', I think link. We see that broad in our society, and in the end it makes us all worse, I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u29	Well, it's getting interesting, because Mr. Van Dijk is talking about the government joking. That jogging is also present with this bill, I think, when you look at the answers to the questions. When answering the questions in the Upper Chamber, it was said that Google and Apple cannot unilaterally change the terms and conditions. The answer in the House of Representatives stated that that is possible. So there's a discrepancy between that and that. Either one is true or the other is true. Mr Van Dijk talks about trust, but how is it that we lose faith in this government? That's because we're just being fooled every time! There's always a reason. That's the same thing as there's a dog that comes to you every time, and you slap it every time. Then the doggy doesn't come because you don't trust him anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u30	I understand. Again, I've quite consciously said it's an observation and I say "for what it's worth." I don't really want to make that a big discussion. It is true: we too are occasionally critical of the cabinet. But there are also parties that are getting big at the moment, mainly by feeding distrust and suggesting things that, in my opinion, sometimes are the truth or do not do justice to the intentions as expressed by the cabinet. Well, I tried to warn you about that. Let's all put our hands in our own bosoms and also treat each other honestly and as far as I'm concerned stylishly. The last thing we need to do is openly question each other's intentions. Let's ask each other about the content. You do, and the Minister will undoubtedly discuss these critical questions further in the near future. It's very good that we're seeing each other like this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u31	Mrs Faber, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u32	I'll stick with this last time. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me this opportunity. It is a fact that there is a difference in the response for the First Chamber and for the Second Chamber. That has nothing to do with feeding distrust, which has to do with reading and critically judging the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u33	Mistakes are being made. Mistakes can also creep in a response. But it's another thing when you say to the cabinet on that basis: you come up with a law and you say you want to guarantee volunteering, but your actual agenda is a surveillance company or a duty for all citizens. That was what I heard yesterday in the debate and I do not think that is a very good way of dealing with each other that fits in with the relationship between Chamber and Cabinet. Unfortunately, I also see too many bad examples on all kinds of websites that many people eagerly drink. That's not harmless.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Baay-Timmerman on behalf of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last night, the Minister gave detailed answers to numerous questions, even those far beyond this bill. That is a credit to him, and my group thanks him for that. It was also gratifying to hear that the Minister did not rule out the possibility in advance that tests without complaints would be possible again after receiving a notification as was the case at the CoronaMelder test phase. However, this will only be possible when the test capacity is sufficient. The Minister expressed the expectation that this might be at the beginning of November, but he could not give firm guarantees. The test capacity is precisely what my group at first instance focused on. Anyone who receives a notification that they may have come into contact with an infected person wants to know if they are infected. Because uncertainty only increases the unrest. My group does not think it is very good to go into isolation for ten days in advance after a notification without any complaints, especially for the target groups mentioned by Mr Nicolaï. This will require detailed information, and my group will be happy to hear how this will be clarified by the Minister. Perhaps this willingness still exists at the time of the first notification, but what if a second or a third notification is received? Will we then go back and forth into home isolation for ten days? Mr. Chairman. I still miss answering my questions about the extra four days of alertness to complaints after the end of the ten days of home isolation. After that ten-day quarantine, there's still a chance you'll get complaints. I would like to hear from the Minister what that says about the risk of contamination for others. Finally, Mr President. Late last night, I understood that the Minister made a commitment that when using test laboratories outside Europe, he always guarantees that he will always use the safeguards concerning privacy and the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation, which does not, of course, apply outside Europe, as guidance to check whether or not he can go with those test laboratories. Then I have another question that is somewhat in line with a practical example. At some point we talked about that foreigners in the Netherlands might also be able to download the Dutch CoronaMelder, all in the context of combating the spread. My son lives and works in Barcelona, but still has a Dutch phone. The analog GGD cannot call with a foreign number. My son got infected, but the organization didn't have the ability to call a foreign number. Would you like to pay attention to that, too? I don't know if the G.D.D. can call here to any number. That, of course, strengthens the goal of the CoronaMelder. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mrs Baay. I call Mrs Prins-Moderaar, on behalf of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr President, first of all we would like to thank the Minister for answering the many questions that were put yesterday. We welcome the Minister's commitment that, in consultation with the Secretary of State for the Interior, he will continue to investigate the development of the apps through privacy by design and open source, hopefully if the new line is to be shown to the government. We have two more questions that we would like answered. The first one is about the app. The app indicates that you have been in contact, but the app does not guarantee that you would not have been in contact with infected persons. We think it would be a good idea to put that in the app one more time. In the context of care, it seems sensible to us to know that. Another point is one on which Mr Nicolaï has already spoken, but we would like to see it filled in in a slightly different way. We find that several people who are informed that they are infected with corona do not follow the advice of the GGD. We think: the more people who follow advice, the better it is. To what extent can additional activities be launched to make people aware of this? We need to stop this contamination chain together. Are there opportunities, in an information campaign or in all kinds of other ways, to make people aware that they need to change their behaviour further? Because in the end, the behavior is still going to be tested. We shall make that request to the Minister. Finally, we would like to support D66's request to ask the Health Council for an opinion on the criteria. That seems very valuable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Prince-Modern. I would like to give the floor to Mrs De Boer on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister and his staff for answering the questions. I thought it was an interesting debate yesterday. In my opinion, many good suggestions have been made by many of my colleagues in the Chamber. The Minister has taken over some of them and some of them have not. If it's okay, we're gonna hear about the margin of error. I think that Mr Nicolaï has made a number of important points, in which we do not follow him to the full, but to a large extent. That has to do, among other things, with the information he gives around the app. I have looked again what is in the app itself and on the website. I believe that there can indeed be even clearer indications of voluntary activity, including with regard to third parties. You have to say clearly: other people should never ask you about the results or never ask if you have had a notification, not even your employer. That needs to be made more clear. I have heard the Minister say that he can declare by hand on his heart that the app meets 100% of the requirements of the law. I have also heard that he is not prepared to have the app tested again, a kind of final test by the ROS and the AP, but also that attention remains on the security and privacy aspects, including the bugbounty program he mentioned. He assumes that the AP itself will act when there are concerns. I will therefore rephrase my question. Can the Minister promise that the app, if it turns out that it does not comply with or no longer complies with the privacy standards required by the law, will be terminated immediately until it does? With this commitment I can advise my group to vote in favour of the law, or my group members, because we have to vote by roll call. I would like to say a few words about the mistrust. We do see a point and necessity for the law. It is in guaranteeing the privacy conditions in the law and also in guaranteeing the voluntary. It's not just about volunteering with the government that you're or aren't going to oblige you to download that app, but also about volunteering with regard to third parties who may or may not have an app as a condition for getting in somewhere. Nor should it be imposed on workers. There wouldn't be such a guarantee without this law. That is why we see the need, but I would like to hear the commitment that the app, if it turns out that the privacy standards are not being complied with, may or may not be temporarily suspended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mrs De Boer. I would like to give the floor to Mr Verkerk on behalf of the Christian Union Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u41	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the questions of the students of BS De Schatgraver from Landgraaf. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that even at 11 a.m., when he receives the same question the third time, he answers the question very positively as if the question had not yet been discussed. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union Group congratulated the Minister and the officials concerned on the cultural change in the Ministry. It has resulted in an open and transparent development of the app. Our group believes that this openness and transparency is necessary, particularly in a context where the dividing line between criticism and mistrust is thin. The Minister also stated in the note following the report or the explanatory statement that he would like to have the app examined more independently. We would also like to invite the Minister, precisely because there are still points of discussion around the APIs in this Chamber. We would like to thank the Minister for his commitment to make a clear moral appeal to the people to use the app. The Minister has indicated that boards, for example in the care sector, but also in other places, may also make a moral appeal to use the app and that they should also stress that the use of this app is voluntary. Mr. Chairman. Several Members of the Chamber, I refer to Mr Van Pareren's remarks in the second term, but I would like to point out that this is a difficult balance. I think that Mr Nooren has provided a concrete perspective for action by saying: let the boards discuss with their works council how they communicate it. I would like to invite the Minister to go into this more concretely. In the first period, he replied that he was sympathetic to this, but perhaps he could emphasise it a little more. Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Christian Union has also asked for the evaluation to also examine the balance between a clear moral appeal and voluntaryness. It also has to do with the context of mistrust, which our group is not happy with, but which we must note is simply present. Maybe the Minister can say something about this. We would also like to thank the Minister for promising, or at least indicating, that he will communicate intensively on the results of scientific research, including towards the population in the campaign. Mr. Chairman. Mr Nicolaï stressed the importance of the language. Now I am not talking about the word "opinion" or the word "honoured." I would like to invite the Minister to think more closely about this and also to ask with his officials and experts the question: what are the best words? As a group, we have no idea what the best words are, but at least we ask to reflect on them. Mr. Chairman. The fraction of the Christian Union is pleased that the Minister is committed to increasing both the capacity to take the tests and the capacity to measure the tests that have been taken. We have also asked the Minister whether he can really come to an overcapacity on both points, so that the citizens do not have to make an appointment, but simply walk in. We would also like to thank the Minister for saying: that is my commitment and that is the way we want to go. Mr. Chairman. There is one more point in substance which I would like to raise in greater detail. This has to do with what RIVM has put forward in recent days and the Minister has also emphasised in the reply. Two aspects are important in the fight against the second wave. The first aspect is breaking the chain within a region. The second aspect is breaking the chain between regions, in other words bringing the virus from one region to another. In our vision, the app within the Netherlands can contribute to both aspects. The Minister confirmed yesterday that both the first and the second wave were co-induced by Dutch citizens who have been on holiday abroad. In other words, if we want to avoid a third wave, it is very important that the Dutch app can talk to foreign apps, if I may put it this way. At least that is true in Europe. This brings me to the second question from the primary school in Landgraaf: can the Minister say more about his commitment? What's he gonna do? How can standardisation take place in Europe as soon as possible, so that, while respecting GDPR standards, open source and privacy by design, these apps can still speak to each other? Can the Minister make a commitment on that? Mr President, I shall conclude. The fraction of the Christian Union is convinced that the CoronaMelder can contribute to breaking the contamination chains. I will also give my group a positive opinion on this bill. It is difficult to estimate exactly how big that contribution is, but we look forward to a quick and successful introduction of the app. This morning there was a headline in the Algemeen Dagblad that said: we are not afraid enough of broken lungs. I think this headline makes it clear why the Christian Union wholeheartedly supports this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Verkerk. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Gerkens on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to thank the Minister for his comprehensive reply. What's in the end today isn't the app; it's the law. That makes it a little difficult for us, because that app really has a number of bottlenecks that need to be solved. At the same time, time is running out. The number of infections is increasing and the app can play a good role in reducing the virus. Then it helps to take the concerns we have seriously. I therefore welcome the Minister's commitment to put pressure on Google and Apple, together with his colleagues in the European context, to open-source Google and Apple Exposure Notification. We really need to know what that API is doing. The Minister indicated that the API only has the codes, but that's not true. The API is inextricably connected to the operating system and thus knows everything about your phone and, as others rightly say, Google and Apple know everything about its user. We don't know what they're collecting. We can't see that. Indeed, there is now a request from the European Commission to examine this API, but that will be particularly difficult if it is not an open source. That is why my group believes that the Minister can easily find supporters of this in Europe. My question to him is to let us know as soon as possible how he is going to deal with this. The sooner it's settled, the better. The concerns that my group also has about using this protocol from Google and Apple are partly removed by law. Can we deal with it all? No, but a little. Hence my call to get the source code of this application. To the people who said that we shouldn't be so difficult because we already share all the data with Google and Apple, I say that this should never be an argument. If we did that, we would accept this development. As a government, we should take the step to turn the tide. Otherwise, we could get the whole basic registration right away and say, "Google and Apple, please." We don't. Therefore, it would be good if the app could also be used independently of the Google or Apple API. This also allows us to use phones that, for example, do not use Android or iOS operating software. Apple won't be able to do that, but with Android there are more possibilities. Thinking like that doesn't stand still. Several frameworks are now being developed and it would be good if we could connect to them, or perhaps develop an open source framework ourselves. I'll leave the details to the people in charge of the trial, but I'd like to file the next motion. The President shall: Mr Gerkens, Mr Baay-Timmerman, Mr De Boer, Mr Faber-van de Klashorst, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Nooren and Mr Van Pareren proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the deployment of a coronatracing app will benefit from a high level of confidence in the security of this app;]] [[whereas having privacy and security vulnerabilities affects that trust;]] [[noting that the current CoronaMelder uses the so-called Google Apple Exposure Notification API;]] [[noting that this requires users of the app to use Apple and Google Playstore;]] [[noting that by definition the user shares personal (meta) data with these parties;]] [[calls on the government to develop the app wherever possible by allowing other app implementations, so that users can also use the app separately from Google and Apple,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35538-J]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. Thinking shouldn't stop here. The app is new, just like the pandemic is new. It is important to give all the scope for further development. That means: keep testing and keep giving openness. That should be better than how that happened with the report of ROS. There will always be mistakes and then we will have to keep fixing them. The bug-bounty mentioned by the Minister shows the Minister's intention for further development. Many agree on the process. It is unique for the Dutch government and that is clear. It would be nice if this could be a blueprint for the entire government. We have the Digital Government Act in the First Chamber and I say to his colleagues in the Trêveszaal that there are a lot of good examples in this process. The fact that it is a reckless model is demonstrated by the developments of the last week of the ROS report. That also requires the Minister to stay on top of this. I welcome the commitment that there is no standstill in the testing of thinking. We agree that capacity should be improved as soon as possible. My colleagues across the street will keep the Minister sharp on that. I am also curious about the answers to the questions about the margin of error. I'd like to know how this works in a high school, where students don't have to keep a distance of 1.5 m. What comes up in the end isn't the app, it's the law. We are concerned about the app, but we welcome the Minister's commitment to make an effort to open-source. Since yesterday the Minister was unable to state very clearly whether he wanted to develop the app, I tabled the motion. It is important that the app is voluntary. The law allows for the roll-out of an app and legally guarantees the privacy of users. If in the second period the last questions I have asked are answered by the Minister, I will give my group a positive opinion on the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u45	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I would like to give the floor to Mr Otten, on behalf of the Otten Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. The Minister said yesterday that the app is not a panacea. That's right. It's not that. It's a prestige project. This app is actually symptomatic of this minister's approach to the corona crisis. He devises certain measures and they must then be coûte que coûte nested, whether it is useful or not. This app could have been launched a long time ago. A campaign could have been launched long ago if the entire legislative process, which is totally unnecessary, had been skipped. In Germany, the app has been introduced much earlier, without law. That's where the app's been downloaded 18 million times. In fact, this law is a consequence of the course taken months ago. Then the whole device will focus on getting this through, losing sight of the ball and the number of corona contaminations is getting out of hand. What is particularly important is that it was recalled yesterday, also by others, that it is getting the tests in order. We find the Minister's observation that the app will not lead to an additional test request very illogical. We cannot follow his reasoning. We think that the app will increase the demand for tests. As I have said, the law is superfluous as far as we are concerned. According to Mrs Bredenoord, I can't say, but we think the law is a slippery wreck, a slippery slope. That's not a misdemeanor, as she said yesterday. As I said, any government action must be effective, fair and efficient. It would have been much more effective if the app had been implemented without law. Anyway... We consider the law superfluous. If I were the minister, if I wanted to pursue an effective policy, I would very quickly replace the person who coordinates the testing for the GGDs with someone who is competent to do so. I think this makes a lot more sense than this app. As has been said, we consider the law superfluous and will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u47	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Gerbrandy, on behalf of the OSF.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister and his helpers, the officials who put so much time into this problem that we have not experienced in the Netherlands since the Second World War. I want to be brief and as concrete as possible. What is the Minister going to do to increase the test capacity so that people without complaints can also be tested? This is a concrete answer: what are you going to do? Why are we all asking that question? Six out of ten people who receive a notification are not infected and must be quarantined. You can't do that. The support is going away. I'd like an answer. The second question. In order for this app to be effective, the people with notification must be quarantined for ten days. In the reply you say: I have not yet found a way to check that; I mentioned that enforcement. Can you say clearly to us: have you found a way, a method to maintain it? The second motion of the Party for Animals calls upon you to extend that testing capacity. I asked you specifically and I expect an answer. The second motion says that the law will not be introduced until then. I am not going to support that, because we must not waste any time, but this motion is a good one, because it says: there must be more testing capacity. But we are not going to stop and I expect you, in the interests of the whole of the Netherlands, to take action to expand that capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u49	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in second term? That is not the case. Minister, will you be able to respond immediately, or shall we suspend for 20 minutes? Then I'll suspend the meeting until 10:35.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u50	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u51	Who will first take off his mouth cap for that purpose. It's just getting used to. Thank you, Mr President. A number of additional questions have been asked which I would like to address in a moment. I would like to thank your Members for the thorough examination and thank you for the many questions that have been asked. We had a lot of treatment yesterday. Actually, Mrs Gerkens said it very sharply, namely that a lot of questions have been asked about the app. When I think of it that way, I think that a large majority of your Chamber is enthusiastic about the app anyway, at least in the sense that you think that it could possibly contribute, not as a panacea, but as a tool. I think you can see it that way. But if you are not enthusiastic or not enthusiastic about the app yet, then you can still be enthusiastic about the law. Because the law actually regulates only a few things, namely the prohibition of compulsory use and thus a ban on abuse. In addition, the law explicates the basis. Mrs Faber rightly points out, I think, that this law would not have been strictly necessary prior to the introduction of the app. However, the introduction of this app is more responsible with the law. I think it is felt that way in the Lower House and that it is felt that way here in the Upper House, and that is how I see it myself. So this afternoon, you're not voting on the app, you're voting on the law. Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer a number of questions raised by several groups. That's where I'm gonna get the 60% first block. Then I answer a number of questions that affect the API and the motion of the SP that has to do with it. Then there are a number of questions about testing and then a number of questions per group; I will go through them. Finally, a number of comments. Mr. Chairman. First of all, the 60%, because that needs to be clarified. Actually, as an old schoolmaster I would have liked to have a huge chalkboard here, then I could have made a good drawing in the field test with crayons. Because you shouldn't rule out the fact that we were both right when we both seemed to say something different yesterday. The first is: if there is a notification, that in 75% of the cases is a proper notification, according to the field test. If there is no notification, 75% of the cases are rightly not notified. In both cases, there is either 25% or incorrect notification, or incorrect notification, if you assume that 1.5 meters. What was that field test like? It mimics 1,229 situations, mind you. I would say that the Netherlands has done the most thorough work of all. In 80% of these 1,229 imitated situations, people were present outside 1.5 metres and in 20% within 1.5 metres. So that's how we get the numbers. If we calculate that back to 100, then 75% of the 20 out of 100 have had proper notification, because there were 20 people out of 100 within 1.5 meters. Then people were also wrongly notified, while they were not within 1.5 meters, but that was also a much larger group, namely a group of 80. If you add it up, you get the 41%. In short, both are true. 75% of the notifications people receive are justified notifications, because within 1.5 meters. On the other hand, 75% of people are rightly denied notification. But because there was an 80/20 situation with people outside 1.5 meters and people within 1.5 meters, you get that 41%. Does this make the result less useful in existing practice? No, all investigators, all RIVM's, say all scientists who have been on the guidance committee. That does indeed mean that you are in a legitimate situation where it is likely that if you get a positive notification, you will have to share the same behavioral advice or you will be expected to follow the same behavioral advice that also applies to the people who emerge from the source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u52	Luckily, I gave statistics at university, so I can totally follow it. But then the conclusion remains the same that in 40% of the cases I think 60% of the cases stood, but well there we still have to look at people sitting at home while they were not within 1.5 meters. What's the conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u53	It depends on the proportions. Perhaps I should explain it once again on the basis of the practical setting that has taken place. In those cases where you were found to be within 1.5 meters, you received a proper notification in 75% of the cases. In those cases where you were not within 1.5 meters, you were rightly not notified in 75% of the cases. But wrongly a notification is 25% of the cases and wrongly no notification 25% of the cases within them. But in those test settings, an 80/20 distribution was made. Of course, we do not know whether this is the case in real reality. We don't know how you move into real reality. But in those test settings there in Vught, 80% of the people outside 1.5 meters and 20% within 1.5 meters were in all test settings. How this is going to work in reality is not something we can say, but I can say something else which at least underlines to me that we are very close to a proper opinion. Maybe I should do that first, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u54	It is a fact that there are more people outside of 1.5 meters than within 1.5 meters. So that group outside of 1.5 meters is larger than the group inside, will also be the case in practice. So it's just a fact. Between the 1.5 meters and the 10 meters, he can give a positive response. Walk down the street. There's a lot more people out there than in there. The number of people who receive a positive notification will be quite large; that 25% outside of 1.5 meters. Then there is the question of how to prevent a relatively large group of people from sitting at home for about 60%, because there were more people out there who were wrongly sitting at home for ten days. That is the crux of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u55	I understand that very well and therefore I have to go back to the regular source and contact research and the assumptions that lie underneath. In our protocol source and contact research as part of the LCI Directive, three groups have been distinguished: close contacts with roommates, close contacts with non-family members and other contacts. The first two groups are subject to quarantine advice, albeit in slightly varying formulations. You can say about this group: in 75% of the cases the notification that you have within that 1.5 meters is wrong. We also know that 90% has been wrong within three metres. How does the regular protocol work source and contact research? The statistical starting point is that if you are 15 minutes within 1.5 meters, you are at such risk of infection, statistically speaking, that a quarantine recommendation is justified. Does that mean that the virus can watch the clock, so you're not the scarf at 14 minutes and you're at 15? No, of course not, it's just a statistical cut-off value that's been chosen to make sure that if there's a serious find rate, you're also within that group. That's how you look at this. 75% is a proper notification and then 90% within 3 meters. You can rely on that. What is shown by the first reports in practice? 'Cause that's what we're gonna have to have; we're not all walking around in Vught. We see that the positive test rate was 10.5% by week 40. This is a percentage that is found between the percentage of roommates above 13% and the percentage of other close contacts of about 6%. In short, we see that those who receive a notification in more than 10% of the cases actually have a positive test result. This is quite similar to the groups that are also distinguished in the BCO. Does such a notification work in practice in such a way that you do not leave too many people at home wrongly? Yes, because it appears to be working out in a similar way. They're raw data, by the way, so keep me in good shape. But in this case it appears to work out in a similar way as in the analogue BCO practice as we already know it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u56	Mrs Nooren, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u57	Where the mistake of thinking is... The app says stay home. In the case of source and contact research, and I do so every day, so I recognize the words the Minister refers to. It's about what kind of action advice you give. If you've been within five feet, you have to go into preventive isolation at home. If you've been outside those five feet, we say to everyone: watch out, watch your complaints, be alert, get tested and go to the GGD. It's about how we stop the good people from getting tested and leaving the big group at home. Then the question is whether this study is being monitored. I'm very interested in that 10% and I'd rather it's 20%, because if it's positive, we'll only have the group at home that needs to be at home. Anyway, let's just say that 10% is good. It's about whether the app isn't too coarse. That's what we're discussing. How do we prevent a whole group of people from sitting at home unmotivated? Because then they say, "Yes, I stayed home for ten days, but I have no complaints; next time I won't do it." That's my fear underneath it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u58	I get it very well, and that's why we need to monitor very carefully. You are in the middle of it, but not everyone who listens to the debate is in the middle of it. That is why it is good to say very precisely how it works with the regular BCO. The regular BCO is based on a statistical assumption. In what setting can you expect with this infection that infection is likely? We see that we currently have a finding rate of over 13% in close contacts, being roommates, and about 6% in other close contacts, let alone the other contacts, because that is much lower. That is why other contacts, less than 1%, do not have quarantine advice at all, because you would leave a lot of people at home unjustly. But with the close contacts, not being roommates, that is about 6% and with the close contacts, being roommates, that is 13%. That test in Vught must, of course, work in the right direction. That's why the finding rate is so important for people who drive in that test street with a notification under their arm. What's the percentage of finding there? That's where the find rate appears to be 10.5%. And that is why it has been a good conclusion from the researchers that, on the basis of that Vught situation, that twelve hundred so many test situations, you can really say that, if you get a notification, it is in such a large part of the cases that a certain degree of probability of infection can be derived from it. What degree of probability is that? In the current setting, with the current raw data, that's about 10%. This is relatively similar to the BCO groups. In fact, that is about between the close contacts and the close contacts, being roommates. I thought it was a relatively high percentage myself, and I honestly wouldn't want it to get any higher, because that would mean we're missing too many people. I think it should be similar to category 2 of the BCO, which is close contacts, not being roommates. To be honest, I expect the percentage to fall slightly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u59	Mr Nicolaï, who is actually supposed to wear a mask when he walks through the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u60	Yes, Mr. Chairman. We are not talking about the question the Minister has just mentioned. We're talking about how reliable that app is and how it works. We cannot ignore the fact that in 59% of the cases, when it came to testing the app, people got a notification that did not go wrong within those 1.5 meters. Do I hear the Minister say that the investigation and that result are wrong? That is still not clear to me. If the result is correct, as Mrs Nooren rightly points out, in six out of ten cases a person's phone is going to give a notification, while he has not been within 1.5 metres of that infected person. I would like to make that absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u61	Then I'm just gonna try again. In the results of Vught's practice test, the people who have been within 1.5 metres for 15 minutes are entitled to receive a notification, which is comparable to the BCO group category 2 "75%" and 25% are wrongly not to notify. Of the other group, which has wronged outside that 1.5 meters, 75% are rightly not notified and 25% are wrongly notified. But what the hell was the testing set in Vught? 20% of the people there have wronged within 1.5 meters and 80% of the people outside 1.5 meters. So those 25% of the people who have been outside the 1.5 meter range, you look at 80% of the total population that has participated in that test phase. That's why they're much larger numbers. So 75% of the 20% are lower numbers. So you get to the sum that about 41% of the people in that setting have rightly had a notification. Where does the comparison with the regular practice limp go? In normal practice, the 20% and the 80% do not have to be right at all and in this way not to be right. The proof of the pudding is ultimately just the practice. That practice shows, therefore, that, in the same way, I refer to Mrs Nooren...................................................................................................................................................................................... That regular percentage is in close contacts, the roommates, 13%. This regular percentage is 6% for the other close contacts. This is over 10%. In short, you can conclude that that is a similar group that would normally, if you would remember them in a regular source and contact research, receive the same advice. And rightly so, because the finding rate is so high that if you want to break that chain of infection, you have to put people on the couch at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u62	It is always about the 25%, but the 25% and the 75% say something about whether the test works at all is reliable. I'm talking about the investigation showing that in six out of ten cases someone who's been outside that 1.5 meter gets the notification. That's what it says here, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u63	No, it doesn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u64	"The person had a notification, but was not in practice close enough to have run the risk of infection in accordance with the RIVM guidelines." Let me quote the results of the investigation. That's what it turns out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u65	No, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u66	Then it stops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u67	Mrs. Nooren has done statistics. They will explain it to you in detail in the break. I'm a simple schoolmaster, so I need a chalkboard to explain this properly. I'm gonna try old school one more time without a chalkboard. We actually managed to draw two conclusions from that test phase in Vught. If you are within 1.5 meters, in 75% of the cases you are rightly notified that you have been within 1.5 meters. In 25% of the cases you are wrongly not notified. Then the people who were outside the five-foot radius. They are rightly not notified in 75% of cases and in 25% of cases they are wrongly notified. But what makes this Vught situation different from the ordinary human world? It has been said: we put 20% of people within 1.5 meters and 80% of people outside 1.5 meters. Those two times 75-25 therefore relate to another basis of the number of people. If you add the 25% of the people who have wrongly received a notification, but have wrongly gone beyond 1.5 meters, in absolute numbers, to the number of people who have rightly received a notification, then you will indeed get to the sum of "do it" that 41% of the people have rightly had a notification. Is that bad? Well, that would be bad if in the ordinary human world that 80/20 ratio would always play like that. Fortunately, we know that is not the case. So what's the proof of the pudding? That's the positive check mark you're going to bring out. This should be comparable to the statistical assumptions, which are also below the BCO. Those assumptions are that you'll find somewhere between 10% and 15% where the close contacts are roommates, and that you'll find somewhere between 5 and 10% with other close contacts. That seems to be the reality in this case. Indeed, 10% of the people who have had a notification have actually been infected positively. So there's as much reason to want to put people who get a notification at home as to want to put people who come forward from source and contact research at home, right now. That is evident from the raw data, but of course we will continue to follow it. You don't want a lot of people sitting on the couch wrongly, but for the time being the percentages are just comparable to the regular BCOs. So it turns out to be working like hell and all the scientists come to the same conclusion with regard to the experimental set-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u68	Mr Nicolaï, the third and last on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u69	The Minister relies on investigations I don't know. I'll just have to assume that it's all true, where that 90% comes from. I base myself on the research into the reliability, from which I have quoted several times. No matter how you get used to it or turn it around, I can only read that it is said that in 59% of the cases someone gets falsely a report, while he has not wronged within that 1.5 meter. It's all beautiful with those 20 and 80 and so on, but that's the thing. That is what I am holding on to, and I think we should end the discussion here. I am getting a waterfall of all kinds of other data all the time, but I am simply basing myself on the investigations that the Minister himself has carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u70	Then I suggest that the Minister continue his speech on the following subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u71	The same page in that study states that the reliability of the app is around 70% to 75%. It's in the same investigation. I'll save you the rest of the numbers this time. It's all looking back. With a good glass of red wine it is also better to digest, I think. I'll save you the rest of the numbers, but the reliability is just 70% to 75%. This also turns out to be quite similar in practice to what you see in the regular BCO groups. I'm not doing this on my own authority. We ask RIVM and the guidance group, in which there is a whole bunch of scientists. They all come to the same conclusion: the reliability is sufficient. They also come to the conclusion in all other countries that the reliability is sufficient to use them for the purpose for which they are intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u72	This is a point we are about to close. Mr. Van Pareren, do you have another question on another subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u73	Yeah, I'd like to close this up, too. Statistics is one of my hobbies and occurred in my studies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u74	Then you must have just enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u75	Yes, I really enjoyed it and I like that Mrs. Nooren has it too. I just think there's no point in starting that over again. I am now learning that we still have to work with an expert meeting, including in such important situations. They didn't choose that. It was hurry, hurry, hurry. I think we could have avoided this kind of discussion here with such an expert meeting and got much more clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u76	Thank you. Then I suggest that the Minister continue his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u77	The research has, of course, been well followed by an advisory committee, with all kinds of expertise. It was then also submitted to the RIVM, where the expertise is in the field of source and contact research. The background to the statistics is also important, in which part of the cases the finding rate is such that it is also real to give the action advice that goes with it. I also believe that you have had a technical briefing. I hope you've asked these kinds of complicated questions to your heart's content. In any case, I would find it unfair if you had left me the most complicated questions. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the questions about the API, because that stuck a little bit yesterday. That was a question from Mrs Faber. Are those contact details stored in the API and can they then be used for enforcement? The answer is that we cannot and cannot do that. It is not allowed because of the target binding in the GDPR and in the bill. The AP will see to that. This also applies explicitly to investigation services. In addition, we would violate Apple and Google's signed license if data were used for a different purpose than COVID-19 combat. It is not possible, however. In the API, random contact codes are stored locally on the phone. They're not leaving the phone. So those random contact codes aren't contact details, like you have in your phone. They are random codes that say nothing about who you were in the vicinity and how many people these different codes are. The API secures these codes and by splitting the API and the app there is also an additional layer of protection. That's the "last trust-principle": everyone protects everyone. No one can access it without hacking into it very complicatedly: the GGD doesn't, I don't, nor regulators. But even if you did, you wouldn't have anything. Because you have codes and you can't do anything with them. Mrs Gerkens then said a number of things about using the API and whether you can do it without Google and Apple. She also tabled a motion on it. It calls on the government, wherever possible, to develop the app by allowing other implementations of the app, so that users can use the app separately from Google and Apple. The market exploration already showed that this is difficult for iPhones, because the operating system is protected against any other app. An app that uses bluetooth should always run in the foreground and that makes it technically impossible to have an app like the CoronaMelder on an iPhone without API. For Google, there is probably a similar limitation. We really should find out if that's feasible. If it's realistic, it's really something you should want. So, with all the limitations I have mentioned, I would like to leave this motion to the House. That's it about the API, Chairman. There's a lot to ask about testing. I believe that a single motion has also been tabled. First of all, the many questions about testing. I believe that yesterday I explained in detail how we see the test policy in front of us, what we see from promising developments, such as the rapid test, and how we deal with it. In any case, let us be clear: we are doing the best we can to increase the test capacity, because we want it to be simply maximum. This applies not only to regular PCR tests, as they always have a limitation in the lead time. The maximum target standard is really two times 24. Much faster it probably won't work with the PCR test, but in combination with quick tests you could get to very different lead times. That's why I'm pulling these quick tests so hard. We're validating them right now, and I hope to use this month for the validation of what we've got in the picture. We can then proceed to roll out the use of quick tests. That won't be maxed out in one go. Not because of the purchase, because purchase is not a restriction at all, but because of the implementation in the regular working process of the GGD. That's gonna take most of the time. Moreover, the results of these rapid tests are fast, but the reality of the action is still quite considerable in most rapid tests, including those antigen tests. That it becomes very easy to test on every corner of the street, I honestly see less for me, because it takes an action, where you really have to understand what you're reading on the screen. It's not entirely comparable to a pregnancy test, I'm just saying. It's a little more complicated than that for now. The breath test is a little bit later in time... requires a very simple action. You should be able to do this in many places, if it proves sufficiently reliable in the setting for which the application applies. We're all validating that right now. As soon as we can do anything, we will ensure that with rapid testing we scale the capacity much further. Then I'll get to the motion. It actually says: wait a while with the app, because first the test capacity has to be in order. A sufficient test capacity shall be available. The construction of further test capacity is now going at a rapid pace. I explained that yesterday. To put that app in the fridge any longer, I honestly don't feel anything like that. I explained that the app is also of added value in the current setting. This is also evident from the practice in the five regions where we are currently trying it out. I sincerely hope that we can proceed as soon as possible. The second motion that has been tabled, I would really like to advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u78	That's the motion under letter I.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u79	Under letter I, indeed. That's it for testing, Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the other questions. I'll answer them in order of entry and start with the questions of Forum. One question was about the people who can't work with the app. Apple and Google have made their technology available for Android-6 and above iOS 13.5. This has to do with the technological framework conditions and therefore with the protection of privacy. As a result, the CoronaMelder works on phones that are up to five years old. This is estimated to be 94% of smartphones in the Netherlands. Apple has indicated that supporting older versions than iOS 13.5 or older devices than the iPhone 6S would require a huge effort. Google has reported that Android-5 can be partially supported. Countries will then have to test separately for all devices on which Android-5 is available, whether the app can be used, and must make it possible for each device to do so. In short, the adoption rate of smartphones in the Netherlands is extremely high. If you look at the number of people who have a relatively modern smartphone, no more than five years old, you can see that this is actually very high. So if we want to use this technique, in a reliable way, which is well supported by Apple and Google, then I don't think it's such crazy numbers at all to work with. On that basis, you need to be able to achieve a decent degree of adoption. Then the ic-bed capacity. Moving on to 3,000. I explained that yesterday. The experience during the first wave is that the care is ultimately so fantastic, that it is always ready to achieve what needs to be achieved. But I think we can be expected to break that wave much sooner than we get anywhere near it. If you already see that the regular care needs to be scaled down, then, if the number of ic-recordings continues to grow, regular care will not remain without collateral damage. The world doesn't end with knee surgery that needs to be postponed. But when it comes to surgery, for example, in cardiovascular diseases, delay is so damaging that it can actually take years to live. So we need to break that wave much earlier, so that we do not have to scale up the ic's again. I explained yesterday what the ic's are capable of anyway, but let's hope we never get anywhere near 3.000. That is something we must avoid at the expense of everything. The PVV has asked why general practitioners are not informed by the GGD if a patient is infected after a notification. After all, medical specialists are allowed to report to general practitioners as well. The Wpg arranges that a GP must report to the GPD. That has to do with the A-diseases. Thus the GGD can keep an eye on the number of infections. That's very important. Thus there is a legal obligation for the general practitioner to break his medical professional secrecy. But the G.D.D. doctor is subject to medical confidentiality. On the contrary, the Wpg does not regulate the grounds for breach of that medical professional secrecy by providing data to the general practitioner. In short, information may only go from the GP to the GP, but not from the GP to the GP. That is what the legislator meant. That is without prejudice to the fact that, if you are tested positive, you can just make a call to your GP, then he knows it too. It's not that complicated. But it's not automatism from the GGD towards the GP. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u80	Then I'm left with the next question. Why shouldn't the GGD doctor just ask the patient if he's okay with the GGD informing the GGD? That's what happens when you're at the hospital for treatment. Then that question will be asked. You can just ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u81	That's a consent. Then it would be possible indeed. But then it's even more practical to tell the patient to call your GP. It's much simpler, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u82	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u83	Then D66's question about the framework, by analogy with Wilson and Jungner. You thought about that last night. That has been a useful thought exercise. I think I'll just go along with your request. I would like to make a few comments. I do not think it is so easy to come up with a single single directive, a single framework, given the huge diversity of apps. Tracking apps are of course not there, so this is actually the first and only one that is currently being used. You have a lot of reporting apps, where you have to keep track of your complaints and report them yourself. They often also offer opportunities to report to the GGD or to a hospital. For example, the Luscii app is a very nice app. There is also a second app in development by the GGD, to do part of the source and contact research itself. It's beautiful. Actually, you're asking for one framework, one framework, where you can make the trade-off: in such cases, an app always makes sense. And then you probably want to do it in such a way that it doesn't hinder innovation and discovering new things. The Health Council is an extraordinary intellectual society, so I'm just going to put this question to you. However, I have already told you that it does not seem easy for me to come to a single framework. But I'd be happy to work on your assignment to submit it to the Health Council. And I will convey your nocturnal thinking to that, because otherwise it has all been for nothing. Of course, you shouldn't want to. That would be a shame. Mrs Nooren asks what we can do to convince people that it really has to work at home. That was actually a bit of the discussion we had yesterday and the discussion Mr Nicolaï had again today. He himself used the words that we should explain advice in such a way that people are supposed to do so. Apart from the question of whether people can follow that sentence construction well, I think that is exactly the sense value behind it. An advice sounds like: "tip, you could do it, but see if you want to do it yourself." It can't be like that, and I don't think we should talk about advice like that. That also always makes me a little hesitant to go along with people who mainly explain how complicated it is to follow those advices. Yeah, I'm sure you do, but we need to get that nasty virus underneath. So teeth together, we're just gonna stick to it. I do think we can get better at supporting people who need to be quarantined. I think that is also the answer to Mrs Nooren's question, namely how we can help with that. For example, they are employers who do not get cranky or difficult about it, but who say: yes, of course, if you are possibly infected, then that is just another BCO finding rate too much to come to work. Before you know it, all your employees are infected, so it's just unwise to deal with that lou lonely. So you can expect a responsibility from employers, I guess. It is also up to us to standardize that, so to also say that we think that if you report sick because you have been advised by the GGD to stay at home, you should simply give a large job for that as an employer. By the way, you might want to mention that: then make sure you stick to that 1.5 meter, otherwise I have that every few weeks with you, I prefer not to. So we should also want to set that social standard with each other. What we must also do is that that has also been a motion in the House of Representatives is that we need to get a lot better in supporting people who are going into quarantine. A quarantine guide has been developed, which is now being issued to people who receive quarantine advice and are supposed to stay at home. That's a support guide that contains all kinds of phone numbers, volunteers from the Red Cross, in which volunteer structures in a municipality are also found to make sure that there is someone who can do the shopping for you, someone who can take the kids to school if you can't arrange grandma or grandpa yourself, etc. In short, I think we can do a lot more in supporting people to go into quarantine. Especially in this winter season, it will happen again and again, we will absolutely have to do it better than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u84	Thank you for the explanation and the additional measures. This means other parties than the GGD, because the GGD cannot do this on its own. So I'm gonna ask the Minister who's gonna join us. Who's gonna stand next to that G.D.D.? 'Cause most of all, he says you have to stay home. A specific question, which I do not know the answer to myself. If such an employee encounters that the employer says "come and work" I do not know this case from my own organization "Where can these people go?" Because they're afraid they're gonna lose their jobs, that's what's underneath. So where can people who want to stay at home but think "I lost my job"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u85	I would think: what do you normally do if you think that your employer is acting contrary to normal employment relationships, contrary to good employership? Just thinking out loud, it would be in this case that your employer wrongly puts you in the situation that you might be making the work situation more unsafe. Because you may be infected, that's why the GD says to you: stay home. Then your employer says: yes, but you have to come anyway. So that puts your colleagues in danger. So I would think that in the end it is also reasonable to argue that it is at least contrary to good employership and contrary to normal industrial relations as laid down in the Arbowet. Or to what extent, in what situation, I wouldn't know. But in this case, I'd call my union if I was an employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u86	So that's what it's about, because I'd say the Labour Inspectorate. Just, if I'm gonna call that labor inspection, it's my call, and I'm definitely gonna lose that job. But perhaps the Minister would like to come back to that in writing. This really isn't a problem for me but it's something that's playing pretty broad at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u87	Absolutely. This could play. Let me come back to this, or let me ask Mr Koolmees if he will come back to this. Because he has been more involved in this, also in the direction of employers and employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u88	I hear a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u89	Yes, I will return to this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u90	This is a commitment to Mrs Nooren and earlier there was a commitment to Mrs Bredenoord, I say for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u91	It's raining promises here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u92	I asked a question yesterday in discussion with Mr Verkerk. I can imagine that it would be helpful if the employer were to be reimbursed for the costs of the employee who is staying at home. If we are going to use Mr Koolmees, I would also like to ask a question about that. The second is that we keep forgetting something. I'm not going back on those six out of ten, but let's assume one out of four, the 75%. It may also be that the employer says: there is not 100% certainty that you are infected or that there is a risk of infection, and I want to cooperate only with 100% certainty. But if it's one in four... Maybe you're in there. In my view, it could also be that six out of ten is wrong, but now I'm leaving that for what it is. So if it's 100% certain, I can imagine. Thirdly, once again: if there can be a test, then of course that is what can happen. We've been talking about that a long time. Those were my questions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u93	First, on that second question. You are stuck with those percentages, but I would like to stress once again that the directive on source and contact research is simply an international directive, of the WHO, ECDC, RIVM. The directive is, moreover, even stricter in the Netherlands on one point, namely where close contacts with roommates are concerned. We are not talking about quarantine, we are talking about isolation. That directive is simply based on all international standards and assumes the chance that you actually, because you have been in contact with someone who has been proven to be infected, have also been infected. That's what it's about. On the basis of this statistical opportunity, a proper advice is given to enter quarantine. It is really not up to an individual employer to discuss with the employee whether these international directives are actually correct. No way! We really shouldn't do that. I also think that we should be careful to question this all the time. These are professional guidelines that really work with the whole world, established by the WHO, adopted by ECDC, adopted by our RIVM, on the basis of all the expertise that exists in al gremia. It is really not for an individual employer to discuss this. No way. So the advice is not "you could do that, unless you come to different statistical views yourself." No, the advice is what you're supposed to do because the GD says it to you. And why? Because we need to get that virus underneath. I think we should be very strict about that. Secondly, you are asking whether we could not tempt employers to deal more easily with this by compensating them for their costs. You could compare with, for example, maternity leave, which also covers part of the employer's costs. The point here is that it's very difficult to come up with an arrangement. I have been working on this and so has Koolmees, but so far we have not been able to come up with an adequate regulation, a specific one, which does justice to the situation, without being extremely sensitive to fraud. UWV can't just have that, on top of all the arrangements that UWV already has to implement. So you would like to design a scheme in which, if that person receives such advice from the GGD, you would charge the salary or part of the salary payment to a certain scheme after your employee has received that advice. This leads to an unexecutable bureaucratic regime that we have not been able to come up with. However, we have asked VNO-NCW and SMEs Netherlands to continue to think with us how we could do something about this, because we are quite willing to do so. There is no lack of willingness to do so, but it is true that we have not yet been able to come up with anything adequate in the field of technology. Then there is the commitment I made to Mrs Nooren. I remember that next week we are going to write another progress letter. That will be October 13th, traditionally in the night. I know that we are going to go into more detail in that progress letter about what we are all doing to support people who are going to be quarantined. A note to ourselves is that we send that progress letter to the First Chamber, so that you are right with what we all do with the support. Then I will come back to this point: what we can possibly do in the direction of employers, what options we have all explored, what has so far proved impossible and what we are all still thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u94	Somehow it all goes in the abstraction. I imagine that employer says to that employee "you've had a notification, but hadn't you taken the train to Hengelo last week and could it be that you might have had your phone in that bag? That bag was there and there was someone who might have been infected." That's the kind of question the employee gets. So how are we gonna convince that employee to say, no, that's not relevant? No matter how you turn it, the operation of the app is not 100% reliable. It may well be that the employee in his bag had a phone and that it gave him that notification. Is he supposed to hang in there and say, "I'm not coming?" Those are very complicated questions. I am sorry that so little thought has been given to this. I would like to know, if the question is asked by the employee and the minister is the employer, what would he say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u95	The first thing I would like to say is: it is a very Dutch way, a very Dutch way... You or anyone else asked yesterday why they're doing so much better in Germany. Because in Germany they just think: how beautiful the rules are, we're going to follow them. What we do in the Netherlands is that we question endless rules and debate them again. If the virus had been debated under it, we would have had virtually no contamination in the Netherlands. But that's not how it works. The virus isn't impressed by that. It is also not impressed by all kinds of attempts to talk yourself out under rules. We can just best follow those rules that follow the whole world, really the whole world, on the basis of all the expert advice that led to the directive that if you have been within 15 minutes of 1.5 metres, you should just stay home. If you've been closer to someone or further away from someone who's been infected, you should at least seriously consider yourself. Those are just the basic rules. In addition, you should stay at home if you have any complaints, keep a distance of 1.5 meters, wash your hands and put on a mouth cap in public buildings. Just do it. It's not that hard: just do it. If we start the debate immediately with every practical situation, with our employee, with our employer, with ourselves, we will never get that virus underneath. That might be a choice, but that wouldn't be my choice. I think we'll help ourselves if we're just clear. These are the rules, and you have to follow them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u96	Mr. Nicolaï. A third and final question on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u97	I fully agree with the Minister, but that is not the question. Of course you have to follow that. The question is: how reliable is the app? That's what the question is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u98	It's reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u99	And no matter how you turn it, the minister says that that app is not reliable in 25% of the cases anyway. In my view, he is not reliable in other cases either. That question needs to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u100	Mr. Nicolaï, what's your additional question? Because now we're going to go back to the percentages and we agreed we wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u101	I asked: what would the Minister say as an employer? The Minister says as an employer: you should simply follow the guidelines given worldwide. I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u102	What's your last question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u103	My question was: what would be the answer to the question whether it is a proper report? If you get that question from the employee and the employee says, "Yes, indeed, it may be that I just... I went to the movies yesterday, and then I put my coat next to me, and someone was sitting about five feet away, and it could have been him."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u104	Your question is clear. This was your third question on this point, and so was the last one. I would ask the Minister to reply briefly, because there is a margin of uncertainty which has been shared several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u105	I won't repeat that. I will repeat that the app has been found reliable by everything and everyone who has looked at it, also in relation to the regular guidelines for source and contact research. Are you absolutely sure you've always been within 15 minutes of that five-foot radius? No, you're not quite sure. You don't know that for regular source and contact research. Does that affect the behavioral advice you have to follow? No, that doesn't change anything. Is it wise to debate it situationally over and over again whether you actually think it is a proper advice from the GGD? No, that's not wise to do. I think we could be a little more accommodating with regard to the directives in force. A little less debate, a little more docile, that would really help to get that virus underneath, I think. Do guidelines or apps determine that you have to turn off your common sense? No, you don't. Because you never have to do that in life. Then there's the Nicolaï motion that says: wouldn't you like to put on the site CoronaMelder.nl, or the app, the whole communication around it, everything you've always wanted to know, everything your heart desires in terms of information about that app, all the researches and so on, all of that, all of it? Well, let me make something of a selection in it, but I'm quite willing to put more information there. A number of others have also asked to make the information even more complete on CoronaMelder.nl. I actually think it's a good idea that that really is the place for everything you've always wanted to know about the app. If I may explain your motion in this way, I'm going to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. That's motion H, the first motion of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u106	I would like to ask the Minister about the five points I have mentioned. Is there a point in that that's not true? If those points are correct, what would be the problem of sharing those points, as they have been formulated there, either in the CoronaMelder itself or in a direct reference to the website? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u107	I would like to refer to the first block, the statistical dispute that we had this morning and last night. If you would just say that the field test shows that 59% of all notifications issued are unjustified and you forget to mention context, as you have done a number of times, that an 80-20 situation has been used, with 80% of people outside of 1.5 meters, then you may come to a lot of big questions. So I'm not just gonna put this on any site without context, because it's just inadequate. You must therefore ensure that the information is as complete as possible, but also as adequate and, preferably, somewhat understandable as possible. So I'm gonna do better than this motion. You ask: could there be one place where everything will stand, everything your heart desires in terms of information needs around that CoronaMelder? Well, I'm heartfelt for that. If that's how I understand your motion, that's fine with me. If you say that I need to copy-paste your motion on the site, I say: no, I'm not going to, because that only creates confusion and that doesn't create clarity. That's no use to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u108	Mr. Nicolaï? No, you don't want to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u109	Someone says: that is a promise. Well, more like a Roman explanation of this motion. That's the way I'd like to put it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u110	Mr. Nicolaï wants to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u111	I thought you would say that a commitment is being made here, but perhaps I should say so myself. I hear that the Minister is at least committed to providing more information than is currently the case. We have noted here in the Chamber other members have also done so... that if you look at www.coronamelder.nl, you will not find that information at all. I would add that he did not say that the first and second points in my motion are correct. He simply said: I do not need to mention what is written without the context. I would say: then you also mention the context. But no matter how you turn or turn, that in that field test it has been found that in 59% of the cases people have received a notification when they were not within 1.5 meters, is simply a factual observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u112	Now we go back to the previous point. I did not speak of a commitment, because that would make your motion superfluous. I didn't hear a promise either. I asked the Minister to explain your motion in a certain way. You may wish to respond to this with "yes" or "no" because that affects the opinion of the Minister to the Chamber on the examination of the motion. Would you like to respond to that? You say you don't want to. The answer will therefore remain unclear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u113	I'm gonna make it a little easier on the minister. I've asked about the same questions. If the Minister promises to use the CoronaMelder website to put the frequently asked questions, including Mr Nicolaï's, into context, then I think the motion is superfluous. But it is up to Mr Nicolaï to decide whether to submit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u114	No. For the Acts, the motion has already been tabled. It may still be apprehended or withdrawn, but it has already been filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u115	You're right. Then the Labour Party finds the motion superfluous. I'll put it nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u116	I can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u117	Let me do it this way. Of course I am willing to set up CoronaMelder.nl as a central information point and to make it as complete as possible. That's what it's meant to be. In any case, that is the commitment to the Chamber. In that context I also read this motion and I say: well, if I am going to make that website more complete and better, and so on, I would like to take these elements with me. I am going to explain it better than in this motion, otherwise it will only lead to misunderstandings and not clarity. If this motion is adopted, I am going to explain it like the undertaking to Mrs Nooren. If the motion is not adopted, I am going to accept the undertaking given to Mrs Nooren. In this way, I have rather not made it very necessary for this motion to be adopted in order to do the right thing, I think. That's how you get together on a Tuesday morning, Mr. Chairman. It's actually very nice what's happening here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u118	I suggest we move on now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u119	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS asks: how is the information on what to do after a notification arranged and after a new notification should one again be quarantined for ten days? Yeah, actually, that's similar to the regular source and contact research. So if you come out of the source and contact research, or if you come out of the app notified, the quarantine advice will apply from that moment on. You also asked why it was ten days. It was 14 at first, wasn't it? Why do you have to quarantine for ten days now and observe the situation after that? That is from the knowledge that 99% of the infections leading to an incubated new infection occur within the first ten days after the last contact with the infected person. The majority of it is around four, five, six or seven. After ten days, you've had 99% of the contacts that led to an infection. The remaining 1% is in the next four days. That is why RIVM, also to make it more bearable, says: shortens the regular quarantine period from fourteen to ten days. That decision was made a while ago. Also internationally you actually see everyone moving in the direction of ten days. Some countries are even more exciting. They even say seven days or eight days. You do run the risk of missing a larger proportion of the infections and so you just let go of them. So you always have to make a bit of a trade-off. Here's the trade-off on ten days. On the other days you will keep an eye on yourself, because if you still get complaints, then make sure you get tested and stay home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u120	This raised the next question, just an informative question. If you get a notification of the app, I don't think you get any information about the time and location of the contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u121	You don't get any information about the place and about the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u122	So you're getting information about the day? So you know how many days it's been since the contact. So it hasn't been said that you're going to be quarantined for another ten days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u123	No, that's true from the moment of the last contact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u124	So the days start counting from the moment of the last contact. In practice, therefore, it will often be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u125	Yeah, then it'll be three, four or five days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u126	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u127	That was also necessary, of course, in order to test it without any complaints, because that is precisely where it is going to be on which day. That is the day on which the viral load is high enough to filter out the positive cases. That was day seven. In the pilot phase, the test had to take place on day seven after the moment of contact. It is not so much the moment of contact, but the day of contact. That seems to be well-balanced, although there are also differences internationally. Then I come to another 50PLUS question. Can someone get a notification, be tested negative and then turn out to be positive and also be contagious? Yeah, of course you can. That's the point. The PCR test is highly sensitive and highly specific. Those are the two reliability parameters. Sensitivity; if there is a virus, does that test notice? The specificity; is he ever wrong, that he actually caught another virus? At both points, the PCR test is basically very good and very reliable. However, it may also happen there that you do not have quite the right test result. Where is this most often the case now? That is when testing without complaints, because you are often too early there. The viral load is still too low to be filtered out by the test. You may be late, but more often the problem is that you're early. So that could mean you're walking out the door with a negative test result, excited and excited, because luckily you have nothing. You go back into the world joyfully, but you do turn out to be infected and with that you also at some point run the chance to become contagious yourself. That's a risk. When using more all kinds of quick tests you should know very well what conclusion you may draw to a negative result. In particular, on negative results, the test shall be sufficiently accurate. That is why we are not going to use the rapid tests very quickly everywhere, but we are going to validate them very well first. We're actually putting them next to that PCR test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u128	Shouldn't it be the directive that, for example, you get tested again three or four days after the first test?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u129	Yeah, you can, but you're gonna put a lot of strain on the system. That's why we say get tested if you have any complaints, because we know that PCR test is insanely reliable if you have any complaints. It is much more reliable if you have complaints than if you don't have complaints, because if you don't have complaints, it depends on whether the level of viral load is sufficiently constructed. In the quick tests, we say something else. In particular, we are looking for tests that can indicate very adequately that someone is negative. If you had it, you could have people with a positive test retested with the PCR test. The negatives would filter you out first. In particular, we want to use the antigen tests, but they must be reliable enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u130	If I understand correctly, in about a month you'll be expecting the results on the reliability of those rapid tests. Then it might be useful to use the rapid tests more often and also to do repeat tests when someone gets a negative result.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u131	It could be. Again, this validation is intended to actually test the ideal setting. I have some thoughts about that now, but keep me in mind, because those images about the setting in which you can use the tests are really changing. My picture of that is that you use an antigen test or another quick test as a portal for testing at the GDD. Such a PCR test is much more labour-intensive, takes much longer and is incredibly expensive. We're spending an incredible amount of money on tests right now. You must assume about €65 each. That's the cost now. So with the numbers of maybe against the 100,000 we put away a day, it's going to be very large amounts. That's all right, because it's always cheaper than a lockdown. I'd like to add that. So the business case is always positive. But still, if you could lighten the system, or if you could speed up the process and make it cheaper, that would of course have added value. I think, frankly, we should get to a quick test for a number of target groups before getting a PCR test. I'd like that. Let's say that breath test is gonna work really well. That test works in such a way that the negative results are always well filtered out. Then you can drive to the GGD-teststraat and first take the breath test when entering the test street. It'll give you a rash soon. If you're positive, you're going straight into the test street. When you're negative, you go back home or to work. I thought that was gonna be great. It would mean a huge acceleration of the current testing process. It's all future music, you know, what I'm debiting out loud right now. That's why I'm always a little careful with it. But if you really ask me how I see it: now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u132	Mrs Baay, the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u133	Finally, last question. Can these rapid tests be used in nursing homes, in schools and in business, so that you are not always obliged to go to a test street? Of course, that saves a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u134	Sure, that saves a lot. Those breath tests could work that way, but the LAMP test we have now might also work in a mobile way. You'll have the results in 45 minutes. Of course, that would be fantastic. By the way, people from a nursing home do not have to go to a test street anyway, where they are always tested on the spot. There are already several mobile options, but you are absolutely right. You might also want to take the testing to the people, especially with faster variants of tests, whether it's the antigen test or one of those LAMP tests or breath tests. They could have enormous added value and greatly alleviate the current pressure from the large-scale PCR test sites where the GGD is working. Well, Mr. Chairman, let's get on with it. The CDA stresses that if you've been tested negative, that certainly doesn't mean you're not at risk. I think it's good to be very precise about that every time. By the way, if you are tested if you have any complaints, the reliability of a negative result is very high. If you are tested through the PCR test when you have no complaints yet, then the reliability of a negative test result is much lower. In the rapid tests, we're looking into that right now. So every time in every setting you have to be told very clearly what it means when you use a quick test. You see that companies sometimes say: we take care of it ourselves, when it's all so complicated at the GGD. Then I think, "Yeah, how?" Then what are you going to communicate to your employees about the reliability of the test? In what way is that medically supervised? And when there's a positive test result, who's gonna take care of the source and contact research and the quarantine advice? How does that work? So the testing isn't that easy. You often see that happen a little looser in other countries. In the system as we have set it up, for example in the system that Germany has set up, it is actually awkward for everyone to test a little in the wild, because then there is a very unclear message about what to mean by a negative or a positive test result and what to do with a positive test result. This is really a focus, even when further rolling out the possibility of rapid testing. They will of course be available on the market, but then there is the question of whether it is wise to use them. Of course, health care institutions have their own knowledge of this. That'll help. But is it wise now to use these tests in the wild? I honestly don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u135	I was mainly concerned with the following. If you don't get a notification on your app detector, it doesn't guarantee that you haven't been in contact with people infected by corona. If you do get a notification, you have a certain certainty, but if you don't get it, you don't have the assurance that no message is a good message. We thought it appropriate to recommend that you explicitly mention this in the app detector, precisely to avoid creating false care. That was the thought behind the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u136	I wonder to what extent this is already the case when you install the app. When you install and activate the app, you will see all kinds of screens you need to go through. It's been a while for me, but on those screens I think it's explained very clearly that the app as such doesn't protect. We can check the communication for a while, but I think it's explained what it means if you get a notification, but also what it means if you don't get a notification. If you don't get it, it doesn't mean you're free to go and you're risking zero. That the app itself does not protect is made clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u137	I haven't been able to read it in the app detector yet, but I wasn't in a test region, so I downloaded the app into the free world. Maybe it's in the final app test...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u138	I'll check the communication, make sure it's clear enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u139	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u140	I heard a promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u141	Then the campaign. Questions have been asked, among other things, by the CDA. We have directed a very specific public campaign for the CoronaMelder, also target group, as I said to Mrs Nooren yesterday. In my view, as I said yesterday, we should not think too quickly: we have now clearly set it out in a campaign, so people will have understood what it means. You will notice, especially since we know exactly what is happening at home with 17 million virologists and what Jaap van Dissel should and should not advise, that everyone has learned a lot about it by now. The r-value of the number of opinions about what would or would not be wise to do is sky high. This also means that you need to want to be massive in public communication and actually want to get into all kinds of target groups and communities that are not usually very much oriented towards government communication, in order to convey the message in a good way. I promise. Whether the message is always well received, unfortunately I cannot promise, because it takes two to tango. GroenLinks asks Mrs De Boer whether I want to promise that if the app no longer complies with the privacy conditions, which will be disabled. Yes, if there was a huge privacy break that would make it impossible to meet your standards, then you must also draw the consequences. So that seems part of the deal to me. Then the involvement of works councils in the policy. That was a point from Mr Verkerk, but a borrowed point from yesterday's Labour Party too, or just a very exotic cooperation, of course. The promotion is not by default something that the or is involved in. At the same time, does it make sense to involve a works council or a participation council in how we deal with this in an institution? Yeah, I think so. It seems to me to be a really good way of making agreements on volunteering and on what one should and should not understand under that. I think that's all very well. So what I would really like to do is use those good examples and put them in the window when further rolling out of that app. That's how I heard Mrs. Nooren yesterday. Then there was the question of the SP Group how it works in secondary schools. Actually, it's the same as the regular BCO. So there too you come forward as a contact, and possibly even a close contact, but then in consultation with the GGD what to do. This is true with the app no different than in a regular source and contact research. What is different, of course, is that this app provides some sort of automated action advice, while in the case of a GGD advice it is always a customised advice. You don't expect students to stay at home when they're in class together, because if one of them is infected, the whole class should stay at home right away. By the way, if several children are infected, it sometimes happens that the GGD advises, but that is always a custom advice. So I think that in class situations there will also be a custom advice here, where the GGD will simply enter into the conversation itself. But we're also gonna have to see how that works out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u142	I asked that question in the context of that 56% margin of error, because you're in that high school with a lot of students who don't keep that 1.5 meter distance because they don't have to, because they're still under 18. So there's one thing I think you'll have there more often false positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u143	It could be. So let's also keep a close eye on whether that actually works out that way. At least in those classes where there is a large number of infections it is always the GGD that is at the ball itself. That also happens in the direction of schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u144	The minister was very quick to answer the questions of the Christian Union. I had also asked the question about the different apps in Europe. In what you said yesterday about the cause of the second wave, it is very important that people from abroad who have been on holiday come back here with that contamination. Can you tell me more about what you're going to do to prevent a third wave as well? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u145	That is not meant to be disrespectful, by the way, but I had a leftover set with other questions, to be classified further. There was indeed still the connection to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u146	How much longer do you think you'll need for that set?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u147	One minute per question. It'll take me ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u148	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u149	The connection to Europe. What is currently happening is that a technical solution is being developed in Europe, the European Federation Gateway Service, to which national notification apps can be connected. It is planned that a first group of countries, Germany, Italy and Ireland, which have preceded us, will join in mid-October. The Dutch connection will be possible at the earliest at the end of October, beginning of November. First of all, it seems to me that we are going to introduce ourselves, and that is what we are going to do. By the way, both that gateway and the connections of the back-end servers on it must of course comply with the highest privacy standards. A DPIA is also being created on the gateway. So we're working on it, but it's at the earliest at the end of October, early November before we get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u150	If we connect with our back server to the Federation Gateway Service of Europe, will there be a separate legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u151	A separate bill is not necessary, but a separate DPIA is needed and we are going to do so. Can the GGD call with foreign numbers? That was another 50PLUS question. The answer is yes, it can be. The SP is still asking if I can inform the First Chamber for the pressure of Google and Apple. I think you asked a little more gracefully than is now on paper here, but the answer is yes, of course I am happy to say that. We are talking to Google and Apple about as much transparency as possible. That will also require international pressure, and indeed we must do so in a European context. I will inform you of this periodically. Mr. Chairman. I think that has given me the questions that have been asked. I have two final comments to make. The first one is about trust. A number of political groups have spent time in the second term on the importance of trust in the government approach, the importance of trust in public communication and the importance of trust in speaking about applications that people can also worry about. I would very much like to underline that, because of what I see happening in society. Where in March the confidence and fear were very great and there was eagerly looked at everything that was given to guidance for how we had to operate literally and figuratively in this unprecedented crisis. At that time, there was a strong tendency to follow public policy. Of course, that's taken away. I think that's just a fact of life we have to deal with, but that doesn't mean that we have to be very careful with each other when we talk about the same measures and the intentions with which those measures are taken. I do not want to say that it is not up to the Second or the First Chamber to follow the cabinet very critically. That's what you're for, and that always makes Cabinets better. But it is good to be very careful about what the intentions of laws are. This week, for example, we are discussing the Corona Act in the House of Representatives. If one law has led to misunderstandings, to deliberate misinformation as well, then it is the corona law. The same applies to the app. This is also the subject of a deliberate dissemination of information which is simply not adequate. Much of the information that is adequate is in any case treated with some distrust, and that is not without risk. Indeed, if confidence in a government is undermined, and we all have a role to play there, it will be more difficult to control that virus. That's not without health damage. That is why I am very keen to emphasise the words given to it by various groups. Finally, I would like to thank our people who have been... VWS has actually been working non-stop in crisis situations since the outbreak of the crisis, which is very impressive and requires a lot of people to work in it. But also this project has been an incredibly complex and large project. You would say such a super-simple app that can actually be very little, which you could have developed and run in a few weeks, so to speak. But the argus eyes with which this project has been followed have made it a very complicated and very complex project, not so much technical, I think, but especially operational. How do you get something like that off the ground? How do you involve the very best people? How do you manage to overcome all the mistrust by proving, step by step, that what you do is right? That is a tremendously impressive achievement. Last night, at a quarter to four o'clock, I did not see it sent out at a quarter to four o'clock the answer for the second term, and that shows the enormous drive of the people who have been working on it. So I want to thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u152	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-06-eerstekamer-3.u153	After lunch, we vote jointly and severally on the bill. I propose, as usual, to vote next Tuesday on the motions tabled, unless the Chamber needs to vote on the motions today to complete the whole. I'm gonna see what I prefer. Today. Then today we shall vote on all the motions. There's no objection to that. Finally. Is there a need to vote on the motions before the vote on the bill or after the vote on the bill? We usually vote on the bill first and then on the motions. Is that okay with you? I note that the Chamber agrees with that. Then the three motions will be added to this afternoon's voting list. I'm suspending the meeting for lunch.
