ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	I will open the meeting on Thursday 12 November 2020. The next item is the debate on terrorism in France and freedom of expression. This debate has been requested by Mr Wilders. But first, I would like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Madam President. Western Europe has once again turned into a terrible war zone. On October 16, the French teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded for showing Muhammad cartoons in his class by an 18-year-old asylum seeker from Chechnya. Here in the Netherlands, too, two threatened teachers have now gone into hiding. On October 29, a 21-year-old Tunisian slaughtered two women and a man beastly in a church in Nice. And on 2 November it was hit again; this time in Vienna. Four random victims lost their lives in a deadly bullet shower of an ethnic Albanian. All the perpetrators, all the perpetrators were Muslims. Usually the atrocities of these Islamic terrorists were accompanied by the screaming of "Allahoe akbar," Allah is great. That's often the last thing the victims of all that Muslim violence hear before they die. Mr. Chairman. We've known for years who declared war on us. That is Islam, an ideology that despises us, wants to fight us, wants to be the boss of us and wants to take away our freedom. And I've been warning you about that for almost 20 years. I ask the cabinet today for the thousandth time when it will fight back. How many deaths, how many innocent victims, how many Bataclans, how many Charlie Hebdos, how many attacks in Utrecht trams, how many beheadings and deadly stabbings have to be done before you finally make your move, before the quarter falls to you that this terrible Islam does not belong to the Netherlands? Mr. Chairman. Islam is the poison of our society. This became painfully clear immediately after the horrific decapitation of Samuel Paty. More than 120,000 Dutch Muslims signed a petition from an imam calling for the offence of insulting the prophet Muhammad. So 120,000 Dutch Muslims did not sign against terror, but against freedom of expression, against our values! It's too sick for words, but it can't really surprise anyone. Since 2015, we have known from a study by Professor Koopmans that as many as 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands consider their own Islamic rules more important than the Dutch democratically established rules. So it's not just some rotten apples that ruin it for the rest of the Muslims. I'm gonna tell the Prime Minister to stop saying that bullshit. This is a large majority of 700,000 Muslims who reject our free society. And you, Prime Minister, have, with Islam, imported a monster into our country that has put our country in great danger. Madam President. That is why I am making a number of proposals to the cabinet for the hundreds of thousands of times. One. Acknowledging that Islam is a great ideology that brings hatred and terror and therefore does not belong to the Netherlands. Two. Close our borders immediately for asylum seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries. Recite Schengen and re-introduce your own border controls. Three. Start by dismantling the institutions of Islam, such as mosques. For example, start by closing all those mosques that receive foreign funding and where, for example, Diyanet, the Turkish Ministry of Religion, is in charge and not us. Four. Lock up anyone who threatens or uses violence or evict our country and grab those hundreds of supporters and those thousands of sympathizers of the jihadist movement in the Netherlands if it has to be preventive. Five. Ask all schools, newspapers and media to show a Mohammed cartoon. Not to provoke, but to show that we never give way to threats and violence and that we are proud and proud of our freedom. Finally, I have a message to all those Muslims in the Netherlands who do not respect our freedom, our democracy and our core values and who consider the rules of the Qur'an more important than our secular laws; and there are many, 700,000, as the research by Professor Koopmans shows. My message to them is: leave, leave for an Islamic country, then you can enjoy Islamic rules; these are your rules and not ours, for this is our country and not your country, this is Holland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	Before I give the floor to Mr Azarkan, I propose that three interruptions be allowed in two and six questions at the most. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	We've heard this talk. We've been hearing this xenophobic crap from Mr Wilders for 20 years. What he wants to show is that Islam is evil and that everything that goes wrong in the Netherlands can be wiped out in one blow if you stop Islam. We know that and it has been in court twice by now, so we know his hatred and his propaganda against Islam. Two weeks ago we had a debate and then he indicated that he wanted to base himself on facts. Does Mr Wilders know how many attacks took place in Europe last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	There must have been a lot of attacks. I am talking here about Islamic attacks and the hatred and violence from Islam. Of course, there will also have been non-Islamic attacks. Unfortunately, there are also lunatics who are non-Islamic who use violence, but this is a recurring pattern. It is five years tomorrow since a terrible attack took place in Paris, in Bataclan, where a lot of people died. I read in the newspaper this morning that France has now moved on from dozens, dozens of Islamic attacks. That is what Islam does to our countries in the free West. There will be other attacks, but we will have to fight Islam to the bone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think we need to tackle extremism together, we need to tackle terrorism, but we need to look at the facts. Europol shows that there were 119 attacks in Europe last year. Of these, 21 were by jihadists. This means that 83% of the attacks took place by nationalist, separatist, left extremist or right extremist people. That means that the average terrorist is more like Mr Wilders in that respect than he is like me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	Well, I'm not a left-wing extremist. Then I can at least confirm you. I'm not a Muslim either. And again, any violence must be dealt with. I'm very much in favour of that, left or right, anyone who uses violence. The PVV was actually set up to combat violence. We see everywhere that wherever Islam enters, it leads to hatred, violence, attacks. So my conclusion is: we have to get rid of Islam in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Mr. Azarkan is coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	I also hear Mr Wilders stand for teachers. He actually wants those teachers to be free to do their job. They must not be obstructed by Muslims who ask them anything other than what Wilders thinks. He thinks these teachers should have all the freedom they need. But if teachers criticize Wilders, he wants to fire them. From Professor Frissen, he said, "You have to fire him." If Forum sets up a click line, because they want to report teachers, then Mr Wilders says: that is a very good idea. Mr. Beertema, who did the debate, said: I think it is a very good idea that we do. Why does Mr Wilders want to restrict teachers? Why would he want to fire them if they don't do what Mr. Wilders wants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	No, Mr. Azarkan doesn't get it at all again. The border lies with violence. Of course you can be critical. There are a lot of cartoons or drawings made about me that I sometimes find distasteful. Sometimes I get mad. I've reported it sometimes, too, if I thought it was a threat. But the border always lies with violence. So you can find something distasteful, you can find something. But the fact that when it comes to cartoons teachers are beheaded, that teachers in the Netherlands have to go into hiding because of threats... That piece of Islam,.... and again, that is the pure and pure Islam.... calls for violence, calls for hatred, criticism of their religion or their so-called prophet with punishment for death, that is something that we have to get rid of the Netherlands one hundred percent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	But, of course, that's just hypocritical. When teachers say something that Wilders doesn't like, he says: I don't use violence, I just take them in their sandwiches. You have to fire them, these people can't work, they can't say nasty things about me. And if it's convenient that he can hit Muslims with it, he'll be behind those teachers. That's just a double size. Extraordinary hypocrite and cowardly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	No, that's a single measure, and the border lies with violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	Mr Jetten and then Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	Let me say first of all that the attacks in Paris, Nice and Vienna are, of course, terrible and that D66 also strongly rejects that. But I would also like to quote a tweet that Mr Wilders sent after one of those attacks. Let me quote that tweet: "Hey Muslims from the Netherlands where are you? You're deafeningly quiet again. Where is the mass aversion to the beheadings in the name of Allah?" Tweet by Mr Wilders on 30 October this year. I must say, I am always so surprised that every individual Muslim should apologize for a terrorist act committed by another madman. We do not ask that of all Christians, as in Christchurch, New Zealand, someone with all kinds of glorifications of Christian attacks there shoots all kinds of people at a mosque. We do not ask that if Anders Breivik shoots all kinds of people in his own country because of his own ideology. So why does every individual Muslim have to answer for the cowardly act of terror of someone else who is not committed on behalf of that individual?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	Because it is a recurring, recurring concept, a repeated, recurring fact that Muslims are sowing death and destruction in Europe in the name of their god or their prophet. You know, "Allaho akbar, Allah is great" is what they usually call out, again over the last few weeks, after their deed. I find it really incredible that then only what my former colleague Professor Hans Jansen always called 'the professional Muslims', a few Muslims of some consultative bodies then supposedly shout something because they are against it, but that the majority is just quiet. But I'm actually there too, and that's the bad news at all. Because we know by now that 70% of Muslims actually think those religious rules are more important. And those religious rules say, "I brought some of them in the Qur'an, for example, that when you encounter unbelievers, you have to chop in their necks. They say that if you meet infidels, you have to kill them. They say you must sow terror in the heart of all the unbelievers and cut off their heads. All suras and verses in the Qur'an that call on Muslims to do so. And 70% of Muslims think those rules, those religious rules, are more important than our secular laws, which say you can't kill. Then I am not saying that 70% of Muslims in the Netherlands also use violence. But I can see why they're not protesting. And I get that even more because in three days, 120,000 Muslims didn't stand up to say after the murder of Samuel Paty: "This is not my Islam, I stand up for freedom of speech, shame that that happens." No, they signed a petition from a PvdA-imam, because that was it, an imam that was inspired by another imam, Elforkani, who in 2017, I believe, was still on the nomination committee of the Labour Party for the city council. And they then sign a petition stating that insulting the prophet Muhammad is punishable. Two days after a terrorist attack! With that, 120,000 people choose terror. They choose terror. They condone terror instead of standing up for... I can indeed be very angry that there is no defence against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	This is, of course, the hypocrisy of double standards by Mr Wilders. Muslims have to answer for a cowardly act of terror, supposedly in the name of Allah. Christians don't have to do that when someone in Christchurch cuts down all kinds of Muslims with an automatic rifle. We stand here together to defend the democratic rule of law that we know here. To defend against terror. To defend against factors that undermine the rule of law. The core of the democratic rule of law is individual freedom and that we judge people by their actions and not by their origins or beliefs. So every time there is an attack on all Muslims in the Netherlands to demand that they apologize for a terrorist act that they have not committed... What Mr Wilders is doing with this is putting away all those Muslims in the Netherlands and putting them on the same footing. It only stimulates polarisation in our society. It would please him if he didn't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	A. I'm not. B. I'll keep doing what I'm doing. C. You're not at all on the side of the secular cue what did you call it? West that stands up against violence. You're one of the co-causers of all this misery. Your party has only ensured that more people enter our country with zero obligations in terms of integration and assimilation, that the azc's in the Netherlands are filled with people, that 27,000 asylum seekers are given priority accommodation and that more mosques are built. D66 is the example of the rip-offs of the Netherlands. You are the party for Islam. Well, let's be the party for the Netherlands. Then we split it fairly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Apart from the nasty things Mr Wilders says, I also hear very nice things from him. I hear him say: how is it that terror can be condoned? He says that his party was founded and that he based his political existence on the fight against terror. He literally says: it can't be true that calls for hatred and violence in the Netherlands can still be true?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Will Mr Wilders finally fight side by side with us to ensure that this condolence, that glorification of terrorist violence, is punishable?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u21	Well, when it comes to violence, I don't rule it out. We're consistent in that. In 2014 we voted in favour of a Van Haersma Buma/Van der Staaij motion on the glorification of terrorist violence. We also voted in favour of the Heerma/Keijzer motion of 9 November 2016 on the glorification of terrorist violence. So we voted for two motions. I know that you have now tabled a legislative proposal on this matter. We will take a constructive look at that. I am not going to say whether we are in favour of this or not, but we are going to look constructively at it in the light of those previous motions. Then it must be about glorifying violence. That's where our focus is. That is also our objection to an earlier bill here. That is the key point on which we may still be able to find each other. That law's been there for a while. That's what happens to us. I don't know when you'll go through with that law, but we'll look into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u22	That is the encouraging message, because, unfortunately, until now, I had not heard a positive sound, not even in the written report on this law. But that is indeed true and I hope that I can get the PVV by my side. Maybe someone can even help support the initiative, because it's quite a job. Mr Wilders knows that, too. The point is that you should no longer openly glorify the terrorist violence in the Netherlands. If I have the PVV by my side, we already have one win today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u23	Again, we'll see. We have previously voted in favour of two motions. I refer, for example, to the wave of Hamas or ISIS flags following attacks, which we have seen before in The Hague. If we can do something about that, we will certainly not be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is a beautiful country, with values and values that I cherish. A country with different cultures, where we have freedom of religion. The first country in the world where people of the same sex could enter civil marriage. The country with respect and tolerance, freedom of expression and democracy. The attacks of the last few weeks have touched us deeply. I therefore wish all the next of kin much strength with the loss of their loved ones. In particular, I would like to address the terrible attack on the history teacher Samuel Paty. A teacher with love for his profession. As a teacher, you transfer knowledge and skills to students. You teach them respect and understanding for different opinions. But a satirical cartoon got him killed. Also at the Emmauscollege in Rotterdam hung a cartoon about Charlie Hebdo. Here too, students have taken a photo and placed it on social media. Because of the threats that followed, the teacher involved had to go into hiding. And all this after the events in France. So those students knew exactly what the consequences might be for the teacher. This has been a deliberate action. If we have freedom of religion here, we must also accept that we have freedom of expression. What is the Minister going to do to ensure the safety of teachers? And what is the Minister doing about Islamic fundamentalism in the Netherlands? We must act hard against this, otherwise we will lose our freedom. The freedom we cherish. We find it very striking, as Zihni Özdil wrote last weekend in NRC, indigestible that the Islamic girls who initiated the harassment of the teacher in Rotterdam are allowed to stay in school and do happy exams while hiding because of their actions. President Erdogan's report against our colleague Wilders is also unacceptable. We will not be silenced by a man who rules as a dictator in his own country. A Dutch parliamentarians must be able to speak without fear of the consequences. We have been elected by the people and are the voice of the people. And even though I do not always agree with him, I respect the fact that he dares to continue to give his opinion. That takes courage. It is therefore indigestible that he has had to pay for this with his freedom for many years. On a regular basis, Dutch representatives are the victims of intimidation. People's representatives also have a Turkish or Moroccan background. More and more Dutch people with a migration background are afraid to give their opinion on social media, because the control among the Turkish and Moroccan population is high. Hatred sowing and clicking behavior must be addressed as far as we are concerned. How does the Minister intend to solve this problem? It can't be that non-practicing Muslims get death threats and are turned into apostates? They too must be able to live in freedom. Unfortunately, I get disturbing signals from Dutch people with a Turkish background who receive letters from the Turkish consulate requesting that Facebook messages and tweets be removed because they would be offensive to President Erdogan. Did the Minister receive these signals? How does he think he's gonna handle this? As far as we are concerned, foreign interference is unacceptable. Finally, Mr President. We live here in freedom. We can be who we want to be. We're not forcing anyone to stay here. And if people do not accept our freedoms, with the corresponding norms and values, is there room for these people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u26	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Kuik, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u27	Mr. Chairman. We live in a free country. You're free to be who you are, do what you want, draw what comes to mind, in short, free to be yourself. Human history shows that our freedom is particularly fragile and not self-evident. That freedom is exceptional and therefore deserves our protection from hitting, from burning, from Islamic extremists who indoctrinate our children with poisonous thoughts. Mr. Chairman. The barbaric attack on Samuel Paty shows that our freedom is being compromised. Paris, Nice, Vienna: teachers throughout Europe feel threatened and the question is whether they can still teach freely. Also in the Netherlands there are teachers who feel compelled to go into hiding. It is good to talk about this collectively, but at the same time words are not enough. That is why I would like to make a number of specific proposals. Mr. Chairman. All children in the Netherlands must learn to deal with freedom. It is about freedom of expression, the freedoms enshrined in our Constitution, and our rule of law. We have to teach them that you can face other opinions and that's okay. We must support our teachers to make that possible. They must feel supported by their school boards to do the same. Whether it's conspiracy theories, extremism or cartoons that can be offensive, it should all be able to get a place in education. We must always support them in their struggle to make that discussable in the classroom. Mr. Chairman. As a legislator, as a government, we have something to do ourselves. For it cannot be that Article 23 of our Constitution now leads to children growing up in parallel societies. That is why the Labour Party will make a proposal to modernise Article 23, to change it, because that sometimes leads to it unintentionally. Mr. Chairman. Organisations that do not accept our rule of law must be banned wherever possible. Salafist organisations must be dealt with and the salafist ideas must be fought hard. Mr. Chairman. What I am also deeply concerned about is informal weekend education. It is constantly said that we cannot check for quality and that there is no room for supervision. In my opinion, that is a breeding ground for poisoning children, according to everyone who has a little insight and understanding of it. I would therefore ask the cabinet to make it possible for mayors, for the inspection and for aldermen to monitor and intervene in informal education at the appropriate time. Because there is a very parallel society that arises there that we have no control over at all. Mr. Chairman. We need a budget for municipalities and all those others to ensure that we can actually tackle radicalisation. We need to ensure that we have enough youth workers and that there is sufficient contact between school management, police and other experience experts, so that we know, even if there is nothing going on now, that, if there is a threat, we can deal with it right away. Mr. Chairman. The defence of freedom of expression must be done together, with parents, education and the government, which lays down clear rules. Because the freedom and diversity of our society are the greatest good we have in the Netherlands. We have to defend that, with everything we have in us. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u28	Could I ask the colleague of the Labour Party when she will remove her party from Muslim extremists such as Mr Elforkani? Apart from being a big fan of Mr. Al-Qaradawi, say the spiritual leader of the Muslim Brotherhood, he was the one who really said shortly after the terrible beheading in Paris of the teacher Samuel Paty that he thought it would show or insult the prophet Muhammad, by showing cartoons, because that's how he sees it, should be forbidden by law. That's why he started a petition and 120,000 people signed it. It's not a petition for freedom, it's a petition for criminalising the display of a cartoon. That man is simply a member of the candidate committee on your own website of the Labour Party of Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u29	Let me be perfectly clear. I absolutely, completely disagree with his call. Satire, cabaret and cartoons simply belong in the Netherlands. If you think you have to undermine that with a bill, you're just not doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u30	I would like to thank my colleague for her answer. It is a very fair and honest answer, which I welcome. It's not my job, but if I were you, I'd look further into why that man is saying this. I'm glad you don't agree with him. Maybe you know him personally, but maybe you don't. All you have to do is google him. He says he's a fan of Al-Qradawi. When Mr Asscher was still Minister of Social Affairs, Al-Qaradawi was his favorite imam. He thought he was pretty moderate. That's why he was invited a lot. Later, Mr Asscher returned to that point, but nevertheless Elforkani is on the nomination committee of the Labour Party. He's proud of Al-Qradawi, he's happy with him. He says openly that he is a fan of Al-Qradawi. Al-Qaradawi is someone who glorifies suicide attacks, who condone fatwas for the death penalty of homosexuals and says that Islam will once again conquer Europe. Apparently, those kind of people belong to your party. Your colleague Asscher has sometimes taken my best shot here for someone from the PVV who said something in the city council of The Hague, so I feel free to do so with you. Luckily, you're gonna distance yourself from it, but Elforkani's deep in extremism. He takes an example of imams trying to kill gays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u31	Of course, Mr Wilders can address me to that. I am not responsible for anyone who is potentially a member of my party, but that is not your question. I think we have a history in which we have looked too far away, but we have also been too naive when it comes to the Salafist movement. We still do not give a good answer to the question of how to provide quality-trained imams, which fit within the concept as we know it in the Netherlands. We still haven't dealt with it well enough, even digitally. Proposals that I have made, for example in order to achieve a digital ban on territory, were also laughed away or put away. So we have a battle to wage there with each other. We do not agree on many fronts, but anything that undermines our rule of law will never or never justify it. Whether it's my party mate, you or your Hague city councilman, which you've already referred to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u32	Finally. Thank you for the answer, but my point is not only that we need to look closely at it. This is deep in your party. Let me give you another example. A long time ago, in 2005, Mr Marcouch said that he was the mayor of Arnhem and that he took Al-Qaradawi as an example. If he didn't know what interpretation of the Qur'an was his, he looked at Al-Qradawi. Again, that's the guy who wants to kill gays and do all kinds of horrible things. My only call is: it's very deep in your party. It's no exception. In Rotterdam, your party has joined with NIDA, or has made an alliance with it. NIDA doesn't have the freshest people either. That includes extremists. And I mentioned Elforkani and Marcouch in the past. It's deep in your party. You may want to change the Netherlands, but you will also have to look at your own party to get the extremist Muslims out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u33	The strength of our party is precisely that we have a representation from all walks of life. That brings a lot of good and beautiful. You mentioned Mr Marcouch as an example. But you also have to have a constant discussion about the less beautiful edges of that same society. You need to look this up and fight each other. In the PVV there are unfortunately also statements about or flirting with pasts that we do not like and that I do not need to remind you of here. I was in a debate yesterday, in which Mr Van Dijk dropped the word 'overcrowding' again. That makes me extremely sad, too. So I look very critically at my own party and at whether we are doing the good things. I hope that Mr Wilders will do the same, because then we can work together to ensure that we can shape the future for all our children in freedom, justice, but also in a fresh Netherlands. That is why I was so angry at Minister Slob this week, for example, when it was about his statements and the freedom to be yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u34	Thank you. I think you were done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u35	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u36	I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The terrible acts of terror in Paris, Nice and Vienna touch us deeply. Unfortunately, we also see in other parts of the world that terrorism causes victims. On 2 November, 32 students were killed in a terrorist attack in Kabul. On 27 October, eight people were killed in Pakistan by a cowardly bombing of an educational centre. Unfortunately, we see that everywhere in the world people are the victims of insane lunatics committing acts of terror. We are deeply sympathetic to the next of kin, the victims and the wounded, who hopefully recover quickly. Mr. Chairman. In particular, it has struck me that in Paris, the teacher Samuel Paty, who had the aim of teaching young people and guiding them in society, was brutally murdered. I'm still full of disbelief. In conversations with teachers here in the Netherlands, I notice that they also have fear. Sometimes they're insecure. My answer to that is: let us stand behind our teachers, give them support and be grateful for the difficult task they carry out day in and day out. Drivers, parents, pupils and politicians must be side by side with teachers, because they have to perform an incredibly important and difficult task in a rapidly changing society. Mr. Chairman. I told you, unfortunately, terror attacks kill almost every day. We often talk about this in this Parliament. I notice that there is always talk of perpetrators who are Muslims. We rarely talk about attacks in which Muslims are the victims. It's like that doesn't fit in well with the world view here. The reality is that Muslims are not the biggest perpetrators, but the biggest victims of terror worldwide. Then how unjust is it that we always hear Wilders abuse everything here as propaganda for his hatred of Muslims? He appeals to all Muslims for the acts of some lunatics. Wilders was there as the chickens to throw more oil on the fire, provoke, unnecessarily hurt, suck and lure. Mr. Chairman. There are political parties who participate or look away. Those parties are crying in Wilders' xenophobic womb. I was really shocked when Gert-Jan Segers of the Christian Union spoke to a war rhetoric that was unprecedented just after the murder of Samuel Paty. Not only from the murder, but also from that text, I got chills. I find that really irresponsible. Mr. Chairman. We've known this process for 20 years. In any attempt, anywhere, Muslims are held responsible for a terrible act of another, which they do not know, and which they have nothing to do with. Be the head-of-jut for 20 years. Twenty years are systematically excluded. For 20 years, I've been hearing that your religion isn't right and evil. For 20 years, that xenophobic bastard. If Muslims say anything back, they can't. They can only say yes and amen. They shouldn't have been hit, they shouldn't have rebutted, and they should swallow everything. And little by little, their rights are restricted. Freedom of expression is often abused to carry out more and more violent attacks on Islam and for the increasingly molesting of Muslims and always insulting what they love. Mr. Chairman. I say to this and no further. I will fight here against the similitude of Muslims and Islam and against the erosion of the rights of groups of minorities. When it comes to Islam, we see here the double size and hypocrisy. There's no other way. Consider Muslims not as danger, but as part of the common fight against terror. Assume that they condemn violence and that they have the same concerns and fears as many other Dutch people. Assume that they contribute to society, want to give their children a good education, be ready for the elderly and are also afraid of corona and its consequences. Mr. Chairman. It's complicated enough as it is. We must therefore join forces with all the Dutch right now. We shouldn't let them divide us. That is what terrorists want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u38	Thank you. There are interruptions by Mrs Kuik, Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mr Segers. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u39	I have a specific question about informal education and weekend schools. I'm really worried about that. I also see in my own city, Breda, that we actually have no control over that or hardly know what is happening there. At least, we don't know that from a number of schools. I am simply curious to see what the view of DENK is about how we should deal with it and how we could get a better grip on it. In my view, we agree that any form of education must have quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u40	I think we have to deal with that the way we deal with problems in society. If things happen there that cannot stand the light of day, then they must be investigated. This also means that people should be called upon to do so. If things happen that are criminal, they should be punished for that. For me, that applies to everything; I don't care if it's a weekend school or a day school. I also understand that the inspection does not have much to say here, because that is what you want to go to. We've discussed this before in debates: how do you get a grip on that? Well, I'm just like you looking, because I want these kids to have good education and that they're going to flow into society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u41	We will be shaping the debate with the cabinet on this later, but if I have to, I intend to make some further motions on this matter. Then I would also like to hang out, because I really... A weekend school can be something beautiful, in all shapes, but also has negative aspects. We must take this information into account in order to ensure that the quality is in order and that there is no indoctrination. Unfortunately, it will take place now. I can say that word. Do you hear that, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u42	I knew you could do that. I like hanging out with you and I understand there's some kind of trimanity. The SP, the PvdA and GroenLinks often stick together. I would like to join in on this once in a while. I understand the SP is a little upset because she was kept out of the last deal that was made. If you ask me, "Would you like to join us and think with us about how we can tackle major societal issues?', I'd like to think with you. And if that leads to nice motions, yes, you have me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u43	I'm gonna take it a little bit more seriously. Weekend schools are available in all forms, but of course it is mainly Islamic education. That's a group that you're really sticking up for. That is why I say: I want to look very critically at that. I would like to make serious proposals for this. However, I note that together we find that there really is a problem and that something has to be done about it, and that is a positive thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u44	Mr. Azarkan is keeping a whole story here, as if the entire Islamic community were the victim of the fact that we are fighting against terrorism. I can tell you that following a number of conversations last week, also on television, I received a lot of messages from Islamic Dutch people who say: I'm glad you're standing up for my freedom too! Let us not pretend here that the Islamic community is one whole that is so fragile that it could not stand criticism and would not be resilient. That's one. Two is: Mr. Azarkan is making a whole speech here about freedom of speech. We've just heard from Mrs Van Brenk and I know those stories, too, that there are people from Turkish origin in the Netherlands who receive letters from Turkey saying: that's how you should behave, that's how you should vote for them and that's how you should or shouldn't express yourself on Facebook. We know this has been going on for a long time. Do we also have DENK on our side when we all distance ourselves from it and say: that is not right and Turkey has nothing to do with Dutch people who were by chance born in Turkey? Can DENK finally make a clear statement on this after all these years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u45	I am always against foreign interference here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u46	We're gonna try, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u47	I myself... Mr President, when I made a motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u48	I think you were done and I was back, so we're gonna try...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u49	No, I'd like to give you an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u50	Let her finish!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u51	We're gonna try. The question is very explicit: is Mr. Azarkan of DENK also against the Turkish influence, from Erdogan, towards Dutch people here who by chance were ever born in Turkey? That's the question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u52	Mr. Chairman. I'm against all foreign interference. I myself have sometimes tabled a motion on foreign financing, because that is also a way of influencing political parties. To my surprise, the VVD and the CDA voted against. I'm against foreign interference. I always have been.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u53	It's called "confessional color." Then I go on to the next question, because I hear Mr Azarkan here talking about freedom and freedom of expression. Is that also your colleagues here in the Chamber who have a different origin from the natives and who were born in Turkey, blackmailing the Turkish media and making sure that they are threatened here for years? And is it also denying that that ever happened and saying, "I am the victim here; I am always the victim"? That's not DENK! DENK is the one here who points people to where they were born, then expects certain behavior and if that is not shown, by name and by name in foreign media says "you should have it." It would be nice if someone from DENK who stands here in parliament and says "I stand up for freedoms," first takes a look in his own house at what his own party does, what his own party does to his colleagues. He tries to silence parliamentarians and then lectures us here on how to tackle terror. Terror you have in different forms, Mr. Azarkan!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u54	Mrs Yeşilgöz's selective indignation always stands out. She now speaks to me of behaviors of which she gives an interpretation that is not entirely mine. I've talked about it a lot here. In this respect, I refer to the Acts of the previous debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u55	Mr Azarkan is not right when he says that I am shaving everyone in one place. I've made a distinction between Muslims and Islamists in a tweet. That he deliberately translates "Islamics" as "all Muslims" is telling, I would say. He's not right about that. What he is right about is that Muslims are by far the largest group of victims of Islamic terror, of jihadist violence, and that they are indeed very often in the first line and victims. This is indeed not a battle between Muslims and non-Muslims, but between everyone who stands for freedom and anyone who does not stand for freedom. That's the fight. This battle is now also taking place in classrooms, for example in Rotterdam, where a teacher is intimidated to the point of hiding. This is about children, also with an Islamic background, about families where this kind of thought apparently goes around. My question is then: can he see the opportunity, can he see the possibility that also from the Islamic community and Islamic foremen, perhaps also with a role for DENK, parents are being addressed and that the talk is about freedom and about teacher safety? Does he see any responsibility for himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u56	This is exactly the wrong approach. This is exactly what I've been hearing for 20 years. On the one hand, he says you shouldn't address that society as a whole. That Islamic community is diverse, there is a lot of things happening, there are a lot of people in it who are just trying to raise their families every day, to do shopping, to find a job, to make it to the end of the month, especially now with corona. But look, here's what's happening. Now he says to me: can you really talk to the other Muslims? I am a Member of Parliament! I wasn't specifically chosen by a religious group. Look, you're from a religious party. I'm not that direct. Maybe that's the confusion. I'm from DENK and I'm talking about issues, whether it's about education at the weekend or about standards and values. What strikes me, Mr Segers, is that sometimes we give meaning to deeds, a very great meaning; that is what I address you to. "Islamism," you said. As if all Dutch people knew the difference, as if people in the Netherlands knew that Islamism is a political movement of Islam! People read "Islamicism" and think, "Hey, are we at war?" Is that Mr Segers saying that? Are we in the front line? Is there a daily fight in those classrooms? I think many teachers have also blamed you for that. They see that this is a kind of rhetoric, a way of speaking, which only does more harm. Of course there are teachers... I see it, too. I do some guest classes, too. I have friends who are teachers. That is incredibly difficult; I give it to you to teach. But let's use our wits. Let's not throw oil on the fire, but let's just keep the peace. I thought you did that really, really wrong at that point, with language like "war" and "frontline." I thought, what's going on here? I'm not used to that from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u57	There is indeed a battle going on, a battle for the hearts, the heads, also of the Islamic community, of all of us. Do you stand for freedom or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u58	That's a wrong contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u59	Do you have the freedom to believe in this country? Yes. But that also means that there is a freedom not to believe and to criticize that faith. The dividing line runs right through all communities. So I'm not pushing anyone, I'm not pushing everyone and everyone into a corner. I say, let us stand shoulder to shoulder for that freedom, for your freedom, for my freedom, for your children, for my children. That's the point. The simple question I ask you is: do you see a role for yourself and do you see it for the Islamic community? Could it be that also foremen of the Islamic community say: hey, so there is a dynamic in a classroom where students take offense at a cartoon that has no reason at all, but well, they take offense at it and that leads to a teacher who has to go into hiding? And in the end, those students can just go to school, and that teacher is still hiding; that is a totally invigorating and undigestable situation!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u60	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u61	My simple question is... I don't come here with all kinds of hostility and all kinds of images. You're reacting very excited and very angry. I only ask you: do you see a role for yourself, and do you see a role for foremans of communities, of the Islamic community, to address parents, to explain what the concept of freedom is, and that freedom is very beautiful, but it also means that it sometimes hurts and that you are criticised?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u62	Of course. Of course I say to Mr Segers that that is my job. Of course, it is also up to Mr Segers to be normal, to lead the way and to address parents. That's always one of the wrong assumptions. I see a lot of organizations. I'll be in touch with the list. All these organisations have said: this is not going well and here we have to stand together. There are also a lot of teachers with an Islamic background. I read this week a great interview with a teacher who said: I've been able to discuss all the cartoons with me in class and I've been able to do it safely. Of course I agree with Mr Segers that I have a job to do. He has that too, and we all with the parents have a job to make sure that our children are brought up well and do not do the wrong things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u63	Thank you for that answer. I think that is really crucial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u64	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u65	We are now at a point where we can disagree enormously, but it is about the rule of law and freedom. We must all defend them and everyone must take their role. Let us make it very concrete. We can send out an e-mail saying that we condemn it and hate it all, but then go back to the order of the day. Now it comes to a school in Rotterdam and a school in Den Bosch where teachers are victims of intimidation. They fear for their lives. That's how bad it is. So what are we going to do in concrete terms? What are you going to do in concrete terms? You stand here and say something about it. That's one thing. But what more can we do, what more can you do and what more can the Islamic community do to stand up for freedom now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u66	I have indicated that I think that at that school those students, that teacher, the board and the parents should get together, so that it is pronounced where it can be done. If criminal acts have been committed, people must be punished for that. The aim must be for the teacher to get to work as quickly as possible, get support and simply carry out his profession, not because it is in his interest, but because it is in the interests of those students and society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u67	I mentioned the point that many non-practical Muslims have difficulty, are threatened and experience unliberacies here in the Netherlands. I would also like to offer a solution to this issue with my colleague from DENK. I would like to know if he has any suggestions for that. How do we get to within the community, to tolerance towards each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u68	I have different friends. I have friends who are non-practical Muslims. They have the freedom to do so. I have friends and acquaintances who themselves interpret how they deal with Islam. I know that's complicated, especially in families. In families, it's complicated when someone says, "I'm not a Muslim." That always hits me, because then I see that someone can be expelled from that group. He won't be able to get into the warmth of that family anymore. That's the most common thing. So you can see that mostly happens in the family. It is very rare that someone who says he is not a Muslim, because he is not practicing or whatever, is then threatened. It's the family situation, the family situation, in particular. I have no concrete solution for that. Sometimes that happens because for someone confessing Islam is more important than having that connection. I don't have a solution for that right away. I know that happens a lot. I would like people to come together, despite all the differences, to keep loving each other and going on with each other. But I don't have a solution for that right away, Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u69	Checking someone if they decide not to wear a headscarf, that people look at each other differently, would of course be one of the points that should be discussed in the classroom. That is precisely where tolerance and understanding are at the heart of each other. Isn't that where our strength lies? How are we going to do what is happening in the Netherlands with the teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u70	Because of what you're saying, you have to allow that teacher to discuss that difference. The space you claim to be yourself, you must also grant someone else. That's what I've been saying for 20 years. The freedom you have, you must be able to grant someone else. I think that an excellent teacher should be able to talk to his students within that security and that he should be able to talk about that difference. It shouldn't be that he doesn't and that someone will be confronted with it later and think: I don't know how to deal with it, so I'm gonna go check it out. There are a lot of people wearing headscarfs, and they do it without a problem. I've got them in my area. That is not a problem for a lot of people, but I agree with you that they are sometimes retraced. It happens. Of course, I do not have a problem with all issues. Perhaps I could come to the cabinet with proposals. Maybe we can table a motion together. But I do not have a problem with all the issues in the Netherlands, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u71	You mean "a solution."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u72	A problem for all issues. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yeah, sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u73	Yeah, making problems is a lot easier than coming up with solutions. That's absolutely true. I'm looking. I will certainly come to the cabinet with a proposal later. But I can also imagine that we agree that as a government we have to make a number of issues absolutely mandatory, that we want them discussed in the classroom. Wouldn't that help teachers already? Because then it is not their initiative, but then it is our initiative that they have to bring it that way. Do you think that would help?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u74	The week was discussed about the new Citizenship Act. With some space and some debate about and again a law has been established. If Mrs Van Brenk has a proposal for that, I think that's fine. You can, of course, also just a... what is the name of such a thing? Discussing? To make a proposal on how teachers could deal with this. I see people do that. I see that, if anything happens anywhere in the world, someone with an expertise writes a textbook called "That's what it writes." The teacher can do something with that. If you say to me 'let's sit for that together', then after the elections we can see how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u75	I thought: I'll try something new; I'm going to ask a question about something Mr Azarkan did say. He gets a lot of questions about what he didn't say. It was asked whether he could speak to the Netherlands on behalf of all Muslims. I believe that both Mr Azarkan and a lot of Muslims in the Netherlands are not waiting for that role. You were right to talk about how sometimes 20 years of hatred about communities can be poured out. You also said something that scared me a little bit, namely that freedom is being abused to molest symbols that are sacred to other people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u76	Yeah, it happens. Wilders does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u77	How do you see an abuse of freedom in that? I'm just trying to weigh that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u78	I'll explain that to you. The freedom we know here with each other, the freedom of expression, is limited. You know that. In criminal law, we have agreed that Article 137c of the Treaty states that you must not insult, encourage others to hate and not discriminate. I see that freedom of speech is being abused occasionally to do so. Then you're gonna be charged, you're gonna have to go to the judge and you're gonna be recalled. For example, freedom of expression is sometimes abused to hurt, offend others. It's a good thing we agreed to that. I know a lot of people in the Netherlands think you can really yell anything in this country. I'm surprised at that. We have to say that I also heard Mr Kikk say that children show that they have thick skin and so on. That's partly true. But I wonder why we have anti-bully programs in schools. A child comes home, a child of 5, and says, "Daddy, Mom, I've been bullied, because things have been called against me." You can say that's freedom of speech, and yet we don't. I'm on the side of decency. I think that a great deal of expression means that you also think very carefully about whether you're hurting the other person. That's a trade-off that you have to make individually. And if you go too far in that, then we have Article 137c, which states that a number of things cannot be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u79	Then I understand better now. But we don't lay down decency laws here. I immediately agree with Mr Azarkan when he says that it does not necessarily make you a nice person when you step on their souls all day long, kicking the shins, hurting and hurting the depths of their identity. That doesn't make you a nice person. But as long as it happens within the limits of the law, I don't think that's an abuse of our freedom, no matter how undesirable I think it may be, no matter how much I would like to call people on a human level: boy, you know, if you have a choice, don't do it for once. But it is that freedom that we all have to guard, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u80	Sure. I think we're on the same side. As long as it stays within the limits of the law, you can. I just heard words about the 120,000 people who signed a petition. I don't understand why there's so much criticism of that, regardless of the timing. I don't understand. Why is there so much criticism? Why? I'll explain it to you. Because these people have done what we have built here in centuries. They have made use of their democratic fundamental rights. There are colleagues out there being harassed, intimidated by people who do not agree with them. That's terrible. They're out of here. These people have said: what are the rules of the game that we have agreed with each other; we are going to do so in a very nice and decent way. You have to respect that. You must appreciate that. I received a petition yesterday. Why else would we respond to a petition when it is offered by Muslims? And then we actually say, "You're just finished. You can't do anything. You can't do that at all. You must not use your fundamental rights, because you are doing it the wrong way." I just don't understand that. Why should a group of Dutch people not say: this is what we want?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u81	Well, we almost agreed...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u82	We agree on freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u83	Yeah, but not about this. Mr Azarkan says in a clause: yes, regardless of timing. Of course there is quite a point in that timing, when this petition is started two days after an attack. I agree with Mr Azarkan. There's about nothing more Dutch than when you want to change something. What are you doing? You go to Petities.nl and you make a petition. Yeah, that's kind of become part of our national culture and folklore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u84	The SP procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u85	Sure. I love petitions. I could wallpaper my walls with it in the meantime. But Mr Azarkan cannot seriously believe that when such a petition is launched two days after an attack, he does not understand why people feel affected by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u86	Look, I'll explain to you what that does. Actually, it's said, because you have a wrong shape... I agree with you: it is unfortunate. I agree. What matters to me is what happens next. In fact, at that moment it is being established: it is happening in an unfortunate way and now you are actually done; we are not going to talk about the content anymore. I think you should take a look at the contents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u87	I see Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen sits down again. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij, then Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen and then Mr Van Ojik. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u88	Mr Azarkan's point also touched me: what is wrong with such a petition "how do you deal with each other" regardless of timing? But isn't it the very essence that you can do that at all possible moments, "how do you deal with each other," but that you shouldn't do that after an attack, which is how you actually pretend to speak under pressure of threat and terror, we should have a good conversation about how we're dealing with each other now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u89	I do not understand your question at all. I think I have just indicated, through you, to Mr Van der Staaij, that the timing is unfortunate, but I think you should look at what is being asked. If that complies with the rules we have agreed on, can we just accept them and discuss them with each other? It's not like we're looking at the timing of all the petitions, is it? I don't understand why you're ruling out a group of people based on timing. That's painful, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u90	I note that Mr Azarkan does not really understand when he asks what is wrong with this, except the timing. Isn't the very essence of what you say: when attacks have just been committed, where people lose their lives and where people are in mourning, isn't that the right time to talk about exactly how we deal with each other? Then you just need to shut up and find other moments to have the conversation about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u91	This is exactly what's wrong. A group of people is in pain, wants to see something changed and makes a proposal in a democratic way. And then Mr Van der Staaij says: you should just shut up, because you have nothing to want, you are far too early. That's really what's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u92	Does Mr Azarkan agree with me that everyone in the Netherlands must comply with the law and operate within the framework of the democratic rule of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u93	Mrs Van Kooten, we know each other so well that, if you didn't know about me, that would be something really new for me. But I'm curious about the sequel.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u94	That's good to hear. My proposal is actually: for a lot of functions, you need an explanation of behavior, a vog. This is what you need, for example, if you want to become an accountant or a teacher, or an employee at the Chamber or in the youth care department. Wouldn't it be a good idea not only to demand a dog from imams, but from all spiritual servants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u95	Of all of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u96	I'm gonna have to do some "K" anyway...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u97	Yeah, they're...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u98	This is a little disturbing. This is a very interesting debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u99	Who would we ask for a vog from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u100	Mrs Van Kooten, please clarify your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u101	For many professions and positions you need a statement about behaviour: for youth care, to become a teacher, to become an employee of the Lower House. Isn't it a good idea not only to demand a dog from imams, but from all spiritual servants?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u102	You can make that proposal and we'll discuss it. But I think it runs counter to the Constitution. But you can make that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u103	Surely everyone must abide by the Dutch law within the framework of the democratic rule of law? I do not see that this proposal runs counter to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u104	Then I suggest that you make that request and we will discuss it with each other. A number of scribes will indicate that this is contrary to the Constitution. Well, that could just happen, but I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u105	I'm also going to ask the Minister to investigate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u106	Yes, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u107	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u108	Then I will go to Mr Van Ojik, then to Mrs Yeşilgöz and then to Mrs Kuik. Mr. Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u109	I do not think we should necessarily use this debate to make sense of each other. Moreover, Mr Azarkan has said a great deal to me. But still around that petition, because it's starting to lead a kind of life of its own. I also read elsewhere that the petition would be the point. Just after a teacher was murdered because he offended the prophet, there's this petition about................................................................................................................................................. That is the problem, not the fact that a petition is being drafted, regardless of the timing. I therefore object a little bit to that being said: if the Muslim community makes a petition, it is not good again. Of course, it's about the content of that petition. I would ask Mr Azarkan to face that and, if he wishes to say something about it, to say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u110	I have indicated that the feeling among this group of people is that if they come into the news in an unfortunate way, in the first sentence of the petition, it says that all violence is strongly condemned, which is also signed by 120,000 people, it seems as if we are serving them on the form immediately. I can see that here, too. Mr Van der Staaij says it: you're quiet now, you shouldn't do that, that's not part of it. How do we deal with petitions here? I have received many, including as Vice-President of EZK. We thank the petitioners, even if we disagree with what they want. Then we thank the petitioners for exercising their democratic rights. Isn't it much better if they do it with a petition than if they get very angry and, for example, throw stones? It's a good thing they're making use of their democratic right, isn't it? So appreciate that, and then say, "Oh, boy, it's unfortunate in timing." But it's about the content, isn't it, Mr. Van Ojik? It's about the content, isn't it? This group of people is something. You can discuss that with each other. It was abolished in 2014 and it was said that Article 137c offers sufficient guarantees. At that time, the initiators indicated that this provided sufficient guarantees. Mr Van der Staaij was against the abolition, and I think the CDA was against it too, and the Christian Union also wanted to keep it. So if it had been up to the Christian Union, the CDA and the SGP, we still had this law. That's a moving insight. Parliament decides and then a group of people says: would that be an idea? You can appreciate that and then you can say to each other: we don't think that's a good idea, because in the consideration we make, we think that this is better solved in another way. That's what I'm talking about. It's more like, how do you deal with it procedurally? I object to you saying: you have timed wrong and you are done with that. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u111	That may be strange, but that is also maintained by Mr Azarkan by saying at this point: you know, now one chooses a super-Dutch formula...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u112	A democratic one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u113	...and then the weather isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u114	Yeah, that's the feeling there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u115	I would ask Mr Azarkan to talk about the content. Something's being asked in that petition. The reason that it was experienced very widely as distasteful or as bad timing or whatever qualification you give it, of course has to do with the combination. It has nothing to do with the fact that it is a petition, but that something very specific is asked in that petition, two days after a teacher is beheaded for that very reason. I ask you to talk about the content and respond to it, Mr. Azarkan. The content is that insulting the prophet must be criminalized again. Then respond to that. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u116	I think it's good that we receive the petition, I think we should exchange arguments about it and I think it's very good that you... Look, the world isn't black and white to me. I'm the last one who wants to ban anything. Forbidden is the last station. That means that all other means do not work. Surely it makes sense, Mr. Van Ojik, that when you say "we're gonna talk about this," you look at what's happened in the past few years at that point? It was abolished in 2014. So we analyze how often it has occurred that it has been solved through Article 137c, or how often it has been tested against the ECHR. We exchange arguments and then we do business with each other on the basis of a thorough debate. So let's have that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u117	In my view, Mr Azarkan is now doing what I am trying to seduce him all the time, namely saying something about the content and not just recording it for the fact that it is a petition and saying: the criticism is just about the fact that it is a petition. So let us indeed have that debate. My question to Mr Azarkan was as follows. I sometimes receive a petition. And I usually have an opinion on that. I agree with what is being asked in the petition, whether I disagree or I want to think about it again. In this case, something is being asked that seems like a bad idea. I think that's a bad idea. And I wonder what Mr Azarkan thinks about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u118	Well, I'm not so black and white in there. I would like to look into this very carefully first and then I will answer you. If there is a proposal to debate it here, we will enter into that debate with each other and then we will exchange the arguments. I hope you will allow me to get into the matter before I have an opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u119	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u120	I don't know if Mr. Azarkan is a star in turning and not answering, or if he's a little anxious and just doesn't want to. I don't know. But I'll deal with him. I don't serve that whole petition at all, the form or the time. Because I take it very seriously. I have read it very well, and I have seen it very well when it has been submitted. That's been considered. A teacher is beheaded because he did what he had to do: trying to make children resilient. He's being decapitated. And the next reaction of a large part of the Islamic community, more than 100,000 signatures, is: let's see what made these people so angry that they had to be decapitated. This isn't unfortunate timing. This is a very conscious timing for the discussion to take place all of a sudden. But that's not what this discussion is about. That discussion is about the fact that a teacher has been beheaded, about the fact that in our country teachers have to go into hiding from their students because they are intimidated by them. That's what this is about. So I take that petition very seriously. I find it reprehensible what it says. I'm starting the democratic debate here. If you ask me, I could answer it normally, because I have thought about it and I am not turning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u121	Well, it's fantastic that you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u122	Then the timing is very conscious, so let's not call it "unhappy." There's been a lot of thought about why you'd come up with such a petition two days after a murder. It is precisely what is happening here: to pretend that the debate is about freedom of expression. Mr. Azarkan is in on it and pretends to be a bit of a wimp. But the message here is once again very clear, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u123	These are unfounded suspicions! I really have no idea, really no idea what Mrs Dilan Zegerius is referring to. I really mean that. Apparently, she knows something, she sees something that's been cooked up, that these people have invented. But I don't see it. I honestly don't see it. But perhaps you can explain it to me, I say, through you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u124	Mr President, I do not know how many interruptions I have left, but at least today I will try to get one clear answer from Mr Azarkan, so that everyone who looks at home also knows what DENK stands for. It's a lot of twisting, it's a lot of blah, blah, blah. But when we are talking about whether insulting the Prophet should be forbidden, yes or no, do you not think it is incredibly antisocial to say two days after the beheading of a teacher: let's see why these people got so angry? Doesn't DENK agree that the whole discussion should be about this all day? How can young Islamic children not be resistant, that they don't know how to react when you see a drawing you don't like? Couldn't it be that Mr. Azarkan could have said here like imam Elforkani "I urge you never to do this again" and "make our children resilient"? Mr Azarkan is not taking any chances. And now he's just gonna say a little bit about "you got to do the decent thing." Come on!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u125	I'm gonna sit on that anyway. It may be strange for Mrs. Zegerius, but I think you should do decency. Once again, I am not giving up on what she says about it. Because these people are also concerned about the increasing tension in society. That's what it says. But she didn't read that part. Again, from my point of view, I say that banning is the last thing we have to do. But I do think you can have a discussion about that. I think you should appreciate people who have a democratic input. Again, I'd rather that than be attacked outside or spoken to by people who disagree with something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u126	Then I have Mrs. Kuik and then Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u127	It didn't go wrong with Samuel Paty because his students didn't want to take lessons. No, it went wrong because a father then became furious and felt personally attacked in his identity. He then judged this teacher as his enemy, about the greatest enemy there could be. Does Mr Azarkan not agree with me that if we go back on the path of blasphemy, which we have not abolished for nothing, we are going to increase that feeling of enmity, that feeling of identity and that feeling of blasphemy again, and that this alone is the reason not to want to go back on that path?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u128	I take note with interest of the opinion of the PvdA in this debate. That's an opinion, too. It's possible. If we are going to have a debate on this, we still have to do so. We can exchange the arguments. Again, it was abolished in 2014. So it was until 2014. I don't know if there was a lot of tension in society back then. I do not know whether that has led to the absence of freedom of expression until 2014. I'm just looking at where we're at right now. Am I supposed to find something that Mrs. Chicken doesn't think is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u129	That is precisely what we need to find, precisely because it raises the tension in society and the tension in society. What you find is clear to me, precisely because of your silence and not giving an answer. But the tension is getting worse. I'm not saying kids should have thick skin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u130	Yes, you did.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u131	I told them to learn... Just so you know, I told them to learn how to deal with what offers freedom. I want to teach them that they may very much love their god or their Allah without feeling attacked in their identity at the time a cartoon arises; that it doesn't evoke enmity and that you don't have to feel any tension. You may feel hurt, but then there should be no side-to-side images. The moment you walk the path of another ban on blasphemy, you go along exactly with the feeling that it is okay to speak in criminalisation, in him versus me or in enemy images that only provoke tension. So I would really like to ask you not to go down that path, because that is not going to help. It only strengthens the contradictions and it will not increase our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u132	I take note with interest of Mrs Kuik's opinion on this point. If this is her input in the debate, if we are going to talk about it, it is good that we can talk about it with each other. Again, I'm not the one who says it should be banned. I don't know if you want to hear anything. I say I want to study it seriously. Apparently, we can't do that here. I just want to study it seriously. I have seen that there has been a case brought before the ECHR that has held up. It was about not being allowed to insult the Prophet. So there is a limit. The question is how that works out in our society. It's a good thing we can disagree on that, isn't it? Again, I'm not saying this is a very good idea. But I'm not saying this isn't possible. I think we should do what we always do, namely exchange the arguments, and I know where you stand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u133	I think that played naivety is pretty naive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u134	This isn't played naivety. That doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u135	I was very polite and I listened to you, when you didn't really answer my question time and time again. I'm still trying to talk to you. I would like to say why I think it is a dangerous route to return to the path of blasphemy in response to tensions throughout Europe. I'll give you some arguments as to why I think so. I'm just asking you very sincerely, given everything that's going on right now, what you think. And all you're saying is, I'm gonna think about it again. Come on! Now's not the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u136	Why are you so angry?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u137	The moment is now. Now is the time to talk about the fact that all our children should simply have the right to freedom of education and feel safe in our society. But all you do is look away and play down the road. Don't do that, because it doesn't help anyone!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u138	What an incredible anger! I am standing here giving a serious answer and I notice that Mrs Kuik is running red. She's accusing me of everything! That's just wrong. I've indicated how I'm standing in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u139	Mrs Van Toorenburg and then Mr Segers or Mr Hiddema. I don't know. At least now, Mrs Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u140	Mr President, you can see me pacing here. You know I'm not at my best when I get hot, but I'm really eating up like this. Mr. Azarkan plays here the murdered innocence. He speaks up to something that's been called into question at the most wrong moment. Because he knows that the SGP, the Christian Union and the CDA didn't have much to do with abolishing the blasphemy. But that's not what this is about. This is about a teacher in a class discussing a cartoon, then being decapitated and then having a discussion about blasphemy. This is a new knife in this teacher's back! Mr Azarkan should realize that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u141	Again, what an enmity! What an anger! Why can't we have a proper conversation here? I note that this petition would have been superfluous if the CDA, the Christian Union and the SGP had gotten their way in 2014.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u142	It should say something to Mr Azarkan! It should say something that we knew when to keep our mouths shut on this issue!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u143	I won't shut up if you tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u144	That was now, when a teacher was beheaded...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u145	The time when parties here...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u146	When there was a teacher... I'm talking!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u147	... order me to shut up...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u148	I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u149	You don't decide when I'm gonna shut up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u150	Mr. Azarkan! Mr. Azarkan! No, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u151	What...?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u152	No, Mr. Azarkan. Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke and you will have the opportunity to respond. Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u153	This was the worst moment, the worst moment to start this petition. To do so again, as a murdered innocence, as if Muslims had less rights to petition... No, that was not the point at all. If a whole group of Muslims comes here to petition about circumcision, I will receive it with warmth, but this was about having a teacher beheaded. And then having the discussion about blasphemy is sick!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u154	Mr President, I do not understand where this madness comes from. I think it is really inappropriate to debate this with each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u155	For a decent debate, you need two people, including someone standing there and not constantly interrupting the people here. I'm sincerely disappointed in your position. I just asked a very open question. A lot of questions have been asked, in all kinds and keys. We're a little bit at the end of your contribution now. I've heard from you at the beginning: I'm sorry about the attack. But then there came a very big "but"; Muslims were victims and Mr Wilders was terrible and a tweet of mine was terrible; it was a hot one and we wanted to deny Muslims their rights to offer a petition. They're all turning around, moving around. While this is such a crucial moment. Now you must stand for freedom, for freedom of all, for everyone. I stand for your freedom. If I have to, I'll interrupt Mr. Wilders when it comes to restricting the freedom of Muslims. Then we have a debate on that. But I want, I can only stand shoulder to shoulder with you if you stand for freedom now. If you say now, someone's been murdered, beheaded and we're going to start a petition and I'm fine with that petition coming and we're going to talk about the hurting, the insulting and the blasphemy law, which is totally different from the dead law we had, which was never put in place again... if you say right now that you want to talk about a blasphemy law and you're fine with that, do you know what you're saying? Then you say, "The killer had a point."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u156	I find it really shocking what Mr Segers is doing here. He puts words in my mouth. I didn't start the petition. I didn't. I didn't sign it either. I didn't. I'm noticing anything. You're hearing something that isn't there. This is how it happens often, namely: Mr. Azarkan, you take your distance but you say "but." I didn't say "but." I didn't say "but," damn it. I've been side by side with teachers. I was a schoolmaster myself. Not only there, also here in the Netherlands there are problems; teachers are sometimes unsafe. And I find it incredibly handsome how they can teach, how sometimes they should tell the young people what time they should take their medications, how to take a break, how to guide them. So you find me side by side, but you hear a "but" that is not there. I find it shocking that you say to me, Mr. Azarkan, that you are quitting, but you are not doing it properly. Pure nonsense, Mr Segers. We stand side by side when it comes to our freedoms. That's what I stand for and they're limited by our laws. If that's different, and if we want it to be different, we're gonna talk about it. If there is a majority for that, then we have a way together. And if it isn't, then so be it, and then we'll always abide by those laws. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u157	I want to stand side by side, shoulder by shoulder with you for that freedom. That's what I want. If a teacher has now been murdered in France, if teachers are now in hiding in the Netherlands, then we must stand right in front of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u158	I do!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u159	Anyway... decency, that's what we were talking about. Let's do it again. If it is said that we want to talk about blasphemy, about a blasphemy law and about the grievances that led to this murder and to the hiding out of these teachers, if Mr Azarkan says "I find that interesting, I'm going to think about that for a moment," with all the shades of gray, he really falls through the lower limit. Of course you do not approve of this murder and I do not blame you, but what you do say is: he had a point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u160	No, it's pure bullshit with "he had a point." You're trying to put something in my mouth that I never said. It's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u161	Mr Azarkan is not doing a good service to Muslims in the Netherlands today. Because he asks me and others for respect for Muslims, but he shows zero, comma zero respect for that decapitated teacher. Indeed, colleagues have already said that: if, after decapitating a teacher showing a Mohammed cartoon, you start a petition, not to condemn that murder, but to legitimize the cause of that murder by means of a petition, because that happens, yes, you do not serve Muslims. Then you say to the Netherlands, then you say to Europe: our reaction to a decapitation because of a teacher, who just did his job and showed a Mohammed cartoon, is that that decapitation is actually good. That's the signal. That may not be literally in the petition, but that's the signal. It is shocking, but not surprising, that you do not simply clip-and-ready distance yourself from that petition and distance yourself from the proposal to criminalize Muhammad cartoons, insulting the Prophet. You can just say here: not only the timing is not good, but that signal was wrong and I am not in favour of it. You know, countries that do that, that criminalize it, are Sharia-like countries. There not only teachers but also other people are beheaded who insult the Prophet. If that is your message to the Netherlands, then you are doing Muslims a very, very bad service today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u162	The debate is getting weirder and weirder. Mr Wilders is here to advise me, Mr Wilders, who wants to shoot young Moroccan Muslims in their knees, who wants to ban headscarves, who has been in court twice for inciting hatred and insulting. And by the way, he's only convicted of gang oaths. Mr President, I am here to explain how I can do the Muslims a good service! Mr. Wilders, if you're good with Muslims, you should start talking to them in a normal tone. Not every time an attack is made, they all fall in line. To take them all out of the country, to take away their sacred books, to shut down mosques. So where do you come from to advise me on how to stand up for Muslims?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u163	Mr Azarkan is having a hard time, I can see that from him. He's waving his arms, he's getting nervous, and I get that, too. It is also not nice to hear from Mr Wilders in this case that I hear that you are doing Muslims a bad service. You're not going into what I'm saying. You can fillinate against me, you can call me names; I'm fine with all that. You just did. That is your good right; also freedom of expression. But let's get back to my point. My point was that DENK, who still believes and pretends to stand up for the Muslim community in the Netherlands, she just today you have been doing a really bad service here for 45 minutes. Because all the people, including the non-Muslims in the Netherlands, now think: well, nice that Azarkan, then a teacher is killed, beheaded, because of showing up in the classroom of a Mohammed cartoon, without saying anything, so just show them. It gets killed, and then a petition starts, a day after that, of people saying, "You have to ban it." So people who don't choose freedom but actually indirectly legitimize that murder. And then there's someone who pretends to represent Muslims in the Netherlands here in the Chamber, and they say, "Well, we should start thinking about that, if that's a good idea, you'll give me time to think about it." Again, you shoot in your own foot, in your own knees, I don't have to do that, I will never do that, you do that yourself, because by reacting like that, you do that, and that indeed comes out of my mouth, a large part of the Muslims in the Netherlands are wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u164	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u165	Mr. Chairman. A wave of terror attacks in Paris, Nice and Vienna. They're cowardly actions against our way of life and our freedoms. The jihadist violence has recently disappeared into the background in Europe through the international fight against IS and thanks to our excellent intelligence and security services, who do so much important work without us seeing it. But still... Not all the actions of loners, of terrorists acting on their own accord, can be prevented. Yet many people want to know whether we are really doing everything in our power to prevent such attacks in Europe and the Netherlands. While this cabinet reverses the cuts on the AIVD, the police are struggling with shortages. But we know that you are fighting terrorism with sufficient manpower instead of with even more laws that further restrict freedoms for everyone. I ask the Minister whether lessons can be learned from what happened in Vienna. One of the shooters was known as radicalized Muslims, released early, followed a deradicalisation process, but nevertheless struck. In what way are deradicalised people followed in the Netherlands? How are the deradicalisation programmes and integration programmes compatible? Does the Minister consider that the organisation and the capacity are in order? We are talking today about terrorist attacks and freedom of expression. Two things that may have nothing to do with each other at heart, but are connected by the roots of intolerance. A murdered teacher in France. A teacher in hiding in the Netherlands. And several threatened teachers. It's unacceptable. The perpetrators must be dealt with hard. We must now stand around our teachers and protect them. Teachers have a difficult but important task, namely to make difficult topics discussable in the classroom. That's what the French teacher Samuel Paty did. He acted from his educational heart. But he had to pay for opening the dialogue with his students with his life. It's been one day after exactly 16 years since I was in high school myself that Theo van Gogh was murdered. That attack made a big impression on me and was even the reason for me to become politically active. I remember teachers talking to us in class about that horrible event after that day. Anyone could ask questions and no opinion was wrong. That's the way it should be. But that safe school climate that D66 stands for is under pressure. There are still schools in the Netherlands where anti-gay statements have to be signed and there are schools where the display of mockery is considered unacceptable. Schools where our acquired freedoms are not praised, but are therefore challenged. It is therefore high time to modernise the freedom of education and education. Does the Prime Minister agree with me and, if so, what constitutional possibilities does he see for that? Mr. Chairman. Freedom of expression goes a long way, but is not unlimited. It's a right that comes with responsibility. The basis of that responsibility and freedom is taught in education. That's where you learn how to deal with other people's opinions. Intimidation or violence are never the answer. That's where we draw a line. We are creating the frameworks of freedom of expression here in this Parliament and the review is taking place in the courtroom by independent judges. That doesn't mean you can't talk about it in class. In fact, this should be promoted so that students learn how to form and develop an opinion and deal with other people's opinions. How can the cabinet do more about this? That's the only way we're gonna learn how to deal with differences. Only in this way will a new generation realize that there is always more to us than what separates us. As far as D66 is concerned, the way forward is towards mutual understanding and connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u166	Thank you. Mr Van der Staaij and then Mrs Van Toorenburg
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u167	First of all, on the point that I was a little bit caught up in an interruption by Mr Jetten. He said: it is wrong to talk to Muslims here about the attacks of jihadists, because we do not do that in Christianity when it comes to the attack in Christcurch? Now there's something in the name Christchurch that reminds of Christianity, but it's just a place in New Zealand and the unsub says: I was a communist, anarchist and libertarian and I became an ecofascist. That is indeed a very special mixture of views, but it has nothing to do with the Christians having to answer for what happened in New Zealand and that in this case Muslims should not feel addressed about what is happening in the name of Islam?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u168	Indeed, I do not think that any Christian should justify what happened there in Christchurch in New Zealand, just as Muslims do not have to answer for attacks in Paris or Vienna. They're individual cowardice acts you can't address other people. I brought Christchurch in because the perpetrator had all kinds of references to Christian victories on the Ottomans, the Turks and the Muslims. I particularly referred to Mr Wilders' interrupting to show how hypocritical it is and how ridiculous it is to ask other people to distance themselves from actions they have not committed themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u169	I don't think that's hypocritical at all. The unsub in New Zealand is clear. For a while I pointed out how he characterized himself: I was a communist, an anarchist, a libertarian, and I became an ecofascist. That is a special mixture of all kinds of points of view that you cannot make soup out of. No wonder you don't appeal to anyone as a member of the same group, or it should be some vague right-wing extremist group. But here Mr Jetten also mentions jihadism. jihadism is just a flow within Islam. Surely it is quite understandable that you say: if you confess your faith from Islam, then you can also justify how you stand against these acts of terror in the name of Islam? There's nothing wrong with asking and expecting that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u170	After these attacks, but also after all kinds of other attacks, such as the attack in Kabul, where all kinds of students were killed, I also heard many Dutch Muslims say: what a ridiculous and reprehensible act of terror; if people think that this is happening in the name of Islam, it is not in the name of my Islam. I see a lot of people doing that, too. That is also what these people are free to do, and that may also help with the conversation or debate in the Netherlands, or within the Islamic community in the Netherlands. What I oppose is that after every attack where someone shouts "Allahoe akbar," we will expect all Muslims to speak out against it or reject it. At the end of the day, Mrs Arib, Mr Azarkan, or any Muslim walking on the street, has nothing to do with the cowardly act of terror that someone else has committed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u171	Again, I think it's really an important difference whether you're talking about a certain current and a pattern in all kinds of places, or about individual acts that you can't make soup out of. I'm gonna keep that point up. But then there is another point. Mr Jetten now also comes back to the so-called anti-gay statement, which played in the debate on citizenship. My question is: are we not going to mix that very unhappyly with this debate? This is not in any way about statements saying that people should be killed, or anything. This is a completely different discussion on how far freedoms should go. Isn't it unfresh to mix that with this debate in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u172	This is indeed a very crazy debate, because everything is coming along. I am also struggling a little bit with what we are actually doing here and how we are helping the country a little bit with what we are exchanging here today. I quoted the anti-gay statement in my speech when I spoke about what I believe education is meant for, namely to create safe places for students so that they can engage in conversation with each other and form themselves and be ready for the harsh reality of society outside. If there are such explanations, I do not think there is a safe learning environment where all pupils and children can discover themselves, including in the areas of sexuality and sexual orientation. Last week, I was on the TV show. This is M. After I sat at the table myself to say something about those statements, I witnessed a wonderful conversation between three people from the reformed community and the presenter of the program. They said very nicely: we need the legislator and the government to create the right frameworks, but within these frameworks it is up to us as a community itself to talk to each other about how we want to deal with this, how we want to organise that safe learning environment and how we want to ensure that all children can develop themselves freely. I thought that was a very nice conversation. My quest is: how can we help the legislator to further promote this freedom within education?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u173	Mr Jetten himself also indicated that he wanted to have the right conversation. Then I say in my turn: then it does not help to serve statements as anti-gay statements without taking notice of the content. That also makes a lot of people angry. Is it true that that happens? While those same types of statements were still embraced by a PvdA minister ten years ago: so, what a good thing that the school is doing this way. That really calls for a more substantive discussion than just sabering it down in this way and creating an image that is not in line with the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u174	I am going to respond to that statement in substance. D66 has always resisted that, for years. I am glad that the debate is now taking place so strongly. But the fact that there are schools in the Netherlands that ask to reject homosexuality when registering their children also affects me personally, because I know how hard it is to discover and get out of your closet in high school. There can be no question of a safe learning climate, a learning climate in which you can discover yourself, discover your identity, if you know that something that is just part of your being is not something that you choose; it is something that you are simply rejected at the front. That is why I take a firm stand against this. But I am also prepared to discuss this with anyone who believes that such a statement is good. For I agree with Mr Van der Staaij: that is the only way forward to continue to have that conversation with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u175	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg and then to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u176	I try to get a little further in the debate every time. I therefore hope to be able to build on the progressive insight of D66. We have already talked about our own initiative law on the criminalisation of the glorification of terrorist violence, which means that you can't wave IS flags and that someone shouldn't preach that it's fantastic to cut off people's heads or kill children, and so on. Then I was a little shocked by the reaction of D66. They literally said: you should not ban it, because that hinders the public debate. I don't get it. Can Mr Jetten comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u177	I have a bit of a feeling that we are in some sort of Groundhog Day when it comes to banning this proposal to glorify terrorism. It was once CDA Minister Donner who first came up with it years ago. In my opinion, I heard this idea from the CDA group in 2014 and 2016, but it does not come to a discussion of the bill in this Chamber. I am therefore also looking for: what do we really want, or what does Mrs Van Toorenburg really want with this bill, because what exactly is glorification? It would be a restriction on our freedom of expression, and then we must understand very well what we mean by glorification. I still don't understand what glorification of terrorism would be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u178	Then I can explain to Mr Jetten how far we are. We are ready to prepare a statement of response to questions from D66, which actually ask for the familiar way, because it is all in the explanatory statement what glorification is. That is what D66 says in the written report: we do not want to stop the glorification of terrorist violence, because we actually think it enriches the public debate. I don't understand. So does Mr Jetten want to look again at his own contribution? Because, of course, I'm not going to defend it here, knowing that everyone is flaring it, even though we know in our hearts that it's the right way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u179	I don't know in the heart yet, and I don't know in the head. I always appreciate it when Members of Parliament put forward legislative proposals for their own initiative, because that is one of the most beautiful things we can do as representatives of the people. But I also think that it is my job to assess such a bill to see whether it is legal, whether it is a legitimate restriction on freedom of expression and whether it is also clear to the citizen what is expected of him or her. Mr. Chairman. Inciting hatred or violence is, of course, forbidden. So it is already clear to our services and the public prosecutors that they can take action. When it comes to glorification, I find that really less clear. If there's a video on YouTube with the beheading of someone, then I think that's all in this room a horrible video and we reject it. But there are people watching these videos; there are also people who like such a video. Are these people glorifying terrorism? There are people in the Netherlands who give terrible lectures and sermons. The person who does that does something objectionable, but are the people present at such a lecture glorifying terrorism? In the end, I think that is the legal question that we need to answer together here. So far in the legal process, my group has not yet received a good response from the CDA Group, and I also note that the Council of State has taken a negative view of this bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u180	The bill is still under discussion. Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u181	In itself, it is right for Mr Jetten to ask critical questions, but those were not the questions that D66 asked. D66 didn't want this law. In their view, the glorification of terrorist violence should be possible, as it enriches the public debate and should not hinder public debate. That was the reasoning of D66. I honestly do not understand this reasoning. Someone should not be able to say from a pulpit "see what a fantastic image of someone being slaughtered" and then show these images as well. It doesn't just say that people should do it, but it's totally praised in heaven. We shouldn't want that in this society, should we? That's not enriching the public debate, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u182	I would certainly not call that kind of text an enrichment of the public debate. If this happens, then I think it is very good if there are many more people standing up to speak out against it and show that we do not accept it in this country. There is a grey area between glorification and prohibition. You end up in an unclear phase at many moments. Are all the people watching that kind of movies, listening to that kind of sermons, maybe liking or retweeting something, glorifying terrorism? Should they then be persecuted and punished? I think that's a long way to go. We can strongly disagree with everything these people do, but I really think it goes a long way to prosecute them and punish them if they do not encourage hatred, violence and terrorism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u183	It's a little crazy, because the SP in this Chamber has been one of the greatest critics of article 23. However, I would like to say here that there is no article 23 in France and that it did not prevent an attack on a teacher. So let's not hang everything on that. Mr Jetten's words about the gay statements have been taken from my heart. I fully endorse this. I note, however, that my colleague Van Dijk, together with Tofik Dibi, then MP of GroenLinks, has been working on it since 2009. D66 and PvdA joined. Then a party went into the cabinet and that law went back into the fridge. After that the party left the cabinet, but then another party went into the cabinet and remained that law in the fridge. We have been talking about this acceptance for 12 years now. Why don't we all agree that we're really gonna stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u184	I'd think that was wise. Next week we will be voting on Mr Kwint's motion. I think we'll do that next Tuesday. I believe that Article 23 needs to be modernised in this country. Within the constitutional freedom of education, we must be able to impose an acceptance obligation on schools, so that all pupils who want to go to such a school are accepted there as well. It is also important that citizenship education, which we all consider to be very important, be properly designed in all schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u185	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. Before I give the floor to Mr Segers, I would like to suspend for three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u186	We will continue with the debate on the terrorist act in France and freedom of expression. I give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u187	Thank you for that, Madam President. We're standing here for the murder of Samuel Paty in France, the murder of three praying people in a basilica in Nice and the murder of four people in Vienna. Also closer to home are teachers from Rotterdam and Den Bosch hiding because of a cartoon. This is actually another debate. We say, "Your suis Charlie Hebdo, your suis professeur, we don't bow." I believe that when Mr Wilders made his proposal, he said: for the hundred thousandth time. It is indeed yet another debate. It also has something impotent and frustrating that we say all kinds of words to each other again and say what should happen and how we could change the helm. At the same time, doing nothing is not an option. And yes, it's a battle. It's a battle for the hearts and minds, an ugly Dutch term of many young people, of the youngest generation. It is a struggle for freedom and the rule of law. It is a struggle to be the freedom to be yourself and to believe or not and to speak out about it. That is a battle that we must not lose. But what can you do? Yes, there are a number of tougher instruments of the rule of law. Instruments can be used in this fight. We have talked very often about limiting funding from non-free countries to foundations, mosques, or whatever here. That's what I call first. There has been talk of putting a stop to that. Legislation has been announced, but we have been waiting for that for a long time. I would like to ask the Cabinet when this will be done. At the same time, however, I would like to say that if this is difficult for some reason, or if it cannot be done on the part of the cabinet, it must be done on the part of the Chamber. We want to be able to regulate that. We don't want to import freedom. You can think a lot and find a lot. But once again, subsidy for freedom seems to me too much of the good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u188	Could I ask Mr Segers whether he thinks Islam belongs to the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u189	That depends on how you ask this question. From a historical point of view, I would say that it is not. In fact, I would say: yes, now Islam belongs to the Netherlands. It is part of Dutch society. There are Muslims and they have mosques and Islamic schools. In that sense, it belongs to society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u190	Do you think it is a good thing that Islam is becoming more and more widespread in the Netherlands, that it is becoming more and more pregnant and that it is increasingly being taken into account? Or do you say with the PVV: actually that is not a good thing and we should really get rid of the Islamization of the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u191	You'll have to distinguish two things. There is the substantive assessment of a religion. If you ask a Christian if he thinks Islam is a good thing, he says: no, for I am a Christian and believe in the gospel and that Jesus is the son of God. The answer to the question of whether I think that is a good thing is no. Do I think it is a good thing that churches become some army, Mr. Wilders doesn't go to church anymore and others don't go to church anymore? No, I don't think that's a good thing. Do I think it is a good thing that there is freedom not to go to church anymore or to be Muslim? Yeah, I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u192	For someone who says that as a Christian, he doesn't really like the fact that the Netherlands is Islamic... That's what happens. I believe we have 1 million Muslims. That number is the same as it was ten years ago, so it doesn't make any sense at all. There'll probably be a lot more. Mr Segers just said it happens to us. He said, "Here we are again for the hundredth time." But, of course, we can start by turning off that crane. If we were to start closing the borders for even more Islam, as you could say for ten years, or as long as your party is in the cabinet... we could say no more immigrants from Islamic countries and no more asylum seekers from Islamic countries. We can do whatever we want if there's a majority in this house. But the Christian Union fails every time. So aren't you crying a little crocodile tears by saying: well, I'm a Christian and I actually think Islam isn't part of the Netherlands? In the end, you are the one who, with the open borders, has brought 750,000 non-Western immigrants into the Netherlands over the last ten years, including hundreds of thousands of Muslims. You can't say you'd mind if you didn't do anything about it, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u193	Here again two things. One. I'm against open borders. I'm against the limitless, but I'm going to let anyone else in. You need to know who you're gonna let in here and why someone's gonna come here. And yes, if someone has a good reason to flee elsewhere, then the Netherlands has always been a safe place to flee. I'm still in favour of continuing to offer that place. If you say 'go against Islamisation', by closing mosques or by, I don't know, a Qur'an ban or that headscarf ban we had to have from you, that whole PVV toolbox, then we come to the heart of this debate. Then we come to the core of what freedom is and what your party is named after. Freedom is not only freedom for people, for ideologies, for ideas and for religions that suit you. It's not just for your friends. It's also for people who believe something that's at odds with you. That is my plea now and that was my interruption to Mr Azarkan: you can not only claim freedom, you also have to give freedom, also to people with a view to it in your case and my case also to Muslims who you say: I do not believe in it, it is contrary to my own view and it sometimes strikes me against my chest. Yet they have the same rights and duties as me as a Christian and you as... whatever you are. That's the concept of freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u194	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u195	This is indeed the core, because of course you should not give freedom to ideologies that aim to take away your own freedom. That would be very stupid. We also have no Nazi schools in the Netherlands. That's a good thing. We also don't have temples for hardcore communists. So if we don't have Nazi schools, why do we have Islamic schools? If we don't have nazi temples, why do we have mosques? They are both supporters of totalitarian ideologies. If you leave them, they'll have the death penalty on them. So you can't say "that's freedom," then let Islam into the Netherlands, then let hundreds of thousands of Muslims into the Netherlands in ten years and then say if things go wrong: yes, that's freedom; I'm in favour of it, but I'm not doing anything about it. No, Mr Segers! If you really think, as a Christian, that Islam is not part of the Netherlands, and I agree with you, then you must also deliver. Then you must also ensure that those symbols of that, of that ideology that wants to take away our freedom... No Islamic country is a free country. You know that, Mr Segers; you've lived there. So get rid of that islam from the Netherlands, just to keep our freedom. And if you continue with open borders and say, "I mind but I don't do anything about it," you will be jointly responsible for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u196	So I am not in favour of open borders. I am in favour of regulated migration. But also this is the core. Mr Wilders says: all Muslims are our opponents; Islam is our enemy. So he's potentially arguing with... what is it, how many billion people? In any case, with a million Dutchmen, whom he declares a potential enemy, as people he opposes. That is not only factually incorrect, because, for example, Aboutaleb is someone who is also threatened in part. And Marcouch stands up in these days and speaks out against terror and against salafism. Those aren't opponents. When it comes to the rule of law and freedoms, they are your supporters. When Mr Wilders says to me, "You're not doing anything," I say, "No, that's not true, but you have to fight with the right people." This cabinet has planned to ban organizations earlier, by adjusting Civil Code Article 220. If an organization's goal is to overthrow democracy, then you have to draw that line much sooner. Germany has done that a long time ago. We need to do it faster and sooner. We have said: that foreign funding, that subsidy from non-free countries, you cannot allow it to go this way indefinitely. That's a salafism subsidy. You have to regulate it. You say I don't deliver. In that sense, I can agree with Mr Wilders that it is taking a very long time. Then you also see how difficult legislation is, how difficult it is to sit in a coalition and work on it every time. How hard it is to make exactly a law that does what you want it to do, which is to fight with the right people. With people who just want freedom and then take away your and my freedom. Those are our opponents, and not the freedom-loving Muslims with which you stand shoulder to shoulder, such as a mayor Aboutaleb and a mayor Marcouch, who fight with us for that freedom. They are democratically my supporters and not my opponents.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u197	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u198	One final comment, Mr President. I do have the right to react if Mr Segers says something that is not right. I didn't say, never said, even today, that all Muslims are enemies or something. Those aren't my words. I'm talking about ideology, Islam. If you agree with me that Islam does not belong to the Netherlands, if you agree with me that Islam is a totalitarian ideology and that, despite all the differences, it is in its entirety the same thing as fascism and other totalitarian ideologies, which you should not rely on punishment for death, who want to lead and who want to rule over everyone in a country, which is what the word "islam" means, even if you agree with me, you cannot say that we should only grant freedom to that ideology. That's unsellable. Those mosques are temples of that ideology. The schools are institutions where young, vulnerable children are indoctrinated with an ideology that you do not think belongs to the Netherlands. So it's hoof or calf. Or you say I'm fine with that, and I'll allow it. Or you say what you say: I do not think it belongs to the Netherlands. Then you must not allow the institutions of that ideology freedom, because they are doing it to take away our freedom. That's ideology more than people. But you cannot make a distinction in this regard when it comes to mosques, whether or not you allow it, I repeat, if we in the Netherlands were to allow a post-sat temple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u199	Religiously, there is a gap between Islam and a Christian like me. But in a democratic sense, in a state of law, that does not apply to all Muslims. That's a distinction you have to make. That is really, with permission, the tactical error that Mr Wilders is making. By saying "all Islam," everything and everyone, we push them away from us. Make a distinction between people who really want your freedom and my freedom and those who stand next to us and stand for freedom. That is the battle we must fight politically. When it comes to a religious contradiction, I have the conversation of faith and I have the conversation with everyone who does not agree with me and who does not share my beliefs. For my freedom is the freedom of a Muslim, is the freedom of Mr Wilders, is the freedom of a communist, is the freedom of a liberal, is the freedom of everyone, and is always reciprocal. That's what I stand for. Madam President. If we manage to do something about this foreign financing from non-free countries, it can of course be avoided very easily in European terms. I read in the letter a intention to address this issue in a European context too. I'd like to hear the progress. Another element in the letter touches on the Temporary Act administrative measures to combat terrorism. That law, for example, allows for an area ban. It ends in March 2022. For example, this law has once been introduced against a radical imam. It is an instrument that can help us to regulate, protect, steer. Shouldn't that law be extended? For example, an extension of five years would not be good, I ask the cabinet. When it comes to protection and more the harsher side of the rule of law, I also call for very specific attention to be paid to the protection of the Jewish community. If there is hatred somewhere and intolerance and jihadism, the Jewish community is always the first in the line of fire, always one of the first victims. Last year the terror threat level was scaled down. I would like to ask the cabinet that, despite this scaling-up, the security of Jewish institutions, the Jewish community, remains guaranteed by the military. I'd like a commitment on that point. With only legislation, only protection, only that hard side you're not there. It's also about thinking, about the hearts and minds of our society and of a community. This includes the protection of teachers. How can we offer teachers the security and freedom to be a teacher, to discuss in the classroom what they need to discuss and what they want to discuss? How can we, if this threat comes, see that it comes very close in Rotterdam and in Den Bosch, yet appeal to those parents? Isn't there a role for the mayor there? Isn't there a role for neighborhood agents there, too? If we say "je suis profeseur," we support the teacher, shouldn't he also notice? Shouldn't parents of students who have contributed to the threat be faced with someone who says: don't you do this in the Netherlands? It is not the hardest measure, but it is sometimes one of the most effective measures. Finally, Madam President, I know what it is to be hurt. I know what it's like to get hit when your faith is ridiculed, when you're offended. I know that can be very painful. Still, I'm glad I'm living in this country with that freedom. I have the freedom to profess my faith, the freedom to make political decisions on the basis of that belief and to let my heart speak. The price I pay for that is to get hurt once in a while. That's the price of freedom. I am willing to pay it and I hope that everyone in this country is willing to pay that price, because freedom is scarce and great. We see that in this country. We see it elsewhere in the world. Let's stand for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u200	Mr Segers says that it is not just about hard legislation but also about thinking. Does Mr Segers agree with me that the freedoms and the way in which education is given are not only about Islamic education, but also about other religious movements, such as reformatorial movements or orthodox Jewish movements? I would also like to hear about this, because we saw this week that freedoms are being experienced in two different worlds. Then we are talking about anti-gay statements and the way in which, among other things, it was proclaimed by fellow party minister Slob.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u201	I don't know exactly what he's been saying. Two things here, too. You defend a freedom to differ in substance and to have different opinions. That doesn't have to be my opinion. But there are different views about how you look at marriage, for example. That's a freedom we have. As far as I am concerned, this is part of the freedom of the Netherlands. When it comes to protecting vulnerable young people, young people who want to come out, young people with a homosexual identity, you must stand up for their freedom and security. That's what I stand for. That's what I'm gonna stand for. I've written a few things about that this week and it's coming from the bottom of my heart. Why? Because sometimes it gets very close.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u202	Can you imagine that at the time when the Minister of Education, the Minister of all the children who receive education in the Netherlands, makes such statements and there are reformative schools that say that you should be careful when talking about homosexual preferences, I am a little concerned if that security and freedom of all our children is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u203	Just for the sake of precision, it wasn't a statement from the Minister of Education. He said that there is freedom of education and there is freedom to differ in all kinds of areas. And he stands for security and freedom at every school, indeed also at Jewish Orthodox, reformatorical, Catholic and public schools. He stands for the freedom and security of every young person to be himself, including in his sexual identity. That's what he's standing for. He has spoken clearly about this. If a statement is asked to distance, or is asked to write that you should not have that identity, or you must somehow declare that you disagree with yourself and how you are, then you cannot. If such a statement is requested, it must be amended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u204	Thank you, Mr Segers. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A teacher is beheaded because he prepares his students for a society that can be free, hurtful, beautiful and complex at the same time. Seven people are slaughtered in Vienna and Nice for no reason. In North Mozambique, more than 50 people are driven and beheaded by jihadists on a football field. Uncertainty, fear and new threat are the result, also in the Netherlands, where colleague Wilders is again a target and a teacher has to go into hiding because he has a cartoon on the bulletin board in his classroom. Mr. Chairman. It is good that we are debating today whether new and necessary steps can be taken to shake off the jihadist threat. There is no miracle cure for that. The caliphate may have been largely reduced in Iraq and Syria, but it is constantly following elsewhere. It is good that European Heads of Government are working together to see how the threat and violence can be dealt with. That can be better, that is my belief, if we work more together in Europe. To the satisfaction of my group, the Prime Minister has responded in a balanced manner: do not shy away from stricter border controls and better monitor who enters. He also said: we should not stir up the discord in our society by pointing to individual groups because of their origin or religion. Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the cabinet on four points. The first concerns the role of social media. We know that the suspect in Samuel Paty's murder was incited into his act by social media reports. It seems to me that social media unintendedly and certainly often unintentionally amplify these kinds of messages through their own algorithms. Once you are in the path of a radical message, you will be given it again and again to a greater extent. How can the government, how can the government, how can we ensure that companies do not further facilitate this hate propaganda? That's my first question. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, we have all already discussed the role of education. Teachers have been instructed by us to treat difficult topics such as religious criticism, homosexuality and the Holocaust with their students in a way that contributes to the development of young people into resilient citizens. It is perhaps appropriate to ask teachers themselves whether they are adequately supported and how they want to take action against the continuing intimidation they are victims of. Can the cabinet take the initiative? Mr. Chairman. Then my third question to the cabinet. In the end, we need to identify potential risks as quickly as possible. Whether you enter through Lampedusa or with a business class ticket, we need to know who you are and whether you have evil intentions. Intelligence and security services play a crucial and highly professional role in the Netherlands, as well as police and justice. But also the work in the neighbourhoods is crucial. That is why it is so important, for example, that district agents trained to recognise radicalisation in time can spend time in the neighbourhoods. That is why it is so important that neighbourhoods, playing fields and youth work remain intact, as this is where the connection with young people at risk is made early. If that is the case, I should like to ask the Ministers. Finally. Experience has shown that a sensible set of preventive and repressive measures is ultimately the most effective way of combating radicalisation. The British have an external advisor, an independent advisor, for tackling extremism. Until recently, the Netherlands had an external international legal adviser, who could ask for and advise the cabinet unsolicited. Would it be something to follow the British example in this area and ask such an external advisor to shed light on the mix of repression and prevention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u206	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u207	Madam President. Let me start with a positive one. I am impressed by our Dutch security services. In relation to our neighbouring countries, we are doing much better, but can the Prime Minister guarantee that we will have the best possible hands on our wrists in the future? Have I understood correctly, is it true that our Prime Minister, in response to the horrible events, expressed his full support for President Macron? I would welcome that. Two days after the attack, the French President said that he was considering partially adapting the Schengen Convention, that he wanted stricter border controls and that he wanted to close mosques where hatred is preached. I sincerely hope that Prime Minister Rutte will act as clearly as his French colleague. Macron believes that the implementation of the European proposals that have been under way in Brussels since the 2015 terrorist attacks in Paris should be speeded up. We are talking about common European databases, more exchange of information, strengthening cooperation in tracing and sharing of airline passenger data. How's that going? According to the French President, any security error, at the external borders or in one of the Member States, is a security risk for each of us. Macron also wants us to do more against spreading hate messages and spreading terrorist propaganda on the Internet. Can the Prime Minister promise that concrete proposals will be made by the Netherlands at the European Summit on 10 December? His Austrian colleague Sebastian Kurz went one step further and pointed out the danger of people returning from terrorist areas. How are we going to monitor them closely in the Netherlands? And how many dormant cells or even active cells are there in the Netherlands? Finally, the schools. It seems commonplace to vent and even put pressure on hatred and violence against non-Muslims and moderate Muslims. How's the cabinet gonna fight that? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u208	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In France and Austria the alarms went off again. We saw a horrible series of terrorist attacks in the name of Islam. A stream of innocents poured blood. Teacher Samuel Paty was beheaded because he had shown a cartoon in the classroom. Terrible that he had to pay for it with death. Friday, October 30th, a young Tunisian killed three people in the Notre-Dame of Nice. Vincent Loquès, the singer of the church. Nadine Devillers, a 60-year-old woman who came to say her prayers. Simone Barreto Silva, a 44-year-old woman, was the third victim, a mother of several children. Her last words were: tell my family I love them very much. Afterwards, it was close to the synagogue in Austria. Two women and two men died after a horrible attack. In our country too, the danger is lurking. Last week, a lot of attention was paid to a teacher of the Emmauscollege in Rotterdam. Nota bene in the year of the commemoration of liberation had to hide a teacher. That's one of those words to try again: hiding out. Too sad for words. Mr. Chairman. The value, the civilization at stake here, is that we do not settle differences of opinion with intimidation, brutal violence or decapitation. On differences of opinion, you go into debate, conversation, if necessary to the judge, but not to the fist or worse. Those who want to settle differences of opinion by force do not belong here. That is at the heart of our legal system, and it must be maintained without compromise. Intimidation and threat of violence must not be tolerated. As with debates on previous attacks, I say that we are not in favour of unnecessary harm, and indeed we believe that freedom of expression also has limits. But now is not the time to put the spotlight on that. Because what we actually do is stand on the side of the perpetrators instead of on the side of the victims. Mr. Chairman. Previously, the lure of jihadism appeared to have attraction here as well. More than 300 people went from the Netherlands to Syria and Iraq to help ISIS. We didn't expect it, said many neighborhood and youth workers stunned, but it did. The SGP is concerned that the risk of radical Islam is systematically underestimated. There is less naivety and more decisiveness, because with a few lessons of integration and the sweetening of western freedoms, jihadism does not disappear by itself. Less naivety. Earlier, the Minister for Justice and Security pointed out in Question Time the Threat Picture of Terrorism The Netherlands, in which the threat of jihadist terrorism is well recognised. Very well, but is it now recognised in practice? May I again present the concrete example of that kosher restaurant in Amsterdam, HaCarmel? While everyone with common sense soon realized that there was more going on here, it took forever to recognize that terrorism was in play here, when status holder Saleh A. attacked this restaurant twice, smashed windows and tried to burn the Israeli flag. How come that wasn't recognized at all at first? And how is it prevented from making such an error of assessment again? Mr. Chairman. More action. The SGP sees little concrete implementation of the paragraph in the government agreement on the much stricter approach to jihadism. For example, what has been done specifically to prevent influence from non-free countries through social media or through funding of organisations in the Netherlands? In the SGP's view, the threat of radical Islamic terrorism is also a reason for a much stricter immigration policy, for better surveillance of our borders. How's the cabinet looking at this? Mr President, I shall conclude. The events of the last few weeks have shown that we should not underestimate jihadist terrorism. This creates a great responsibility, including for the cabinet, to show alertness and capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u210	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How appalled we are about all these attacks over the last few weeks. They were targeted attacks, they were revenge on our core values. It is these actions that call for a response. But not unguided. That is why I believe that we must fight the excesses, not the freedom of religion within ourselves. But let it be said right away that I was occasionally disappointed in the reactions. But I think the debate with Mr Azarkan is self-evident. I would particularly like to talk about the breeding ground, the misery resulting from radical Islam, which is still giving way to far too much space in our society. Then I immediately switch to the Threatening statue of the National Coordinator Counterterrorism. Then I read that he has the impression that terrorism legislation as such seems to be affecting its purpose, but that more needs to be done. Then I fully agree with what Mr Segers just said about the Temporary Law on the fight against terrorism. A useful law that can be better used, used more often, but will certainly need to be extended. I share that call. But we must be realistic, because with repression alone we will not win this war. It's gonna take a lot more than that. That is why I am disappointed that I have still not seen any legislation to block the wrong money flows from non-free countries. Why has transparency still not been achieved? We must set limits, as merciless as the terrorists do. We are very concerned that we have not yet tackled Salafism, that even public services have different views on it. On the one hand, the NCTV, which indicates that there is a major threat, but on the other hand, the Social Stability Expertise Unit of the Ministry of Social Affairs, which thinks it is a problem, but only caused by a minority that we might have to deal with. I'm sorry, but a minority we should have something to do with, no, we can't. In a 2015 report, the AIVD made the distinction, in which specific political salafism and jihadsalafism are considered a threat to this society. What are we going to do about that in concrete terms? I still don't see the approach. In order not to provide input that is more of the same, I would like to come back to our own initiative law: the criminalisation of the glorification of terrorist offences. One of the instruments that we think are missing in our toolbox. The misery caused by the terrorists is praised in heaven: it is allowed in the Netherlands. We're even allowed to put out flags for it. How bizarre is that? I really hope that my colleagues will look again today at this initiative law and act with me on that point. Many of the unacceptable exchanges of views go through encrypted data. And how pleased I am that the European Council has finally drawn up a draft proposal that states that the authorities must have access to those data, even if encryption has been used. The Minister of Justice immediately looked at me terrified, because here she comes again, and indeed: are we finally going to support this line? It seems very difficult to bring people who are charmed by terrorist ideas to justice when their own involvement cannot be proved. In this context, I would also like to ask again today about the state of play regarding the bill on the criminalisation of residence in terrorist-controlled territory. I'm asking because two women returned last week. One of them left for IS after the attacks in France. What can we actually charge them if the law that criminalizes the residence is still not in force? Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I'm very concerned that we haven't managed to break the soil yet. That really needs to be more effective. If we are not able to carry out what we stand for and what we want to protect effectively in any way, then we will not win this war. The misery around us once again demonstrates the necessity. And we really don't have time to waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u212	Mrs Van Toorenburg spoke about returners, people who have traveled to Syria, among other things, to fight with Islamic State. We now know that a number of Dutch people are still staying there, including women and young children who are in camps under terrible conditions. Some of them want to come back to the Netherlands. I fully agree with everyone who says: if people return, they must be properly investigated what actions they have committed there, and they must also be prosecuted when there is cooperation in terrorism there, in the Islamic State. But it is also about vulnerable children, often very young children who are now in terrible camps and who are influenced by ideologies that we all disagree with and which we should put in good deradicalisation and reintegration programmes here. Does Mrs Van Toorenburg agree with me that it is in the interests of those children and ultimately also in the interests of the safety of the Netherlands to bring those mothers and children back to the Netherlands as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u213	No, far from it. When Mr Jetten referred to the word 'program', I immediately fell into my head that we in the Netherlands were so crazy to offer one of those women a stage in a programme. One of the women who have returned from IS territory, and oh, oh, oh, oh, she's pathetic! Well, you know I've been the director of a women's prison: a lot of women aren't that pathetic at all. And yeah, I hate that kids get hurt. But I don't want those women back. And I will do everything I can to prevent them from returning here to the Netherlands. What I do want to do, and I hope D66 wants to do with us, is to finally get all those witness statements. Because if we haven't yet settled the legislation on terrorist-controlled territory and if we don't have enough evidence against these people, they'll be walking into our society tomorrow. And I will do everything I can to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u214	It is also very sensible to do everything possible to prevent people who have been involved in terror from being able to walk freely in our society. But what we are doing now is a greater risk to our own security. 'Cause we don't have eyes on some of the people sitting there. We see people walking quietly across the border of Syria and Turkey until the embassy and only then come into the picture. So the big risk for our society is that jihadists will return without knowing, without having a good idea of them, because then they could be a danger to our society. D66 is therefore in favour of bringing these people back and ensuring that we actually collect evidence so that they can be prosecuted and convicted. That is about the adults who made mistakes there. But let us stand up for children who have a Dutch passport and who are now in terrible situations because of wrong choices made by their parents. Please, let us do everything we can to prevent those children from being radicalised for the rest of their lives. It should also appeal to Mrs Van Toorenburg that we do not condemn children for their parents' mistakes and that we do everything we can to ensure that these children find the right path again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u215	Everyone has a heart for these children; that is not the discussion. Mr Jetten sketches a world that can be created, as if we could gather together some evidence. We don't even have the law in order yet, Mr. Jetten. So no, I want them there as long as they can. I want us to try to bring them to justice for genocide. Then it doesn't matter if they have a Dutch passport, because then the Netherlands can always prosecute anyone. That's what I want. I want the trial to take place there. And yes, I would very much like to have those vulnerable children in the Netherlands. We've already managed that with the orphans, but I'm not gonna pay the grand prize. I'm not gonna pay the grand prize because I know we don't have any proof that these ladies are gonna be walking around again. And I may know more than anyone how dangerous they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u216	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Kwint on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u217	Mr. Chairman. A teacher was murdered, Samuel Paty, a father. He left life because he did his job, his indispensable and essential work: preparing young people for their place in society, learning about rights and duties, and learning how they sometimes collide. This man was brutally robbed of his life by a jihadist, a terrorist, a 18-year-old boy who wasn't too young to die a martyr, a warrior for freedom and intolerance. We must not forget Samuel Paty and are obliged to continue to fight for our freedoms. Meanwhile, a teacher is hiding in the Netherlands. Why? Because he is threatened by a mockery that Muhammad is not even depicted on, a mockery that has been hanging there for years without anyone being hurt or offended. We don't know where that teacher is. Unfortunately, we do know that some of the instigators are back in school by now. What kind of signal do we send to society? But above all, what signal do we send to our teachers? That's impossible, isn't it? These people returned to work on Monday after the attack, at the request of the cabinet. They have entered into the conversation, exactly about this attack, as the cabinet has requested. Some did it with cartoons, some did it without cartoons. These people deserve our protection. The SP is not convinced that this is now well enough arranged. When journalists are threatened, a special emergency line is immediately available to ensure that they are well protected in order to be able to do their important work. Shouldn't such a special number, a red button, an emergency line call it what you want to call it "you don't have to be available for schools when things get out of hand there? Because our teachers deserve our protection, just so they can do what they're good at. They teach students about equal rights for all groups in this country, about fundamental rights, about the clashes between them, about the fact that in the end no one can protect you in such a way that you will never be hurt or offended, and about the values of freedom, because that is the foundation of our democracy. They don't do that because every cartoon is funny, not because every cartoon is funny, not because it's funny to be offended or even hurt in the deepest part of you and not because it makes you a nicer person when you deliberately kick everyone's shins all day. That is just what I am saying to Mr Wilders, who just wiped out Muslims and Nazis for another five minutes. Teachers do that because without this freedom, we lose so much more. That is why I would like to say something to the signatories of Imam Elforkani's appeal. Because it sounds so attractive: you adapt the law and then you can no longer be offended! Solved! But know what you're getting into. It is precisely the freedoms that we have that protect minorities, whether you are a Muslim minority or a socialist minority. If those freedoms are restricted, it is only a matter of time before your freedom is also restricted. Finally. This is often about monitoring terrorist and salafistic networks. We are about to finally talk about the undermining nature of the funding of some organisations from non-free countries, thanks to an interrogation committee that was launched after years of struggle by the SP. These are countries that often have or have good trade relations with the Netherlands. The distribution of messages such as those in France and as we have seen in Rotterdam is becoming more and more widespread in public, just via social media. You click the share button and you spread it among your followers. To what extent, for example, are we monitoring who is doing this more and more often? This way you can map radicalisation at an early stage and perhaps pick young people off the streets before a teacher is threatened or attacked. In France, an attack was prevented because a father lost his son. He was scared, he was worried longer and he called the police. And indeed, it turned out that son was planning an attack. What more can we do, together with parents, but also, for example, with key figures in the Islamic community, radicalisation rather than radicalising young people, so that we can avoid this kind of misery? Mr. Chairman. A teacher was murdered. Samuel Paty, a father who let live because he was doing his job. Let us continue this work in his name and in the name of all those who fought for our freedoms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u218	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now turn to Mrs Yesilgöz-Zegerius on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A barbarian has brutally ended Samuel Paty's life. A horrible attack on an innocent teacher who did what he had to do, namely to make his children resilient, to prepare for society, for our free society. And that was too much for his killer. Because that is what Muslim extremists do: rejecting our free society. They find it unacceptable for children to learn to think for themselves, to form their opinions, to be critical, to publish what we want, to sign what we want, whether that's about a politician, a god or a prophet, because that's how you do it in a free country. In recent weeks it has been about France and Austria, countries that are very close to us, not only in distance but also when you look at their way of life, our values, our freedoms. So the fear that something so terrible can happen here is also real. There is no such thing as 100% safety. We know that Muslim extremists will strike back and they may try to do so in the Netherlands. Our free Dutch values are therefore not self-evident. They need to be defended. And we should keep doing that. We are. I would like to mention here a number of laws that we have been able to adopt with each other in recent years to make our country safer. Think of the people who leave our country and travel to Syria to commit themselves to a battle that is completely aimed at destroying everything we stand for. That's what we're saying: we don't need you back, we're gonna pull your passport, we're gonna take your nationality. We're gonna make it a criminal offence to stay in terrorist territory. We make sure that we can work with the Kurds there to get local trial done. As far as the terrorists we have here are concerned, we have been able to ensure that longer retention is possible, that DNA research can be applied. Once people are trapped and released and we don't trust them for a second, we've been able to arrange for them to be followed for life by the security services. Mr. Chairman. We must, of course, also work together within Europe; we cannot do this alone. I am extremely pleased that the Prime Minister has also joined this week's talks with Austria and France. I would very much like a feedback from him. Has he also heard things that we could apply here and that we can learn from? I understand that France, for example, has indicated its intention to ban the Grey Wolves, a nationalist group. Is that something that should and can be done in our country? I understand that it has been stated in Austria that the political Islamist is going to become a criminal offence. Is that something we should want here, too? It is, of course, about the cooperation of our intelligence services, including with the countries around us, so that you have enough information to get ahead of the terrorists. My question to the Minister is whether our intelligence services have all the tools, all the capacity and all the possibilities to ensure that they stay ahead of these steps. In the end, these people, these extremists, do not suddenly wake up with the thoughts. It's coming from somewhere. Many colleagues have already asked questions about online and about what is going on there. We know that's how our young people are really infected with this poison. I would like to know from the Minister what we are doing about this at the moment. I know he's very busy with it. Is there also an intensification when it comes to tackling hate online and calling for you to join political Islam? In doing so, we must also exclude hate preachers from the European Union who spread their poisonous ideas into Dutch society. Does the government agree with the VVD that we should be able to ban these preachers at all times by putting them on a European blacklist so that they simply can no longer travel and that there should no longer be any possibility for religious servants outside the EU to obtain a work permit in the EU and our country? Mr. Chairman. I still have a lot of questions, but I'm gonna finish now. We owe it to Samuel Paty, to our teachers, to our journalists, to our cartoonists to continue to work for freedom and to defend it without any nuance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u220	Thank you. Then I have Mr Jetten and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u221	The VVD and D66, two liberal parties, are both very strong in my opinion for this freedom of expression. However, we sometimes differ on the extent to which you must also restrict that freedom of expression. I am very curious to see how Mrs Yeşilgöz is now looking at the fact that we have banned group termination in the Netherlands. Is it still a position of the VVD that should remain so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u222	Mr Jetten is quite right, of course, that we are side by side when it comes to defending our freedoms. And at the same time it sometimes, unfortunately, means that in some place you have to limit freedom to protect the greater good of the freedoms of all of us. That's the trade-off you make every time. I think I know what Mr Jetten is going to ask about the balance he is looking for. But that's exactly the balance I'm looking for. Sometimes it is justified to say on the one hand: I limit your freedoms because otherwise you destroy the freedoms of so many people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u223	I think that is the right starting point: how do you guard the freedom of one and where does the other begin? We have often seen in recent years that several VVDs advocated the abolition of that group termination. Your predecessor Taverne did that a few years ago. It was also colleague Bente Becker recently who said: no one really has the right to feel offended. I think that is an exciting concept, because we have included this group pledge in our legislation to ensure that we can sometimes also protect minorities. If Muslims are offended as a group, if Christians are offended as a group or if we are offended as gays as a group, because we also know that not every individual is able to stand up for himself when he is addressed, if he is offended, if he is restricted in his freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u224	I fully agree with what my colleague Bente Becker said: no one has the right not to feel offended or insulted. We live in a free society. That's where anyone can express themselves. We're in politics. We are also very often addressed by people who disagree with us, who make cartoons of us, who like it. Sometimes that hits me, but point. At the moment you think: this is now threatening, this is now so intimidating that my safety is in danger. But if every time something terrible happens we immediately move the discussion to "so we have to look at how far that freedom of expression goes, so we have to look at how we can even better protect people from any kind of criticism or insult," that is really the wrong trend. Mr. Chairman. I did not end my speech for nothing with: let us stand for that freedom without nuance. That "without nuance" is what matters to me; that is what matters. And then we still live, thank God, as a liberal and atheist, in a rule of law where you can always go to court when you have doubts as to whether you feel you are not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u225	Finally, Mr President. I also think that people shouldn't be constantly offended. If people do feel offended, I also try to tell them: grow a bit of a thick skin too, engage the conversation, don't rush into a cramp. But we also see that sometimes you can put whole groups on the same page, that you can make statements as "less Moroccans." We saw it after the attacks in Orlando, that at the commemoration, even of the terrible attack on a gay bar, there were very big protests in which there was indeed insult to gays and lesbians. At that time, I think it is important that people can also go to court and say: this is an insult to groups; this is also an insult to people who belong to that group. You should be able to stop that from time to time. In this sense, it is also a great responsibility to deal wisely with freedom of expression and to be able to restrict it at times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u226	Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Jetten and I are not so far apart, perhaps about whether this debate today and this issue is the time to look for that limit. I think the debate should be about how we make sure our children are resilient. How do we prevent hate images from our country? How can we keep the poison away? But of course Mr Jetten is right that on the other hand there are also people who discriminate, who attack entire groups. Then we find each other there to say: we do not accept that either. That border is sometimes very complicated, and fortunately we have our rule of law for that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u227	When you hear Mrs. Zegerius like that, all the problems are due to people of migrant origin. I heard her colleague this week say that integration has failed. I found that interesting, too. Well, it's true that last December, January, in Duindorp, we saw that there was an evening after night. They weren't people with a migrant origin. Bombs were thrown at cops; it was horrible. I know that Mr Van Dam has expressed his views on this on a number of occasions. If I had to believe him, it'd be like Fallujah. In Urk we saw 100 young people, not even with a migrant return, attack the town hall. I can't hear anyone about it, but less than two weeks ago, a 73-year-old man in Arnhem was beaten to death. A former teacher and department leader. Beaten to death. Why don't I hear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u228	We have not only debated all these issues, but I have also spoken out on social media. I have made proposals when it comes to security in your own neighborhood and when it comes to groups that threaten that security. Even if you look specifically at the backgrounds I have even named it here in this room you can see different backgrounds. You have to name them if you're going to be able to do it effectively. I have noticed all day that Mr Azarkan is upset that this is about the danger of political Islam. But that's what it is. We're standing here because a teacher was beheaded by a Muslim extremist. We are here because a teacher in the Netherlands had to go into hiding by Muslim extremists. That's what this is about. That is an ideology that infiltrates our society, and I want to counter that. The moment something else terrible happens in our country, I'm about the first to act. The President can confirm that. I do that with oral questions, which I'm not always allowed to ask. I want to debate it. I'm here to introduce myself. Selective indignation is never a good idea, Mr. Azarkan, nor is it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u229	Definitely not. If there was a price on that, Mrs. Sej...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u230	Yeşilgöz it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u231	I'm trying to pronounce it, but my Turkish isn't as good as yours, I guess. Then Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius would win that prize with distance. I hear her on many other subjects, but not on such subjects. I hear her about Paris, but I can't hear her about a teacher who was beaten to death in Arnhem, not so far from here. I do not hear her indignantly say: what would it be like, are these people not integrated? I know why that is. I know that if they were young people with an Islamic background, this would be discussed here today in the debate. Then Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius would have thrown them out of the country. That is the truth and that is the selectivity applied by Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u232	There was not necessarily a question, but I can help Mr Azarkan very easily. The fact that he can't hear it is because he blocked me on Twitter, for example. If he just listens for a second... Oh, he blocked Mr. Wilders, too. If he just listens to all the debates that we have here where he is present and is equally attentive to what we are actually doing here, instead of turning off his stickhorses a little bit, he knows that we stand up to any injustice, but that we do name what is going on. Today is about political Islam. If that makes Mr Azarkan uncomfortable, I understand and I am happy to help him. But that remains the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u233	I heard Mr Yeşilgöz express her thanks to God, and I appreciate that; that is beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u234	Slip of the tongue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u235	It's in the Acts. I have a factual question when it comes to those hate preachers. It should be blacklisted, but I also heard that all preachers of faith from outside the EU should be banned. Does that apply to a Catholic priest from Chile, a Jewish rabbi from New York or... I mean, is it categorical? Any preacher of faith from outside the EU should be stopped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u236	I think this is something we should look at. The proposal concerns the following. We see that so many imams from outside the EU come here and proclaim hatred. We want to stop that. We have also seen in recent years that people from other religions are coming here who do not agree with our European free standards and values. So we should look carefully at that. I am not saying 'it applies to everyone', but I am not saying that it could not apply to everyone. I can also imagine that if you don't do it for everyone, this is a legal problem. So I would very much like to look at how we prevent this, because that is the core, that is the message that people from outside are coming here and especially infecting our young people with the poison that is going to be in their heads and with which they are going to radicalise. That's the point. I like to look together at how we can achieve that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u237	For all the clarity: when it comes to hate talk, it doesn't matter what belief or ideology it is. If you come here to sow hatred or encourage violence, there should be no place for that. So then you have to make a distinction based on "yes, unless." People can travel freely to the European Union if they have a good reason for doing so and if that happens in a legal way. "Unless" is then the exclusion: unless you come here to sow hatred and spout poison. Then you should draw a line. That is true of everything and everyone. But if you say that there should never again be a preacher of faith from outside the EU, then I think you are holding back a number of potential friends and people with very good thoughts with whom we could benefit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u238	I think that Mr Segers is right to raise a point that we should look closely at. I'm suggesting two things. First of all, a black list of hate images that we don't want here anyway. Secondly, I would really like to have it if I were to say from a political point of view that we in Europe, in the Netherlands, have an imam education where imams are trained with the European standards and values that prevail here. But because there is no such thing, or hardly is, people come in from the outside with their ideas they take. I want to find a solution to that. So also a blacklist and saying: build up the ability to give a work permit and make sure that you are here, in Europe, and that is what Macron has also called, perhaps the Prime Minister can say something about this. Perhaps he has a centre where people are trained with our European values, so that we also know what our children are learning, obviously within the limits of freedom of faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u239	Of course, you always hope that this kind of debate will also contribute to a progressive understanding of how we can best combat jihadism. I have a question for Mrs Yeşilgöz on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u240	We're gonna practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u241	It was just about the trial of IS fighters here or there, so to speak. You talked about taking away nationality, for example. But then there's a question. We always learn that it's about keeping an eye on the people who threaten us. This has gone wrong in Austria; unfortunately, this has not been done in France. Now you can take away the nationality of those people and say: if those people do not come here and are not tried here. But doesn't that increase the risk of people disappearing from sight? That's genuinely something I'm afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u242	I understand that, but Mr Van Ojik did not quote me as I said. I didn't say as long as they didn't come here and as long as they weren't tried here. I don't want them to come back here again, but I do want them to be tried there. If we take away their nationality, it does not mean that they will simply cease to exist or disappear. The intelligence services, the security services, the people who make the files for the lawsuits, they're still on top of that. We have now also seen reports, assessments of the laws we are talking about, which show that those laws, even if you cannot apply them massively, but we already knew that when we adopted those laws, they are effective at times when you do. Those people haven't returned either. So I think it is very wise to put everything in place that these people will never return here, but at the same time everything must be done to ensure that they are tried there, because nobody wants them to be able to go about their business with impunity. So it's both cases, but I really don't want them here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u243	One of the lessons I have learned about how things have been in recent years is that we can say that we want people to be tried there, but that this is not happening. In fact, people who were more or less safe there in some kind of refugee camps, which were particularly protected by the Kurds, were able to escape. Those Kurds said: we do not do that anymore. So people have vanished off the radar. What I hear now is: if they do not come here and if they can, we will take away their nationality. This can only happen if people have more nationalities. Isn't it the risk that, in some kind of urge to be safe, we shuffle off the problem and therefore lose sight of the people it's about to lose? Should we not, therefore, also look again at the kind of solutions that we have advocated and chosen in recent years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u244	The risk to our national security is at the moment when those people come here and whether or not they are tried, or if we try to bring them to justice, so much greater. That's so much more intense than you say: I'll take your nationality away and I'll see to it that you can be tried there. It's not like anyone there can be tried. It is not so that no one is tried there; the trials continue. Mr Van Ojik has much more experience than I do when it comes to foreign affairs; of course he is right about that. To make good agreements with the Kurds in order to contribute to this is another step; I fully share that, but the court cases run there. People are being tried. I think the danger to our security is so much greater than when I say "I'm taking your nationality." Perhaps Mr Van Ojik has read our election programme and wants to be able to take it away. In case anyone has only one nationality, I know you still have to work on certain laws, but we're in favour of that. We just don't want these people back here; we never want them back. And I don't want them to get away with it. After all, so I conclude, where they have committed their actions, the files are. There is the best chance of real trial and also of long prison sentences. That is also one of the reasons why not only me, but also the victims of these terrorists want it to happen there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u245	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The attacks in Europe, Paris, Nice and Vienna affect us all. The French teacher Paty was murdered to show a mockery, and tomorrow it is five years since that horrible attack took place in the Bataclan in Paris. In Rotterdam and Den Bosch, teachers are threatened and have to go into hiding because of showing a cartoon. These events affect our open society in the heart. The wretched thing is that it's the culprits who do that that's what it's about. Teachers should be able to teach students our democratic values free of fear. This is a crucial part of citizenship education. The Animal Party fully supports our teachers, but also the cartoonists, columnists and politicians who defend freedom of expression. Threats and violence are totally unacceptable and can never, under any circumstances, be justified. We have a duty to take these threats seriously and to deal with the bereaved. Sometimes they are known by name and by name, but the declarations remain in place and the operators are free to go their own way. That's indigestible. Mr. Chairman. Those columnists, cartoonists and teachers can only do their job if they feel supported by the rule of law. I want to know whether the government agrees with me and will implement it more than it is now, because it goes too often wrong. I would like to hear from the Minister of Justice what priority these declarations are given and how it is possible that declarations often remain and will not be picked up until they are in the media, because that is what is happening. I can see the Minister looking surprised. I can give him examples of that later, if he wants. I will not do that in this debate. The purpose of the terrorists is to sow fear, anger and division. As politicians, we have a responsibility not to raise that fear further with ever-increasing anti-terrorism measures, because these measures affect all of us, the whole of society. Large-scale, well-prepared attacks have fortunately stayed out in the Netherlands in recent years. The NCTV states that the threat at the moment comes mainly from radicalised loners operating provisionally, as was the case in France, but also last year in the Netherlands. However, there are already plans to further strengthen the international security structure. It is reported that the cabinet wants Europe to have more powers to intercept encrypted conversations. I do not read about this in yesterday's letter, but I would like to hear from the Minister whether or not that is the case, because large-scale data collection and censorship are not the solution. The cabinet creates false security. The uncomfortable truth is that attacks by loners can never be eliminated 100%, not even with unlimited access to their digital networks. Radicalisation can be tackled much better at source, by focusing much more on deradicalisation programmes and by taking much firmer action against the foreign influence that the net was about. It is also necessary to invest in the district agent, as ears and eyes of the neighborhood. Neighborhood agents are the link between the neighborhood and the police. The neighborhood cop's listening ear works better than the bugging ear of the detectives. Extremistic thinking thrives when people have no perspective. That is why we need to invest much more in equal opportunities and in tackling discrimination and integration in the Netherlands. The President of France is calling for stricter border controls in the European Union. The Netherlands seems to feel that way, but there too, the creation of false security must be avoided. By pretending to be able to prevent another attack by building an even higher wall around Europe and by restricting civil liberties, we feed distrust of migrants and refugees. The root cause will not be addressed. This is not the way to solve terrorism, but to increase hatred. Mr. Chairman. I have one final comment to make. I'm having another debate right now. So I'm afraid I can't stay here until the end, but I'll stay as long as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u247	I know, Mr. Wassenberg. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u248	Mr. Chairman. This debate is about freedom of expression and about the massacre in Paris. There is a danger that the debate will focus solely on freedom of expression. That's what happened. We can catch flies between ourselves, but that's not the point. Our freedom of speech looks fine. There is no minister to be found who throws Gregory Nekschot in jail one more time. Nor is there ever a minister to be found. He does look out to put a similar process of Wilders in the scaffolding. So why don't you leave that freedom of speech out of the picture? This is a ritual neck-cutter, a ritual head-cutter. That's the point. That's the pattern we need to break. The Rotterdam lecturer who went into hiding is wise. It's a disaster. Firstly, it is a disaster to live without freedom of speech, without opinions that go back and forth and be changed and weighed into opinions. Freedom of expression is the lifeblood of democracy. What many teachers don't know is that Muslim girls, like the girls who came to Rotterdam's hiding lecturer, have been in the grip of salafistic weekend schools for years. Teachers suspect it, because if they wave out lively students on Friday, they will get these students back paralyzed on Monday. It's like the joy of asking questions over the weekend has been hammered away with instructions about commandments and prohibitions. The danger lies in the 100 or so salafistic Koran schools which in the Netherlands inject thousands of Muslim children, in ages between 4 and 16 years old, with the dangerous ideology called salafism. Each drop contains the following hostile message: turn away from this sinful land with its apostates. The children get the message from the cradle that they are different, better. Whoever grows up like this is prepared to harm creation. This is disaster number two. How many wake-up calls are still needed in Paris, Nice or Vienna? In the Netherlands, a teacher can now be silenced without committing an attack. The fear of self-censorship is a fourth disaster. "Delete the Salafist organizations, which legitimize the violence under the skin and seduce our children to follow ideological ideas with deeds." It is wonderful to finally not fall into election rhetoric and political propaganda. These were the words of Ahmed Marcouch. He calls for action. Yeah, of course you'll get to FvD. What needs to be done, and as soon as possible? Stop papping and soaking in consultation groups. That's what we learned the last hearing. Listen to Mr. Schoof. Keep the imams in that meeting out of the door. The hope that they keep their grass roots quiet is illusory. You've lost your pennies, they're playing doubles, it's no good at all, and you're being taken by the nose. Stop padding and keep wet through that dialogue. Get the Code of Criminal Law out of the closet. We do not need to introduce new legislation on education. You gotta smoke those salafists out. You have to infiltrate them. She's got to put the hot breath in their necks. You know they're there. There are signs that in those hate mosques and hate schools propaganda is being made against the apostates and against the unbelievers. It is a criminal offence to do so in an organised context. The school or mosque is not a hate factory, but simply a criminal organization. You can then use Article 140 of Criminal Law and Article 126l to dismantle the whole thing. You hang the school full of bugs, and so do you with the mosque. Never before has an imam, a preacher or a teacher been brought to justice because of religiously grim lyrics. You can count on your fingers what they've been up to. It's amazing, isn't it? It's because you don't understand the language. So you have to infiltrate, monitor and tap their operations and collect evidence. Then it's simple: then the tent closes. Then you'll declare forfeit. Those who cause it will be brought to justice. It sends a signal to the community. They need to know that they're being kept in the dark. It's as simple as that. Mr. Chairman. Save what's left to save. Then start by saving the child's soul. Make sure our cities are spared from madrassas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u249	Thank you. Mr. Hiddema, Mr. Kwint has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u250	Excuse me, I had to take a walk. Mr Hiddema spoke about the carotid artery of the free debate and how it should be designed in schools. How, according to Forum within a school community, can pupils' exchanges of views be best protected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u251	We as Forum, and I as I am, would not know. If I was in a schoolroom where a teacher was debating with a student, I wouldn't know how to have a warning finger by saying: this discussion is going in the wrong direction. I don't want a blockage in a discussion like this. How do you propose that the Forum position should guide this discussion? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u252	I was particularly looking for a solution to the question of how we can ensure that these teachers can freely engage in that conversation with students. I welcome what Mr Hiddema says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u253	Well, the question "how" is a difficult one. That's a hell of a thing. You have to come as a teacher of a good house to, when it comes to a class of a certain cut, come up with lyrics like the one I'm coming up with right now. I'm just calling it a cross street. I don't think that teacher like him has to go to school the next day completely uninhibited into the classroom. He'll check the vote first. Those kids are going home with it. There you can find a father who may know from some foreign imam, an expert, or Joost, who is looking for support to tell the community that what that teacher is doing there must stop. The father says, "I've heard it from my own child, and it has to stop." We must protect that teacher by making sure that the people who are attacking him are prosecuted. It's sending a signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u254	Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u255	That gives the signal that you don't have to go underground. And if you're scared, the police will come along. Then those people will see the authority one day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u256	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u257	There's no harm in that. Pedagogical is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u258	Indeed, I think it would be very good if we showed as a Chamber: wait a minute, it is a totally wrong signal if a teacher has to go into hiding while the students who started it are back in school. I think we agree on that. That does mean that as a teacher you must have the freedom and feel to enter into that conversation. Then there must be no herd of angry parents in the schoolyard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u259	Yeah, I agree, but it's easy for us to talk. We've heard a lot of signals from teachers saying, "I'm gonna keep my head down, I'm not gonna let it go."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u260	Mr. Kwint has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u261	Yeah, but I know some of those teachers who also had their own address taken offline. Why was that? Because Mr. Baudet banged a school assignment online out of nowhere, with the call "let that teacher fire." That man who got a whole collection of death threats all over him...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u262	Well, thank God you know those teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u263	Mr. Hiddema, let me just...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u264	Now I really want to finish my sentence, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u265	You make really long sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u266	Yes, you finish your sentence. You will be given the floor to respond. First Mr. Kwint. Let me finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u267	Mr. Chairman. I can keep it pretty short. Does Mr Hiddema agree with me and with the SP that such a free conversation ensures that we a ensure that the teacher is safe and b that we do not have to push a teacher who once says something that is uncomfortable to us immediately in front of the bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u268	Of course not! It shouldn't get weirder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u269	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u270	Throwing a teacher in front of the bus? From my child's soul, I've played with that thought, but I'm in parliament now. Throwing a teacher in front of the bus? Here comes Mr. Baudet: he did it again! Fortunately, Mr Kwint knows that teacher in question. You can reassure them immediately, because Mr. Baudet never asked: will you tell those teachers? We just wanted to start an investigation into the teaching material. That's the point. We'll never throw a teacher in front of the bus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u271	Well, then you've made that clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u272	It's not in our program, but it's not coming either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u273	No. Thank you, Mr. Hiddema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u274	Well, then, pais and love.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u275	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u276	Thank you, Mr President. A people who succumb to tyrants will lose more than body and good, for then the light will go out. A very famous rule of a resistance hero. Mr. Chairman. How democratic and state-of-the-art a society is can be measured by how well its fundamental rights are guaranteed. One of the fundamental rights of a decent society is freedom of expression. This freedom also includes opinions that you really do not agree with at all, that barn or sometimes even hurt. This is also confirmed by the European Court of Human Rights. This includes mockery, and the freedom to mock religion, with power, even with us, so politicians: that is a rule of law. If you think it's going too far, you go to court. Never, ever, use force or threats to make your point clear. The attack in France is therefore nothing less than a direct attack on our rule of law. This cowardly terror, from extreme Islamism, has already caused far too many victims. That is why we must stop this happening in the Netherlands. I therefore call for measures to protect freedom of expression, but also to be realistic to implement. My questions to the Minister are as follows. One. Is there currently a list of extremist preachers from abroad and, if so, how many of them have taken the visa? Question two. The Task Force on Unwanted Foreign Financing indicates that it does not have enough capacity. What's the Cabinet gonna do to fix this? Three. What is the current status of the plan to create a national imam training scheme that fits within the framework of our democratic rule of law? Four. Is it legal for all spiritual servants and directors of prayer houses in the Netherlands to be in possession of a vog, an explanation of behavior, to perform their duties? And finally, my final question. Why do administrators and politicians mainly talk to mosque authorities? Why is it not more often asked for the opinion of secular representatives from migrant groups? After all, they know what giving in to radical Islam can lead to. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u277	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-11-12-tweedekamer-4.u278	Let me take a look at the Prime Minister. We're gonna suspend for half an hour.
