ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Bergkamp, Mr Özütok and Mr Van den Hul declaring that there is grounds for considering a proposal to change the Constitution to add disability and heterosexual or homosexual orientation as a non-discrimination ground. I would like to welcome the initiators. Typically, your support could take place in box K. Unfortunately, the corona measures cannot do that, but I assume that you are well supported behind the scenes by those same people. I would also like to welcome the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It will assume the role of advisor to the Chamber in the examination. The first term on the part of the Chamber took place on 5 December 2019. Today we are discussing first-term and second-term responses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u2	I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp for her first-term answers. Next, the other initiators. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank all the spokesmen for the attention they have paid to our legislative proposal during the written input and the first term. We will answer all questions in our first term as best we can. Before I begin my reply, I would like to take this opportunity to thank a number of people, first of all, of course, the initiators of whom we have adopted this bill. These are Mr Boris van der Ham van D66, Mrs Naïma Azough and Mrs Liesbeth van Tongeren van GroenLinks, and Mrs Anja Timmer and Mr Pierre Heijnen van de PvdA. Also a word of thanks to our support. In addition to those who have already dealt with this in the past, these are now Ranoe Bishoen, Anjel Punte and Jaap van der Heijden, policy staff of respectively D66, the PvdA and GroenLinks. We would also like to thank Bureau Legislation for the legal points on the i. It really helped us a lot. Finally, a word of thanks to the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations, Mr Gerard Boon and Mr Paul van Sasse of Ysselt. It was a pleasure to spar with them about our Constitution. In addition, a number of interest groups have been involved with us for a very long time, including Each (in), interest organisation for people with disabilities, and the COC. Mr. Chairman. Then something about the answer itself. We have chosen to speak to all three, the three of us strong. First of all, I will take you into account in the length of this legislative process, the value and symbolism of this legislative amendment and the legal and technical aspects. My colleague Mr van den Hul will then comment on the sober nature of the Constitution, the other non-discrimination grounds and the age of discrimination, following Mr Krol's amendment. Finally, Mr Özütok will answer questions about positive discrimination, the scope of the concept of "sex," the interaction between the Constitution and other laws, and the last category of variety. I told my colleagues that an initiative law is actually a bit of painting a painting. You're busy, and every time you see something different, you get a new idea. But I hope today we can conclude that the painting is finished. We shall, moreover, make a second-term appreciation of the two amendments which have been tabled, so that we will also give the applicants the opportunity to reflect further on them in their second term, if necessary. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first question. It came down to, "Why did it take so long?" There are reasons for that. These were questions from Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Bosma and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. It is true that the draft law was submitted in 2010, but I must also note that, after the Council of State's opinion was issued at the end of 2012, none of the original applicants were still in the Lower House. I myself have worked with four colleagues, including Mr Jasper van Dijk, to abolish the single-fact structure, an amendment to the General Equal Treatment Act. Then there are two elections between those two colleagues and I have worked with them to amend the General Law on Equal Treatment in order to explain the discrimination against intersex persons and transgender persons. Then we immediately started with this bill. You will understand: you do not just change the constitution; that is a careful process. But I agree with the proposers that some haste is now required. The aim of these initiators is to have completed the first reading during this period, so that the second reading can take place during the next cabinet period. The one about the trajectory of time. Then about the value of the law amendment. This bill aims to explicitly add two non-discrimination grounds to Article 1 of the Constitution, namely disability and sexual orientation. First of all, let me say that it is very honorable to come up with a proposal at all to amend our Constitution. The Constitution is a translation of the historical development of social values in the Netherlands. As initiators, we consider it all the more special to be able to contribute to equality and to the fight against discrimination against people with disabilities, homosexuals, bisexuals and lesbians. If I had to sum up in a nutshell what this bill is about, it is that we recognise and anchor equivalence and non-discrimination on these two grounds. It is a strong signal to society of these two core values. We also hope, of course, that we will monitor and strengthen this with each other and that we will encourage further policies and legislation. But I can imagine that there are quite a few questions about that that requires a somewhat comprehensive analysis, and I am going to do that. The first article of our Constitution is about the principle of equality and the non-discrimination ground. I liked the fact that former Minister of the Interior Van Thijn said at the time of the parliamentary procedure of our current Constitution that he saw Article 1 as the flag on the new Constitution for a reason. That's what the initiators see. Then in 2001 the motion-Rouvoet c.s. Mr Rouvoet pointed out that it was a logical conclusion to the legislation announced at the time, assuming that disability should be a ground for action in Article 1 of the Constitution. That's how we see it. If we look at disability and sexual orientation, we have also indicated this earlier........................................................................................................................................................... Because when it comes to social acceptance, of course there is still a world to be won. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the added value of this bill. We are pleased that the Commission has given its opinion on non-discrimination grounds, i.e. the Committee on Legal Protection. It has actually given advice or answered the question: what is the added value of including one or a few non-discrimination grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution? The Constitution is, of course, traditionally there to protect nationals from the government. Article 1 of the Constitution focuses on the legislator, the administration and the judge. In each of these cases, it has its own legal effect. Let me begin with the first added value, namely that it may mean that there is legal protection against the legislator. It is seen as a source of specific legislation. It is also a standard in the development of further legislation. You could see it as a hint to the government: hey be careful, make sure you have a minimum level of facilities and rights. So it's a legal guarantee. That is the first added value. It also provides legal protection against the administration. It is often also part of the plenary debate, of the debate between the cabinet and the House of Representatives. It is also an incentive for policy development and it also includes social legal protection. For individuals and groups, Article 1 of the Constitution and the inclusion of grounds therein is very important. It has also been said that it is a legal basis that can serve as a social beacon. In other words, social groups can also develop and stimulate. That's what we see as social legal protection. The third point is judicial protection. The Committee concludes that the inclusion of one or more grounds does not result in an immediate increase in the legal protection of that land. But what it does do is that a judge can assign some weight to it in individual cases. Legal protection contains a large part of the value of our bill. But there's more, of course. There is also a need for society. Look at people with disabilities. There is still discrimination. Then the people who want to walk hand in hand. We have often had a debate about this here. We see that people are still discriminated against on the basis of their sexual orientation. So there is this social necessity and we think that our bill contributes to the recognition and recognition of these people. Moreover, inclusion also has an effect in social traffic, a legal term for how we deal with each other in all kinds of different situations. We see that Article 1 of the Constitution is often invoked. It is not the case that people with the General Law run equal treatment under their arms. If something happens, you will hear regularly: "Hey, that is discrimination and that is not allowed by our Constitution. We must be treated equally." So that's the value. In addition, it means international recognition of the values that we have high regard for in the Netherlands. We are certainly not the first country to anchor this. More and more countries have taken the step or taken steps to anchor disability and sexual orientation in the Constitution. Think of Sweden, Portugal, New Zealand and Bolivia. Mr. Chairman. My third block is about symbolism. Maybe it's good to tell the MPs which blocks I have. I still have the block of symbolism. Then I go into a number of legal-technical aspects, and many of the questions asked are addressed, including a reflection on social acceptance, ranking, pedosexuality, horizontal effect, the question of whether chronic disease is covered and the Embryowet, which has also been asked about. Then you know that, Mr President, as well as hopefully the colleagues in the Chamber. Questions have been asked about symbolism. Among other things, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Bosma asked whether it has added value or whether it is only symbolic. We can see that the Constitution certainly has a symbolic function, but that is something other than merely symbolic value. Let me put that into practice. When we ask people what article of law they know, Article 1 of the Constitution is often mentioned. That's one of the most famous articles. It is also quickly called upon, as I have just said, in social traffic. I have also explained what values we see even more when it comes to legal safeguards, administrative safeguards and legal protection by the judge who may be there. Mr. Chairman. Are we there? No. We therefore agree with Mr Van der Molen, who said: you can write it down nicely in the Constitution, but we are not yet with it. Mrs Kuik also stopped by saying: we can lay down a lot of things in the Constitution, but if we do not then make a supplementary policy, we will not win anything with this bill. We agree, but we do think you shouldn't leave one to do the other. I have just said that it is a standard for legislation, a source for legislation, and an incentive to come up with policies. The two can then reinforce each other, but of course supplementary policies are always necessary. The cabinet has, of course, also come up with a number of action programmes and policy papers. So much is already being developed in the field of policy. Think of Unlimited participation! and Full life of the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport and the Emancipation Note Principles in practice of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science. So there is a lot going on in terms of policy, but we think you should not leave one to do the other and that they can even strengthen each other. Mr. Chairman. Let me turn to the legal and technical aspects of the legislative proposal. The first block is a reflection on social acceptance. Mr Van der Molen pointed out that the Constitution is not an instrument for achieving something in society when it comes to an indication, but that it should follow a broad social acceptance that is already there. The Constitution could then be a translation of that. He asked us to reflect on that. That sentence alone deserves to reflect on. We do agree with Mr Van der Molen. In our view, a constitutional change, certainly from Article 1, should really follow broad social acceptance that discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation is not permitted. It must have been proven. We also call that constitutional maturity. There are several things that indicate that it is crystallized, that we do not accept discrimination on grounds of disability and sexual orientation. Let me give you some examples. By the way, there are many examples in the pleading and also in the report. For the concept of disability, I am thinking of the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child, Articles 21 and 26 of the EU's fundamental rights and the adoption of the Rouvoet and others motion. from 2001 that disability should be part of Article 1 of the Constitution. Even if we look at sexual orientation, there is a social acceptance that should not be discriminated against on that basis. Think of the inclusion of homosexual and heterosexual orientation in the General Law on equal treatment in 1993, the opening up of marriage to same-sex couples from 2001, the report of the 2016 National Action Programme against Discrimination and many government emancipation letters. In other words, the constitutional change has not come to fruition. It is a translation of a broad social acceptance. However, it is important to point out that the acceptance of this discrimination and the acceptance of legislation and treaties do not mean that social acceptance exists. That's two very different things. Mr. Chairman. Then about the hardness of the ranking of the grounds, that is: is there an order in it? Mr Jasper van Dijk indicated that there are now five grounds. There's gonna be two more. Imagine the bill coming through first and second reading. Is it true that sexual orientation has less value compared to the first ground, religion? Is there a particular order in there? Perhaps it is appropriate to indicate the ratio behind the grounds currently contained in Article 1 of the Constitution. These are personal characteristics that, on the one hand, you cannot renounce, on the other hand, it is about race, gender, disability and sexual orientation, it is possible to give up physically or only involuntarily. If you renounce it, it will affect your personal integrity. I am talking about religion, belief in life and political orientation. All these grounds are related to a history of exclusion, disadvantage and sometimes even persecution. That is the ratio behind Article 1 of the Constitution. Is there an order in there? No, there is no question of a legal order or order of precedence, resulting in an absolute priority of one or the other distinction. Mr. Chairman. Then on the subject of pedosexuality. Our initiative law concerns the addition of two grounds, their explication, to the five already existing grounds of Article 1 of the Constitution. It's about disability and sexual orientation. The term "sexual orientation" is widely used internationally: sexual orientation. For example, the Human Rights Council of the United Nations and the European Parliament use it. The term "sexual orientation" is therefore well in line with international terminology. Countries such as New Zealand, Mexico, Ecuador, Bolivia, South Africa, Malta, Kosovo, Portugal, Fiji and Sweden have also explicitly incorporated the ground "sexual orientation" into their Constitution. Questions have been asked by Mr Bishop and Mr Krol on the breadth of the concept of sexual orientation. Certain limits need to be guarded. First of all, on the letter of amendment. We have chosen to follow the government and replace the concept of heterosexual or homosexual orientation with "sexual orientation." The cabinet has indicated that they will do the same for the General Law on Equal Treatment and, in my view, the Code of Criminal Law. This was in response to the motion by Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mrs Buitenweg and Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius who asked the government whether there could be a more inclusive term for equal treatment under the General Law. Three experts, including the Human Rights College, have been asked to reflect on this. In fact, the common thread in all these opinions was: yes, there is a more inclusive term possible, namely "sexual orientation." This also applies to Article 1 of the Constitution. A more inclusive term is important for the proposers, because we're not doing this for nothing. We want to increase recognition for the people who it is about, so that homosexuals, bisexuals and lesbians can recognize themselves in it. In the terms "hetero-" or "homosexual orientation" there is something of dichotomy: one or the other. Bisexuality doesn't. In addition, lesbians can sometimes recognize themselves less in the concept of "homosexuality." It's an international term. It's a more inclusive term. But what consequences does this have for pedosexuality? Let me make one thing clear: we consider pedosexual behavior unacceptable. Pedosexual behavior is punishable now and it remains. Our initiative law doesn't change that at all. In fact, this applies to all the grounds in Article 1 of the Constitution. When something's criminal, it stays that way. Let me give you another example. If you think you have to set fire to a mosque, church or synagogue from your religion, it is punishable and will continue to be punishable. I hope that I have been able to deal with any concerns about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u4	Before you continue, there is an interruption by Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u5	I'm afraid that didn't quite work out, because the term "sexual orientation"... we can say that pedophilia, pedosexuality, is and remains a criminal offence. Yes, but by definition, that term sneaks into it, that option. So someone who is in favour of this can appeal to the Constitution and say: this is prohibited in the law, but the law is lower than the Constitution and the Constitution is violated by that law. In other words, the solution of Mrs Bergkamp, the proposers, is not a real solution, not a legal solution, but a source of problems and processes. That is the great concern behind our question, even from a legal point of view. Then it is not just about pedophilia or pedosexuality, but also about other forms of sexuality that are not tolerated. They're all included. In literature it is called "overinclusion." Then it includes more than you actually want to allow socially, legally. Does Mrs Bergkamp agree with me that it is necessary to look for a better, more comprehensive wording and that it should be enshrined in the Constitution, so that the legal prohibition cannot be called into question by recourse to the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u6	I understand the question very well, but I do not agree with Mr Bishop's interpretation of it. Now, when we look at the literal text of Article 1 of the Constitution, we see that it ends with: and other grounds as well. If you want it to be purely legal, everything that is discriminatory will fall under it. Only, I think Mr Bishop forgets that we have a general law on equal treatment. It must indicate when discrimination is permissible or not. The Code of Criminal Law continues to determine when something is criminal or not. And in the end, the judge decides whether there's any criminal behavior. This doesn't change anything. In addition, it is also good to give a little more coloration to the treatment of this. I have indicated that the aim of the proposers, when it comes to "sexual orientation" as an inclusive term, is to talk about adult living people who have a different orientation to the heterosexual norm. All kinds of other things do not fall within the intentions of the initiators. I indicated myself that this does not apply to pedosexuality, but also to all other forms. The judge is also, of course, looking at how we interpret Article 1 of the Constitution. It is also a question for the Minister how she sees the General Law on Equal Treatment. However, in the case of Article 1 of the Constitution, we have also looked at the experts who have advised us on this, because if there is discrimination, it is already covered by 'and other grounds'. And it's important to establish that our law doesn't change criminal behavior.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u7	Thank you for this explanation. It once again spells out what my question was about at first instance. The question was: is our impression that the proposers do not intend to do so? Are they not, therefore, seeking an extension in the sense that pedosexuality should suddenly be legally admissible? It helps in the context of the legal history that you are expressing this clearly, but I insist that the proposers do not offer a conclusive solution to this problem. I am very curious to see whether what the proposers expect from a possible legal trial with a court ruling will indeed stand. I hope the proposers are right, but I am not confident.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u8	I am glad that Mr Bishop at least marks very well what the proposers are aiming at. I think that's very important, including for the history of law. I also think it is important that we state here that it is ultimately up to the courts to decide on criminal offences, and this applies to all grounds. But it's often not about those grounds. Let me give you an example of religion. If you commit a criminal offence, Article 1 really doesn't help. That's what I'm going to call in the equation when it comes to other grounds. What's now punishable remains a criminal offence. It is ultimately the judge who has to decide whether, when it comes to the general law on equal treatment, there is an unlawful distinction. That's either the judge or the college. But I think it is good and important for the Minister to give our words some strength later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u9	Finally, Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u10	I believe that the repeated example of the burning of churches, mosques or synagogues from religious beliefs is again disabling the view of the proposers. That is a completely incomparable thing. There is no question of over-inclusion. It is not something that is regulated in the Constitution and which could be justified by an appeal to it. I would therefore like to challenge the proposers to come up with a more appropriate example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u11	I could have used another example, for example, of political action. The idea behind the example was to indicate that criminal behaviour is simply criminal, and that Article 1 of the Constitution does not help you. It is ultimately up to the judge to make a well-balanced judgment. The intention as we have just indicated is also important. But I get the question, and we've looked at it very carefully. This is our answer. Mr. Chairman. Then the horizontal effect. Mr Bosma asked us to reflect on that. That is actually a very interesting question, because administrators and politicians have not been able to give a clear answer to it. The Commission's legal effects on non-discrimination grounds also indicated that this is quite difficult. Therefore, the initiators have chosen to join the classical theory in that. Who are we to distance ourselves from that? Vertical effects are mainly related to the Constitution. The Constitution has traditionally been there to protect nationals from the government, as I just said. I liked the fact that the government wrote in 1976, when it was in the process of amending the constitution which eventually became reality in 1993, that the horizontal effect is the functioning of fundamental rights in the legal relations between citizens, and that the vertical effect is on fundamental rights in the legal relations between government and citizens. In particular, the Constitution has a vertical effect. However, we do see that Article 1 of the Constitution has been developed in the General Law on Equal Treatment, and that is the horizontal effect. Moreover, we also see this in the Code of Criminal Law, which includes the principle of equality and the prohibition of discrimination. This horizontal effect is therefore actually contained in the other formal legislation rather than in the Constitution itself. Mr Bosma also quoted political scientist Meindert Fennema, who asks if, because of the prohibition of discrimination, you should not say anything unkind. Mr Fennema is, of course, right about that. Freedom of expression is, of course, a very good thing. This freedom is very important, but it is not an absolute right. This is limited by the Code of Criminal Law. Inciting violence, insulting or inciting hatred are all matters that are contained in the Code of Criminal Law. In the end, of course, it is up to the court to decide on this in specific cases. Mr. Chairman. Then there was another question asked about chronic diseases. Mrs Dik-Faber had asked whether chronic diseases were disabled. The answer to that is yes. At the time, our predecessors were in conversation with Elke(in), who then had another name, namely the Chronic sick and Disabled Council of the Netherlands. At that time it was actually said that disability is a good term, also because it fits internationally. For example, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Handicap is in that sense so I hardly dare to say that it is an inclusive term, which also includes chronic illness. I think it's important to put it together here. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last block. Mr Bishop has asked questions about the Embryo Act. How does it relate to our bill? Let me say first of all that the authors did not themselves choose to talk about the Embryo Act. The question came from the SGP itself, but it was in the context of the applicants' response to the Council of State. The authors had said that in our present society there are still laws and rules which, on these grounds, constitute unjustified unequal treatment. The SGP asked what was thought of; for example, the Embryo Act? The authors didn't think of that, but at that time they thought of the single-fact construction. When we look at the time, we see that the advice and response to it took place by our predecessors in 2012. That's when the single fact-finding structure was still there. That's what the reaction was. Looking at the Embryowet, I think it is important to repeat what we have said in the note, namely that an unborn fruit can only legally bear the rights if it comes into the world alive. So our initiative law, our bill, isn't about the Embryo Act. What is important, however, in the light of the whole discussion that we have also had a little bit in the note, is that our legislative proposal provides an important legal and administrative guarantee, despite the fact that we do not now have any representation of other laws and rules that are contrary to this. We are also avoiding the possibility of repealing laws on equal treatment. Mr President, I wanted to leave it at that, at least in my first term. But I see there's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u12	Yes, that is a question from Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u13	Thank you to Mrs Bergkamp and thank you to the other authors. As I said in my first term, the bill is undoubtedly sympathetic. Don't argue about that! I also asked what the added value is. How do you avoid the so-called Christmas tree problem? In the Constitution, you go from five to seven categories that should not be discriminated against, but there will undoubtedly be groups that may now also be calling out: we also want to be included. For example, discrimination on nationality, discrimination on civil status or age discrimination. Maybe that'll come up later. How do we prevent these groups from feeling left out?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u14	This is actually a very natural moment to turn over the baton to Mr Van den Hul, because she pays attention to the austerity of Article 1 of the Constitution. All the questions raised are reflected in her contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u15	Is that a good solution for Mr Van Dijk? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u16	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u17	Thank you, then I shall suspend very briefly, so that there can be rotation and there can be cleaned for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u18	I call Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Bergkamp has just discussed the legal and technical aspects of this initiative proposal. As has already been announced, I will address the sober nature of the Constitution, other grounds for discrimination and the age of discrimination. On that last point, I am referring to the Krol amendment. Mr. Chairman. Several parties, including the SGP, the SP, the CDA and D66, have considered the so-called sober nature of our Constitution. A certain degree of austerity is desirable. As Mr Renkema was able to put it nicely, it is not for nothing that nothing has changed about this article since 1983. So we don't just do that. Mr. Chairman. Sobriety is not about the number of words. Here's another thing about this sobriety. The Franken Commission, which researched fundamental rights in the digital age in 2000, stated that the sober nature of the Constitution meant that a fundamental right should only be incorporated into the Constitution if this right is truly essential for the personal and social functioning of the citizens. The Franken Commission therefore stated that it would be obvious to limit adjustments to the Constitution "in principle to adjustments resulting from developments already enshrined in existing laws or other decisions with sufficient social support." In this context, the government and the constitutional body also point to the existence of so-called constitutional maturity and legal and social necessity. The proposers consider that this bill complies with this requirement. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, both Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Bishop asked how we look at a first article of our Constitution from which all specific grounds would be removed. Mr Bishop has also tabled an amendment to this effect. The article then reads: "Discrimination is not permitted." Period. Mr Jasper van Dijk referred to statements made by former MP Coos Huijsen, a former party colleague of both Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Ploumen and the first openly homosexual parliamentarians in the world. Indeed, Mr Huijsen wrote about this in an opinion piece in Trouw on 20 August 2019, but for the reporting it is important to mention his full quote here. I quote: 'Logically, the article would have sounded: 'All who are in the Netherlands are treated equally. Discrimination on any ground is not allowed." However, in view of this history, it is justified that the lhbt rights are now explicitly mentioned, especially if we involve the pronounced aggression in public space against lhbt people." This shows that Mr Huijsen was not in favour of removing all specific grounds from Article 1 of the Constitution. More generally, the following. The discussion of deleting the explicit grounds in Article 1 has hardly begun, let alone crystallised. There is therefore no indication that there would be significant public support for such a fundamental amendment to Article 1 of the Constitution. The initiators suspect that such a change of law is not so understood in Dutch society, and will give rise to many questions about the importance which the constitutionalist attaches to the prevention of discrimination on the grounds of explicit grounds religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender. This fundamental change makes it less clear to people in the Netherlands which, according to the Dutch constitutionalist, are at least grounds on which discrimination is not tolerated in the Netherlands. In this context, I would also like to mention Each, the COC, and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which state that the Constitution is important for both constitutional recognition and recognition. That is why we believe that the proposed alternative to removing all grounds will not benefit the public awareness and recognition of these grounds of discrimination, which may in turn affect the legislative power of our Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u20	Mr Bishop, for his interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u21	I would also, of course, like to do Mrs van den Hul the honour of having an exchange of views with her on Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union. It seems to me that enlargement with these aspects is something arbitrary. And then, in my opinion, there are two tastes: either you do choose that very austere but comprehensive variant, which Mrs Van den Hul suspects has no support for in society, or I suspect the contrary, or you choose a variant that is in line with existing international conventions. And so I am referring to Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union: 'Every discrimination, in particular on grounds of sex, race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other views, membership of a national minority, property, birth, disability, age or sexual orientation, is prohibited'. Then why do you not choose to do so, but do the proposers do so, so my pressing question to them is, through you, President-in-Office of the Council, a design of your own? That doesn't sound legal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u22	Thank you to Mr Bishop for this interruption. I think it is important to stress here that every law knows its own history. For example, there is also the history of the mentioned and quoted Article 21 and the history of the general law on equal treatment, in which a number of issues are further specified. And the proposers believe that the discussion on the two grounds of discrimination to be added in the Netherlands certainly has a social outcrystallisation. We have indeed quoted Mr Huijsen, who agrees with us. And we believe that the removal of all grounds does not, first and foremost, benefit the recognition and recognition which is indeed the aim of our proposal, but also that it has not been preceded by the wide-ranging public debate, which, as far as we are concerned, means that there can be no social support on this front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u23	To be honest, I am surprised at this, because I hear Mrs Van den Hul in the Committee on Education and Youth, and I may not be allowed to clap out of the committee, because it is another committee which is regularly fulminating against the growing inequality and so on in education. If we recognise that problem, then there is every reason, for example, to name wealth or you name it, too. Why limit it to these two grounds, which add, and the rest... And so I refer to Article 21 of the Charter, because there is perhaps a fairly complete or at least more complete palette... Then why are these two randomly, and then, for example, wealth, or origin or birth not? That's random, isn't it? That can't be legal, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u24	Mr Bishop points out a point I would have raised in my speech, but I am happy to answer his question. It is a question that several Members asked in the first term, including Mr Van Dijk. He mentioned nationality and civil status. For example, there are other reasons to think about which one could ask the same question: why not that one and this one does? We can reply as proposers that the ratio behind the current list of grounds referred to in Article 1 of the Constitution is that these are grounds that can never, or only to a very limited extent, justify discrimination or assessment. Its grounds, Mrs Bergkamp, were already talking about it in her term of office, which are so personal that you can either not get rid of it at all, to use that word, or only with a serious violation of your personal integrity, as Mrs Bergkamp put it so beautifully. With regard to the grounds which Mr Bishop mentioned just as an example, such as property, social class or other things that you can attach to them, or with regard to the grounds mentioned by Mr Jasper van Dijk, such as nationality or bourgeois status, there are certainly situations in which making distinction on those grounds makes sense, or in any case justified. This is a very different example from, for example, the grounds we are talking about today, the grounds for discrimination already mentioned in Article 1 or the grounds we believe we should add. Those grounds are either inextricably linked to the person, or they are not allowed to lead to distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u25	I am genuinely trying to follow this argument, but I cannot really find a good line in it legally. Why don't you tell me why this isn't about birth? That's so much personal. Surely birth can never be grounds for discrimination? Isn't that part of Article 1? Age has everything to do with birth, as far as I know. You'd say that, wouldn't you? So the story is not plausible. I would like to see a careful legal closing story. It's too much, with an apology to the chairman, cherrypicking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u26	I believe that we, as proposers, have a very clear and conclusive legal story. First of all, let me stress once again, perhaps a plethora, that discrimination is prohibited, on whatever grounds. That is the basis of Article 1 anyway. The reasons we wish to add are grounds on which a broad public debate has taken place. We think they're crystallized. Moreover, they are grounds that are inextricably linked to a person. The grounds to which Mr Bishop and Mr Van Dijk refer, and to which the Krol amendment, which I shall go into later, also refers, are grounds where distinction is not always unlawful. I take Mr Bishop with me in the example age, or the example nationality. Forms of distinction are conceivable on the basis of which, for example, a driving licence may be obtained or voted. Forms of distinction are conceivable for those who may or may not claim a passport. There are, therefore, grounds on which it is permissible to distinguish between those characteristics which have been mentioned as examples. That is not the case with the grounds already included in Article 1 and that is not the case with the grounds we wish to add to Article 1 tonight. That's a difference. That is also the basis for the answer to Mr Bishop's question. I would like to return to Mr Bishop's amendment, as Mrs Bergkamp announced in her first term. I would like to continue with my answer, on the subject of other grounds. I've just said a few things about it. Several members have considered adding other grounds to Article 1 of the Constitution and the possible inflationary effect of the inclusion of the two grounds. Among others, Mr Bosma used the terms "Christmas Tree" and "Christmas Balls." Mr Jasper van Dijk I referred to him as 'nationality' and 'civil status', both of which are mentioned in the General Law on equal treatment. Mr Van Gent and Mrs Dik-Faber also discussed grounds in a general sense. In our own-initiative proposal, we have deliberately confined ourselves to these two grounds. Moreover, Mr Van Gent is quite right that the principle of equality in Article 1 also applies to persons and groups who feel excluded, but whose grounds for discrimination are not explicitly mentioned in Article 1. The reason behind the current list of the grounds mentioned in Article 1 of the Constitution is that these are grounds which, in general opinion, may never, or only in a limited number of exceptional cases, justify discrimination or assessment. The same applies, in our view, to the grounds of disability and sexual orientation. The other grounds cannot be said to fall into the same category of personal characteristics. In our view, this can be said of the specific grounds currently contained in Article 1 of the Constitution. Among others, Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Renkema asked questions about Mr Krol's amendment on adding the age of the ground to Article 1 of the Constitution. At the request of the Lower House, the Advisory Section of the Council of State recently provided information on this amendment. Let me begin by saying that, in general terms, we must always be alert to all forms of unjustified discrimination, including age, I say in the direction of Mr Krol. However, the Advisory Section of the Council of State points out in its information that age as a non-discrimination ground is of such a nature as to be different from the non-discrimination grounds set out in Article 1 of the Constitution and the grounds for disability and sexual orientation, that the addition of age to the list of these named grounds is not reasonable. The Section would point out that, unlike the stated grounds and the grounds for disability and sexual orientation, age does not fall into the same category of personal characteristics. In the opinion of the Section, the grounds to be appointed and appointed are personal characteristics which cannot be renounced, such as race, gender, disability and sexual orientation, or where one can only involuntarily renounce, with impairment of personal integrity. We were just talking about that. Religion, belief and political orientation are examples of this. These grounds are also related to a long history of structural persecution and far-reaching legal disadvantage. That is not the case at age. Age is not in the same sense as the named grounds as a congenital or involuntary person characteristic and is also not related to the person's essential views. It is true that everyone has a certain age, but it changes by definition with time. Everyone in his life goes through various stages of life and years with the rights and powers attached to the age concerned, facilities and obligations, limitations and burdens. The legislator's margins for using age as a differentiation criterion are considerably wider than those of the grounds already mentioned in Article 1 and the grounds for disability and sexual orientation. Age is, according to many existing regulations, a relevant and useful or at least acceptable criterion for determining claims, rights and obligations. I have just mentioned the retirement age, the electoral age, the rules on extending a driving licence or age limits in the armed forces. In these examples, the Advisory Section mentions the wide range of exceptions in the Equal Treatment Act based on age. Mr Krol's amendment will be dealt with in greater detail in the second period, as has been said. That was also the end of my first term, Mr President. I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u27	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u28	Thank you for the detailed explanation of a number of questions raised in the first period. I just wanted to have a little bit of an exchange of views on that age criterion. I can very well follow the advice of the Council of State on this matter. I think the examples are also appealing. At the same time, I note that there is also age discrimination in our society. I understand that this proposal is not the solution, but how do the proposers look at the fact that age discrimination exists? What possibilities do the proposers perhaps see outside their own proposal, but I assume they have taken a closer look at it in order to tackle this discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u29	Thank you to Mrs Ploumen for this important question. It rightly calls for attention to be paid to age discrimination, which is a very topical issue. The College of Human Rights has recently made a statement on this subject. It is a persistent problem which, fortunately, is addressed through various policy areas. As far as we are concerned, adding age to Article 1 of the Constitution is not the best way to combat age discrimination. It is an interdisciplinary problem which also calls for interdisciplinary solutions, which we see in particular in the policy areas of different departments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u30	Then I hope that what I am about to ask for is not out of order, but if it is, the President will correct me. The Minister for the Interior is here and she is also responsible for combating discrimination. Could I then take this opportunity to ask her to respond to possible interventions to combat, deter and enforce age discrimination?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u31	That request has been made. I see the Minister nodding. I think that Mrs Van den Hul has come to the end of her reply. We're suspending very shortly for the cleaning exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u32	I call Mrs Özütok.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Hul has just spoken about the austerity of the Constitution, other grounds for discrimination and the age of discrimination as a result of the Krol amendment. In my reply, I will address the questions raised about positive discrimination, the scope of the concept of "sex" in Article 1 of the Constitution, the interaction between the Constitution and other laws, and finally the category of "varia." Mr. Chairman. Various contributions, such as those made by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, Mrs Kuik and Mr Bouali, have focused on the fact that the promotion of equality of opportunity must remain possible. Mr Bouali described it nicely: it is in the interests of the Netherlands that society is inclusive and that everyone can participate in the workplace and in the social and cultural field. It is precisely in order to promote equality of opportunity that distinctions can sometimes be desirable. We are talking about positive discrimination. That is necessary, because, as Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen also said, there are vulnerable groups for whom the emancipation struggle has not yet been fought. Let me reassure you all by saying that positive discrimination, for example with regard to people with disabilities, remains possible. In this respect, therefore, this legislative proposal for that practice does not change anything. If there is to be discrimination, there must be unjustified discrimination. If the distinction is justified from the perspective of equality of opportunity and equality, then there is no unjustified distinction and therefore no discrimination. We have also discussed this earlier, for example the initiative law on the inclusion of gender identity, gender expression and gender traits in the General Equal Treatment Act. The prohibition of discrimination does not mean that everyone must be treated exactly the same, but the distinction must be objectively justified. There must be no arbitrary action in this regard. Mr. Chairman. I have just mentioned the earlier initiative law passed by these initiators through both chambers. This concerned the amendment of the General Law on Equal Treatment to specify the prohibition of unauthorized discrimination on grounds of sex, also known as the Law on the Clarification of the Legal Status of Transgender Persons and Intersex Persons. Mr Renkema, Mrs Kuik and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asked how the grounds for discrimination should be interpreted in Article 1 of the Constitution. Gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression have been replicated in the AWGB as falling under an already explicated soil, namely gender. It is not easy to conclude that this interpretation also belongs to the ground sex in the Constitution. At the same time, there are no indications to the contrary. In fact, the AWGB legislator, you and we as Parliament, together with the government, are also explaining Article 1 of the Constitution. To this extent, the explication in the AWGB is meaningful, and it provides a starting point for the interpretation of the Constitution. Moreover, we see no reason to restrict the interpretation of the Constitution. Moreover, such a broad interpretation of the concept of "sex" in Article 1 of the Constitution is consistent with the judgments of the Human Rights College and case law of the European Court of Justice on the concept of "sex" as provided for in the European Equality Directives. The EU Agency for Fundamental Rights and the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights also believe that the grounds for discrimination include gender discrimination based on gender identity, gender expression and gender characteristics. Therefore, in the view of the initiators, the fact that these forms of discrimination should be seen as part of the concept of "sex" in Article 1 of the Constitution is not at issue. Mr. Chairman. Some questions have been asked about the interaction between the Constitution and the other laws, including by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mrs Dik-Faber. For example, the General Law on Equal Treatment refers to nationality and civil status as grounds for discrimination, whereas the Constitution does not. How do we look at these differences? Should this be streamlined, the question was. How does Article 1 of the Constitution relate to the General Law on Equal Treatment, but also to the Code of Criminal Law? Firstly, on the last question: the first article of our Constitution is about the principle of equality. Former Minister of the Interior Van Thijn spoke about Article 1 as the flag on the new Constitution, as Mrs Bergkamp said at the beginning, not for nothing at the time of the parliamentary procedure of our current Constitution. The equality of people is one of the fundamental principles of our legal order. This constitutional prohibition of discrimination is then further elaborated in other legislation, such as the General Law on Equal Treatment. For example, the General Law on equal treatment lays down the principle of non-discrimination for the activities between citizens in the fields of employment, housing, social services, health care, care for the elderly, education and other public supply of goods and services. The general law on equal treatment, the name says it all, thus offers the general character of our equal treatment legislation. The question of what standards should apply in social life thus differs from the question of where criminal liability should apply. The wording of the articles of discrimination contained in the Penal Code and the exhaustive list of grounds for discrimination in Article 1 of the Constitution show that not all grounds for discrimination lead to criminal liability. In this way, as Mr Jasper van Dijk rightly points out, there are not every grounds for discrimination in every article. This applies, for example, to the grounds for discrimination sex, which is not included in Article 137c of the Code of Criminal Law, which refers to the deliberate insult of a group of people. The different laws therefore have different principles on the desirability of adding land. Mr. Chairman. Streamlining it, for example by saying in all laws that discrimination is prohibited, on any ground, is not a simple matter. The Committee on Legal Protection also notes that the consistent adaptation of the Constitution to formal legislation would require continuous alignment of the Constitution. In addition, this would make the Constitution too detailed. Moreover, the Committee considers that the Constitution is frequently adapted as the highest source of law of the Dutch legal order to lower legislation, contrary to the fundamental nature of the Constitution. In this context, the Committee also points out that the procedure for amending the Constitution is complicated and requires broad political support. The frequent amendment of the Constitution would lead to complications in this respect. The initiators endorse this statement from the committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u34	Now Mrs Özütok says that you should not change the Constitution so quickly and that it should not go after ordinary legislation either. I think that is very plausible, but the authors choose to amend the Constitution. It is supplemented by two grounds from five to seven, while the Chamber and myself have mentioned examples of other forms. Then why are they not included, such as origin, nationality and marital status? How do you defend that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u35	It has to do with the fact that these grounds have a very different history. There is already a public support base and these grounds have already undergone a very historic development. It is indeed complicated to add grounds to the Constitution. We don't just do that. That has been given a lot of thought and it has taken years to get to this point. Now we are ready and there is also social support to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u36	But how do the authors prevent the objection of arbitrariness? There will be people who say: I am discriminated against on account of my origin. I mentioned the example of the Randstad versus the province. Someone can also say that he is discriminated against on the basis of his bourgeois status. How do you prevent that argument of randomness?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u37	This is contained in another law, namely the General Law on Equal Treatment. If people feel discriminated against, they can claim that law at any time. It is up to the judge and the Human Rights College to decide on this. If you say that "that land has been through a whole history and we think that we should take a good look at it and that we should perhaps include it in the Constitution', add-on might be mentioned. We're not standing here for nothing. These two grounds really have a historical background. Other possible grounds cannot be said to fall into the same category of personal characteristics. This is a criterion to be considered when adding land.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u38	I still see Mr Bishop standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u39	I would like to put my finger on this, also in relation to Mr Van Dijk's questions. All of a sudden, among all three applicants, I hear the argument that it has a historical background, that there has been a whole discussion about it. On the basis of which have the authors come to the conclusion that something can only be done in the law if it has a historical background and a wide-ranging public debate on it? Isn't it arbitrary to make that argument all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u40	That's about constitutional maturity. It's a broad public debate. I can't make it prettier than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u41	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u42	Mr Martin Bosma asked why the authors supported the motion of the Party for Animals calling for the designation of the climate emergency situation, while at the same time amending a constitutional article. If you want to abolish the Constitution, why do you want to change it, that was the question. The proposers note that the European Parliament declared a climate and environmental urgency prior to the UN Conference of 2 December 2019. This urgency calls on EU Member States to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to 0% by 2050. The term 'emergency state', as it refers to in the motion, does not therefore refer to the temporary suspension of our Constitution, nor to the declaration of an exceptional state provided for in Article 103 of the Constitution. This issue is separate from our initiative proposal to amend Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a question from Mrs Dik-Faber about the Constitutional Bank, 50 metres away. How should the new rights in Article 1 be placed in this bank? As much as I would like to answer this question here and now, it seems to me that, given the fact that we are working on the first reading of our proposal, we are somewhat premature to go into this in detail. I'll make Mrs. Dik-Faber a promise. If this initiative law is adopted at second reading somewhere after 2023 and the Constitutional Bank may need to be adapted, then we will probably be happy to help with all former applicants. So much for my contribution, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u43	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the response by the initiators. In a few moments the Minister will answer a few questions as advisor to the initiators. I'll suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u44	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thanks, of course, to the initiators. It is always special to speak here as an advisor to initiators of the Chamber. It is, I think, also a special initiative proposal, namely a legislative proposal to amend our Constitution. Of course, we don't do that very often. The proposal is to add two grounds for discrimination to the list of grounds that together reflect the core values of Dutch society. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the initiators are right to say that it is one of our country's core values to say that discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation is not tolerated. As far as we are concerned, it is appropriate to explicitly anchor this in the Constitution. As far as we are concerned, this is also a way of implementing the coalition agreement. Inclusion of these grounds in the list of explicitly mentioned grounds is not only, as the initiators say, the crowning glory on the emancipation of people with disabilities and lesbian women, homosexual men and bisexuals, but, in the opinion of the Cabinet, it also contributes to the further emancipation of these groups. And that emancipation is not yet complete. Discrimination against these groups is still a problem in our society. Therefore, it is good to emphasise that there should really be no doubt that discrimination against people is prohibited either because of their restriction or because of their sexual orientation. By including an explicit ban in the Constitution, this becomes even clearer for everyone, for employers, for service providers, for people on the streets who see two same-sex people walking hand in hand or seeing someone in a wheelchair. But it is also the government's expectation that the inclusion of these grounds in the Constitution will also lead to victims' awareness that they do not have to let this happen, that they have the right to take action against it. As far as the cabinet is concerned, that is also the value of this initiative proposal. Discrimination on these grounds is already prohibited in the Equal Treatment Act and in criminal law, but in terms of awareness and underlining its importance, there is nothing like inclusion in Article 1 of the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions were asked during the first term of office. I'm going to answer that, but I just wanted to deal with the point that is of course addressed by the initiators. I will not give an opinion on the amendments, as the initiators have not yet done so. However, I would like to say something about what has been said in Mr Bishop's amendment, namely to delete all the grounds mentioned from Article 1. He referred to the austerity of the Constitution in relation to the proposal to extend it precisely to two grounds. It is true that our Constitution is sober, but that does not affect, in our view, the importance of the wording as it already exists and the enlargement proposed by the initiators. As the initiators have explained, and as the Council of State has explained, the explicit grounds have in common that they have long been characterized, and sometimes still, by social exclusion, stereotyping, prejudices and stigmatisation. So it is not just about differences between people, but about personal characteristics, about beliefs that, when treated unequally, really affect human dignity, about our integrity and autonomy as people. Equal treatment on these grounds is a core value of society, and that also applies to disability or sexual orientation. Because of the importance of these grounds and because of the history of each of them, the Constitutionalist has chosen to include these grounds explicitly and specifically in Article 1. This makes it clear that discrimination on these grounds is not tolerated. That also contributes, I think, to the recognition of that ban. The distinction on those grounds is therefore suspicious in advance...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u46	Before you continue, an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u47	...and is therefore subject to stricter judicial review, I would like to say. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u48	Is this really the government's opinion? Or do you acknowledge that this will always be a discussion? If you maintain this reasoning, then you say: we are going to complement the list of categories each time or perhaps limit it once. It actually depends on the historical settlement of the public debate that preceded it. Do you recognise that this discussion will always continue and that there will always be groups who feel inadequate? Think, for example, of external characteristics. Fat people and small people have also been discriminated against throughout the ages. They are not now explicitly mentioned. Do you recognize that there is a degree of arbitrariness in it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u49	No, I wouldn't put that under the term "random." Not at all. I acknowledge, or let me put it this way, I do not rule out the possibility of further enlargement in the future. I'm not ruling that out. That's a development. The Constitution is evolving. Society is developing. Maybe there will come a time when you say that this has reached a stage, a maturity, which might allow you to incorporate this into the Constitution. But I also say, and I say to the initiators on that point, that the things that are now being added are actually completely crystallized. I have been informed that in the first period a comparison has been made with a Christmas tree in which perhaps too many balls are hung and we must be careful that the Christmas tree does not become too full. I'm not so worried about it. I think it's a careful process. We are going from five to seven very recognizable subjects, where we say that maturity has now developed. It is obvious that it is. The constitutional maturity test prevents you from saying too fast, hasty, but then we have to include all those groups that Mr Van Dijk is now referring to. No. Article 1 refers to discrimination. It's not allowed. It is precisely for these limited grounds that you want to make that explicit, because it is undeniable and irrefutable if it is precisely for these groups in Article 1.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u50	So we are now going from five to seven grounds on which discrimination is prohibited and which are explicitly referred to as "in the course of time', which can go to nine, ten, eleven, twelve, and so on, while the Constitution must be sober. Do you recognise that Mr Bishop's amendment has a certain charm because it says: we are going to delete all these categories and we are simply saying that discrimination is prohibited, point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u51	Discrimination is prohibited. Period. We don't disagree about that at all. That's what Article 1 is about. However, as I have just said, I would say that the deletion of all the explicitly stated grounds contained in it does not in fact do justice to what the Constitution is at present. The Constitutionalist has chosen to include these grounds. There have been good reasons for that. It makes clear that discrimination on these grounds is not tolerated. It also makes it much more recognizable that there should be no discrimination on these grounds. I believe that Article 1 of the Constitution is not for nothing as it is now. Our opinion is that, at this stage of social development and constitutional maturity, those are the terms previously mentioned. This enlargement is logical and that the reverse movement, as Mr Bishop suggests, is illogical, and does not do justice to the history of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u52	There are quite a lot of interruptions, which are also quite long. I would like to limit them to two-way interruptions, because I'm afraid it's gonna be another night's work. I should now like to give the floor to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u53	Constitutional maturity. Social debate and its breadth. Should I conclude that, for example, birth or social origin is a matter for discussion? If that is not the case or should not be the case, why is it not included? The second question: in other words, is there not a degree of arbitrariness here? Shouldn't the Minister just acknowledge that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u54	No. That is the same question that Mr Van Dijk has just asked. I also said no to that. I have also argued why I do not think that is arbitrary. I repeat, it has been answered by the initiators in the same way that there are no arbitrary differences between people. Nor is the proposal to add some arbitrary features to it. No, it is about obvious differences, personal characteristics and beliefs where unequal treatment really affects human dignity, integrity and autonomy of people. In this way, the Constitutionalist has never gone ice-creaming for one night, nor, as far as I am concerned, with this initiative proposal and this enlargement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u55	Mr Bishop, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u56	But when I hear this answer, is it not entirely applicable to non-discrimination on the basis of birth, based on social origin? Then why isn't that mentioned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u57	Article 1 refers to the prohibition of discrimination, which is very general. But the characteristics of it and the enlargement proposed by the initiators see what I have just said: not just differences that Mr Bishop mentions here, but personal characteristics and beliefs that affect unequal treatment of human dignity. That is a core value of society. Moreover, it is not the case that other grounds are more debatable, so to speak, that it is less clear whether or not discrimination is permitted. No, because discrimination is not allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u58	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u59	Then there are a number of specific questions that were asked in the first period. I shall begin with a question from Mr Van Dijk of the SP. Is it desirable to amend the General Law on Equal Treatment? The answer has already been given, I believe, because that is yes. The change is also in preparation. I aim to consult the bill this summer. By the way, I do this together with JenV's colleague. A combined bill will be presented that will change terminology in both the General Law on Equal Treatment and the Criminal Code. Another question was asked, I thought by GroenLinks, about the term "sexual orientation." That's a more comprehensive term. I understand that GroenLinks said at that time that he was happy with the inclusiveness that it assumes and that the term also fits better with international terminology. The question was whether there are any other regulatory areas where that should be adapted. The two laws in which we have this in preparation have just been mentioned in the reply to Mr Van Dijk. Then there is the question of whether this could be understood as discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. That's a question the judge hasn't talked about yet. However, I assume that the concept of'sex' in the Constitution will not be interpreted differently than the concept of'sex' in the General Law on equal treatment and not in the European Equal Treatment Directives. The Court of Justice of the European Community and the College of Human Rights have now ruled that the prohibition of discrimination based on sex also extends to discrimination based on gender characteristics, gender identity and gender expression. The College of Human Rights has also ruled that there is discrimination based on sex if an intersex person is treated unequally because of his intersex condition. International organisations, the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, are also used to explain the concept of "sex." The fact that these forms of discrimination are covered by the concept of "sex" is not at issue in the case of the government, either in the General Law on equal treatment or in the Constitution. Mrs Kuik asked a question during the first term about possible additional measures that could be taken to actively combat discrimination against people with disabilities and people with disabilities. I also heard Mrs Ploumen ask a question about age discrimination just in the event of interruption. I'll deal with that in a moment, but first I'll deal with the inclusivity. What does the government itself do when it comes to inclusive employership? They are very diverse measures. Of course it should be, because it is a very broad subject. I know from my own portfolio the discrimination in the housing market. This also occurs in people with disabilities and in lhbti'ers. The SZW Secretary of State is taking measures to combat discrimination in the labour market. Then there's OCW and VWS. A great deal of action is being taken to combat this, across all policy areas. This varies from information to setting standards and improving the safety of lhbti'ers. That is the Safety LGBTI Action Plan of OCW and JenV. Of course, we also have the well-known system of anti-discrimination provisions, i.e. the organisations where discrimination can be reported. That's important, too. They can also assist victims with advice. Mr. Chairman. An important point, also just in the interruption debate with Mrs Bergkamp, is pedosexuality. I understood that questions were asked about this in the first term, then by Mr Krol. He said he thinks it's important to draw a clear line when it comes to pedosexuality. I listened very carefully, including the initiators. It is the explicit intention of the initiators not to extend the scope of the concept of "sexual orientation" in relation to the scope of the concept of "homosexual or heterosexual orientation." So the initiators, I understand them, are sexual orientations towards another regardless of the sex of the other. This includes lesbian women, homosexual men and bisexuals, and possibly also asexuals and pansexuals, who are already covered by the term "sexual orientation" in a single statement of the College of Human Rights. It is very clear to me and it is also good that it has just been made very clear in the explanatory memorandum................................................................................................................................................................................................... No one could draw that conclusion from this. Article 1 of the Constitution, we have already talked about discrimination. Discrimination is an unauthorized distinction and pedosexuality, if implemented, is punishable. For example, when a person applies for a daycare center, discrimination is justified on the basis of pedosexuality and therefore not discrimination. Perhaps I should add something, then, that is to be read later on in relation to the question that Mr Bishop just asked to the initiators. That question was about the Constitution versus ordinary legislation, in which Mr Bishop stated that the Constitution was of a higher rank. He asked how criminalisation in ordinary law could then provide a solution. This really is a question of constitutional interpretation. I believe that Mr Bishop himself has said that Parliament's history is relevant in this respect. This guides the way in which concepts should be interpreted. Mrs Bergkamp was quite clear about this. The second way is, of course, the legislator. In the Netherlands, the legislator is the highest interpreter of our Constitution, and that is why, in law, in the General Law on Equal Treatment and in the Code of Criminal Law, we will also define sexual orientation as being directed towards another regardless of gender and not through other characteristics. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked how to prevent discrimination on other grounds from being unintentionally perceived as less serious. She asked, for example, what is the relationship between Article 1 and the General Law on Equal Treatment, but also to the Code of Criminal Law, the grounds for discrimination laid down in Article 137. The Constitution and the two laws mentioned all have different origins, of course, but that is not something you can directly deduce from. The Constitution expresses the fundamental concepts and fundamental values of our society. The explicit grounds contained in the Constitution have a history of exclusion and persecution and are the result of that long emancipatory process. Criminal law and equal treatment legislation are more pragmatic in nature. Not all the grounds mentioned in equal treatment legislation and the Constitution are equally criminal. Equality of treatment legislation affects Article 1 as well as European equal treatment directives. It mentions, for example, ground nationality. The other ground mentioned in the General Law on equal treatment, but not in the Constitution, is the bourgeois state. That had a very practical reason. You wanted to prevent people from being refused through the bond of their bourgeois state because of their sexual orientation. But that ground is no longer of such importance in today's society. Mrs Dik-Faber has also asked whether I share the expectation that this amendment will promote awareness of equal treatment among public bodies and that I will pay attention to this. I have already said that Article 1 is a very strong signal function. The expectation of the initiators and the cabinet is that this signal will indeed help to raise awareness that discrimination on the added grounds, and of course the grounds mentioned above, is unacceptable. This will certainly also apply to public bodies. Unfortunately, we know that discrimination and intolerance are still far too common. We must act against this. We have a lot to do about that. We have also recently sent the annual progress letter on the cabinet approach. Next week an AO Discrimination is planned and now a debate on racism. I am convinced that discrimination is a social problem that we must tackle together, of course by the government but above all with the citizens. This will help with that. Mr. Chairman. The only thing left to me is the question of age and whether it could be part of a change now. I see that age discrimination is indeed a social problem. Maybe I can answer Mrs Ploumen's question first. For those seeking work from a certain age, age discrimination is simply the harsh reality. We know that. We know from recent research by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that it is common. By the way, this applies to the elderly, but also to young people. That is also a form of age discrimination. That's why we're full of that. I mentioned the Action Plan on Labour Market Discrimination of SZW. As a cabinet, we have also supported the European Commission's proposal for a directive requiring equal treatment on the basis of, among other things, age outside work. So with age discrimination as such, when it comes to the labour market or access to certain provisions, insurances, loans and so on, we must continue to do so. I just wanted to say something about age discrimination. That's not discrimination. Discrimination may not be allowed, but age discrimination can sometimes be allowed. It's also very well understood. When we talk about selling alcohol, compulsory education or the AOW age, that is not discrimination, but a logical distinction between stages in human life. That is why, as far as I am concerned, it is just different from the grounds mentioned. The Council of State has written in an information paper on discrimination on grounds already suspected in advance. I think it's something different at age. In some cases, age discrimination exists. In some cases, it is a logical boundary that we choose with each other, for example, the electoral age, which is socially accepted. Mr President, I hope I have answered all the questions with this. I have dealt with the most pressing points I have experienced in the first term on the part of the initiators. With this, I want to conclude this deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u60	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term. Then we'll move on to the second term. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u61	Mr. Chairman. This law is sympathetic. Discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation is unacceptable. No misunderstanding. At the same time, there is the risk of a prayer without end. There will always be groups that want to be included in that Article 1 of the Constitution. Think of discrimination based on appearance, origin, nationality and other examples that have passed. So you run the risk of being random. Then even a paradox arises. Then the crazy situation arises that this bill from the esteemed authors can lead to discrimination. For there will be groups who say: 'Hey, we want to be included; we are discriminated against by the proposers!' Then you come to Mr Bishop's amendment: simply delete all categories and ban discrimination. But that raises another question. For what if that amendment is adopted, I ask the Minister, should the Constitution also be amended? You understand, Mr President, to make a long story short: it is a diabolical dilemma for my group. We shall consider it. At the time of the vote, you will see what we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u62	Thank you. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Today, we are again discussing this important standard in the national legal order to combat discrimination, namely Article 1 of the Constitution. In my first term I quoted Thomas Jefferson, one of the spiritual fathers of the United States. He had it recorded that everyone is born equal.... or he actually said: equal is created.................................................................................................................................................................................... But he did in his own social context. The debate on discrimination is always in a social context, in a social era. His time was that of the late eighteenth century. For a good understanding: that so liberal Thomas Jefferson himself had slaves on his plantations and on his grounds. In recent weeks, we have seen how discrimination based on race has once again become a subject of debate in the United States, but also in many other countries, and not only a subject of debate, but also a subject of social resistance. The Black Lives Matter movement shows how deep racism is still rooted in our society. This also means that it is never enough to include a new word in the Constitution. Paper is patient, after all. Thomas Jefferson will show you. This legal anchoring, the adaptation of the Constitution, must always go hand in hand with the active fight against discrimination in all areas of life, in all sectors of society, in all institutions. The five grounds mentioned in the Constitution in 1983 will be extended to include two additional grounds, namely disability and sexual orientation, when this amendment is adopted. In all than seven cases, it is already mentioned a number of times this evening about personal characteristics that you simply cannot renounce, because it is physical, for example, or you can only distance yourself from without compromising your own personal integrity. Think of one's political belief or religion. This makes Article 1 the compass for our society about how we want to treat people in this country: equal, without involving one of these seven grounds in decisions about people, or in policies leading to very unjustified discrimination. In the opinion on the Krol amendment, the Council of State adds that these grounds, all seven, are related to 'a history of structural persecution and far-reaching legal disadvantage'. Let those words work on you: a history of structural persecution. Those are words that resonate, even now with the Black Lives Matter movement and the demonstrations that are going on there. But they are also words that are recognized by everyone with a different sexual orientation than heterosexuals and by people with disabilities. For decades they have faced social exclusion, which was due, among other things, to a history of unreasonable stereotyping, prejudice and stigmatisation. A great deal has already been said about age discrimination in the first period. I am pleased that the Council of State has given an opinion on the amendment. The opinion strengthens my conviction, which I have also expressed in the first term, that adding the basic age is not desirable at the moment. Finally, Mr President. For our group, unlike the SP, it is not a diabolical dilemma. The reaction this evening, the answer to the many questions, the advice given by the Minister, but certainly also the persistence of these authors and their predecessors together, will not be surprising that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supports the amendment of the Constitution. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u64	Thank you. I call Mrs Ploumen of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party wholeheartedly supports the proposal from the proposers. Let me begin by thanking them for the work they have done, but perhaps even more for their recognition, and their predecessors, of the feelings of people who are not only excluded by a lot of people because that would be easy to say but also excluded. In addition to our own moral compass, the Constitution is also our guide in ensuring that discrimination is inadmissible not only in words, but also in deeds, in writing and in law. Therefore, as far as the Labour Party is concerned, it is only natural that these two grounds should now be added to Article 1 of our Constitution. Listening to people's experiences, analysing what is happening in society and understanding how important it is that you are not only rooted in yourself but also protected by our Constitution, the Labour Party believes that this extension of the Constitution is not a day too early. We shall therefore give our wholehearted support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u66	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Molen of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u67	Thank you, Mr President. In the beginning, the authors referred to the fact that it was ten years ago on 11 June that a whole number of Members of Parliament took this initiative. This shows that an amendment to the Constitution is a long-term thing. We are now at the tail of a very long process. In any case, I would like to thank the authors, just like last time, for the work they put into that last piece, before it goes to the First Chamber, of course. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the comments that it is right at the moment to include sexual orientation and disability as a non-discrimination ground in the law, also because there is constitutional maturity, which has been used many times. In fact, we are already building up a lot of laws before we get to the Constitution, and that is enough to be able to express that principle of our society through the Constitution. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to comment on Mr Krol's amendment on age discrimination. It has often been said in this debate that it will be a Christmas tree again. I think that the opinion of the Council of State has been very clear, namely that age really is of a different nature. Everyone's an age. It is therefore difficult to use age as a non-discrimination ground. But the CDA Group recognizes very clearly the point that Mr Krol wants to make, because he says that in Dutch society there are really unauthorized forms of discrimination based on age. The Minister has already said what the cabinet is doing about it. I would just like to point out that the CDA Group does not intend to follow Mr Krol's proposal, even when it comes to the long term. It was, in a way, an easy step, such as: we are now amending the Constitution, so we can take it with us. But there are a number of steps ahead of that. However, I remain in line with Mr Krol, because I would like to keep the issue of age discrimination on the agenda. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that age discrimination is not permitted;]] [[Whereas the state can use age as a differentiation criterion;]] [[Whereas it is necessary to combat unjustified exclusion on the basis of age;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how to better anchor the fight against age discrimination in policy and legislation and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 January 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Molen and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32411-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u68	We are doing this in order to give the Chamber the opportunity to hold an extensive debate on the specific issue of age-based discrimination. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u69	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u70	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the efforts made by the initiators and the Minister to convince us that it would at least be a good addition to the Constitution. Let me add: unfortunately, they have not succeeded. I continue to like the feeling of randomness, of occasional argumentation. The austerity of the Constitution is underlined, but at the same time the constitutional maturity of the Constitution is discussed. The discussion is over. It is historically crystallized and there is social support. Yes, you do, but then you have to put other grounds as well. I have already mentioned a number of them in the case of interruption. I have deliberately mentioned not so much age, but a certain social or ethnic background or birth or so on. They're also crystallized. There's no more discussion about that either. So it is just as well justified to record it. Mr. Chairman. That is why I am once again making a warm plea for our amendment. If you change the second paragraph of Article 1 to the phrase 'discrimination is not allowed' or 'discrimination on any basis is not allowed' and you continue to regulate it in the General Law on equal treatment, my group believes you have a careful construct.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u71	There is an interruption by Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u72	I have an interruption on this point. I believe that the SGP has interrupted all three applicants and the Minister on the same issue. I run the risk that this will be a bit of a repeat of moves. I have the impression that Mr Bishop is sketching a dichotomy that is not legitimate. He says, on the one hand, that you can actually add everything to the Constitution and that this is completely arbitrary, so let's add all kinds of other things, maybe even that people have curls in their hair or are redheads. That actually makes it a kind of Christmas tree and we don't want that. And the alternative is the amendment: we're just deleting everything that's in there right now. And at that time, the five grounds from 1983 also go out of the Constitution. Then it just says: there must be no discrimination. But those five grounds are there for a reason; they are a result of a historical process. It's about gender, it's about religion, it's about race. And we come from a situation where women in the past didn't have the same rights as men. Until 1956, they were incompetent. They're much shorter than men's right to vote. We come from a situation in which religions in the Netherlands were not treated equally, in which baptismalists were persecuted, in which Catholics were not allowed to enter public services: discrimination. We come from a situation where it was said at some point: Jews are a race, and that is why we can prosecute them. So those grounds that have been there since 1983, for 37 years, you can't just strip them away. And I think the important question is: why do they stand there? The answer is emancipation. For those groups have emancipated themselves, who have fought to obtain equal rights. My question to Mr Bishop is: would you like to reflect on the emancipation since 1983 of people with different sexual orientations and people with disabilities, and what that emancipation of those groups means to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u73	First of all, I want to take away a caricature. It's not like I'm imagining it as if you could add everything, based on the arguments of the proposers: curling in your hair, red hair or not. That is absolutely not the case. The only thing I have done, and I have done so with all three of the authors, and with the Minister, because all four of them had the same argument, namely: the sober nature of the Constitution, constitutional maturity and social support or historically crystallized, and that sort of thing is that I said: if you really take those arguments seriously, then you should not leave it with these two; so imagine others. I referred to Article 21 of the Charter of the European Union. And then you come to birth, or social descent. That's crystallized, isn't it? And I'm not interested in your interpretation of "look, this is a fruit of emancipation from 1983." No, I think it's been going on a lot longer. Of course it does, but that's not the argument, is it? Yeah, it can be put forward as an argument, sure. But when it comes to equality of opportunity, aren't we talking about birth? And we have a certain consensus on that, don't we? And that should be enshrined in the Constitution, by prohibiting differences or discrimination on the basis of birth or social origin? Then why isn't that happening? That's the underlying question. And that is why I say: people, I am very sorry, I have really tried to look at it as kindly as possible, also from the group, but here there is the characteristic of randomness and of occasional arguments. And as a legislator, you have to stay as far away from that as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u74	I am glad that the SGP is concerned about equality of opportunity in the Netherlands. But that's not the point. It's not about what family you're born in, it's about what personal characteristics you have or what deep beliefs you have, and that you can be discriminated against on that basis. In any case, I note that there is no reflection on the emancipation of people with different sexual orientations or people with disabilities; I have not heard any reflection on this. And finalizing, Chairman, my follow-up question. Those other grounds, which I have just said are not in vain since 1983, they have value. If we delete it, for example, it would mean that when it comes to SGP membership, Mr Bosma is not there at the moment, but he also claimed that the PVV could be a reason to say, for example, that you could be discriminated against on that basis. Then it says in Article 1: there must never be discrimination. But the essence of it is that these groups have been given equal rights and that this is a historic process, which is missing once and for all. So would Mr Bishop like to try again to explain to me why he actually says of the other five grounds: I choose in my amendment to delete them? I really don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u75	Mr Renkema is starting another discussion. And that is a discussion on why certain elements are included in the Constitution. That's not what my discussion was about, why they were recorded. My discussion, my interruptions among others, and my speech was about: what are the grounds for including such prohibitions? If you then consistently reason, you have to add others. I have not received a satisfactory answer to the question as to why this should not be possible. By the way, it is a misunderstanding that if this is removed from the Constitution, you cannot give it a place in the organic law. It's as good a way to acknowledge history as it is. I would like to start the debate on what form of emancipation that has taken, but I believe that this is along the legal line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u76	Very briefly, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u77	Yeah, about the amendment. I think it would require a constitutional change if you were to accept this amendment. Then you'll scrape a few cases. This law is not like other laws. This is the Constitution. This is the most basic law we have, from which people can derive rights. So I do not understand why an amendment proposes to delete those other five grounds, which we have been in the Constitution for almost 40 years. Will Mr Bishop table this amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u78	Of course, if this amendment is put to the vote, it is a first reading of an amendment to the Constitution, as well as the legislative proposal now before us. It's not that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u79	Mr Van Gent also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u80	It is a bit along the lines of what Mr Renkema says. We have clearly stated that the Constitution has an enormous symbolic value. Actually, we've known that a long time. Think of the fact that certain groups are included in it. What's the symbolism, or what could be the symbolism if you were to delete it? What's that supposed to mean? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u81	Thanks for the question. Mr Van Gent asks about the symbolism that assumes it. So we also have to ask ourselves what symbolism will prevail if we do not add those other grounds which, based on the same arguments, should also be added. Let's not forget that symbolism. It is not so much symbolism; it is legally tight organisation. It is indeed ensuring a sober Constitution, for carefully worked out organic laws. There you can have an excellent discussion on these issues, including the discussion on the missing points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u82	Thank you. Were you at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u83	Yes, I'm at the end of my speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u84	But you haven't finished...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u85	...but I still have an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u86	Yes, there is another interruption by Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u87	I think Mr Bishop plays an important role in this debate. Perhaps 'plays' is not the right word, but he has a role to play in this debate to keep things as sharp for the proposers. Following Mr Renkema's comments, I try to understand Mr Bishop. Mr Bishop criticised the arbitrariness of the initiators. The initiator then supports that from maturity. There is indeed, as Mr Renkema says, a kind of emancipation movement in society that makes sense now to explicitly name it. Mr Renkema then challenges you to reflect on that. In any case, I did not personally hear that in your contribution. But I think it is also a coincidence for you to then argue why they have no point, because that is what your whole idea of arbitrariness depends on. You could have mentioned ten other points. The initiators say: no, this results from the emancipation movements. If you stick to your view that it is arbitrary, you will have to justify why that is not the case, or at least ten other things that have been fought in Dutch society as much as for these two. With this long run-up, I come to my question: would Mr Bishop want to justify why sexual orientation and disability are not a logical consequence of a struggle in society, as Mr Renkema calls it, with which it is justified to include them in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u88	In my view, it was not my argument that this was not the result of a fight for equal rights. My argument was aimed at making it clear that, if this is the argument for adding this to Article 1 of the Constitution by means of a constitutional change, so too, if you want to avoid the suspicion of arbitrariness or occasional argument, you will have to look seriously at other points. I mentioned a few. I repeat: when it comes to education, we are talking about inequality of opportunity. We're mordicus against that. That has to do with social descent. Then why do we not anchor the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of social origin or birth in the Constitution? That was my argument. That is why I say that there is a certain amount of argument. If you do it, you have to do it right, but then you don't have to pull out a pair that has indeed preceded a development. That's the argument. Okay, but then there are other grounds. That's why I didn't talk about age. I didn't mention the color of hair or crooked toes, O-legs or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u89	The conclusion that Mr Bishop draws is: if you make a very long list, you would say because of the austerity "now it stops somewhere and you have to shorten it." In a way, I supported him on that point in the first term. But Mr Bishop just made a complaint, or at least an objection, to the initiators when it was about sexual orientation. Then Mr Bishop indicated that that would be overinclusion, if I can remember that word. There's gonna be something underneath that you wouldn't have wanted underneath. How does Mr Bishop judge his own proposal from that point of view? He says "on any ground." This really includes everything, so why can that be a reproach to the initiators when it comes to sexual orientation, and is that not the risk in Mr Bishop's amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u90	Let this be the only time we've really worked together. Why did I raise this point? Because in the literature the risk of overinclusion is highlighted, which gives it a much greater effectiveness than we, or also the proposers, mean. Therefore, in the context of legal history and interpretation, it is important for the proposers to say: "Yes, but, wait a minute! That's what we're talking about. Pedophilia is not caught among them." So that wasn't a reproach, but it was a challenge: put it very sharply for a moment. And my compliments for the clear and unambiguous way in which that happened. So that was actually the only real moment of cooperation. I hope that Mrs Bergkamp has experienced this a bit as well, but at least that was the intention. Thanks for the question. That gave us the opportunity to clarify. Beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u91	Thank you. I call Mr Bouali of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is a special evening and also a very special subject. I am very pleased to see my colleagues here who have taken this initiative on this particular issue. I would like to thank the initiators and also the cabinet for the comprehensive first-term response, particularly Mr Özütok, which addressed the specific questions I had. D66 strongly supports this constitutional change. With the explicit inclusion of the grounds disability and sexual orientation in Article 1 of the Constitution, it becomes even clearer that the Netherlands does not tolerate discrimination and stands for a more inclusive society, where everyone has the opportunity to participate and be visible themselves. The Minister also takes a very clear position. The cabinet supports this initiative, which also contributes to the further emancipation of people with disabilities and lesbian women, homosexual men and bisexuals. This change is much more than just a constitutional change. We are taking another beautiful and very desirable step towards the future. We show that the Netherlands does not tolerate discrimination on grounds of disability or sexual orientation and, as a country, values fundamental values such as freedom and equality are high values. We make the Netherlands even more beautiful. Finally, I would like to say that I hope for a speedy conclusion and a quick vote so that we can lead this agreement from the coalition agreement to the First Chamber. It is clear that my group is in favour of this constitutional change. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u93	Thank you. I call Mr Van Gent of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u94	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues once again for their commitment to the good work as co-legislator. This is a task that we also have in this Parliament and which, unfortunately, sometimes gets in the background. In this case, it is even a constitutional amendment and Article 1 of the Constitution. It can hardly be more honorable, I'd say. We've heard it's been a long way. It says something about the persistence and determination that ultimately it is here. I thought it was a good debate, too. I would also like to thank my colleagues for that. It was a sharp debate in which the dilemmas have also become apparent. Of course, we have also seen these dilemmas as a group when it comes to the Christmas tree and the age. Perhaps it is reassuring that the same discussion took place when this article of the Constitution was written in 1983. It was also about the scope and the question of what should be included. Marcus Bakker's amendment, which was adopted at the time, is the one that says, "on whatever ground'. Maybe it's l'histoire se répète after all. On the other hand, I have also learned once again, after all, you are always learning as a parliamentarians that a constitution is really a growth model. It is precisely because of the changes in time and the spirit of time that you must also amend a constitution. This is a difficult and difficult process, but the initiators know all about it. Indeed, it is very important to have public support in this regard. That argument has also been used before. The VVD can support the proposal. We talked about it, of course, and we discussed it, but we also thought the arguments that have been put forward were very good. All I have left to say is a disappointment. It's a small but. A great deal has been said about the Constitutional Bank. I also drew attention to the problem that Article 1 is hanging on the wall in many city halls and provincial houses. In my town hall and in my county hall, at least that's the case. I have already said that there must be a warning, because if it all goes on, a lot of things will have to be removed from the walls and replaced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u95	Thank you. Finally, Mr Krol of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Compliments to the proposers. I sincerely hope that we can take this step quickly. In my first term, my colleagues asked me to submit my amendment to include age in Article 1 to the Council of State. I am happy to respond to their comments and those of the proposers and the Minister. Age discrimination exists and its consequences are as severe as the effects of other forms of discrimination. An international study by the World Health Organisation shows that age discrimination is a global phenomenon. The study shows that the consequences relate to the well-being of the victims, the quality of life and life, social isolation, mental and physical health and the final life expectancy. There is no place for age discrimination in our society. I think we all agree on that. The Council of State advises not to appoint age in Article 1. Above all, I would like to stress the argument that the justified distinction by age is so important that the appointment would not be discussed. I am opposed to this, because unjustified age discrimination causes many victims. In a recent letter from the Minister for the Interior, she writes that discrimination is most often experienced on grounds of age. And that's not nothing. I refer to the difference between lawful and unlawful distinctions, then to the difference between appointed and unappointed grounds, and finally to the difference between the Constitution and the other laws. Permitted versus unauthorized distinction. Article 1 deals with equal treatment in equal cases. That does not mean that we can make a distinction as long as it is functional. Let me give you some examples. Life belief has been appointed in Article 1 and yet functional distinctions may be made on the basis of belief. To stay close to home: the fraction of the SGP may select human resources policy on the basis of belief, because that fits the identity of the group. This has been explicitly mentioned in Article 1 and yet functional distinctions may be made. Race is an example of that. That sounds controversial at the moment in the context of topicality but when selecting an actor for the role of Martin Luther King, a distinction may be made on the basis of race. The same applies to the distinction on the basis of sex. To match the previous example: you may recruit a female actor to perform a feminine character in a film scenario. The selection by visitors of prostitutes is also permitted, for sex and for sexual orientation. That's what's gonna happen, believe me! • several times a day. The Council of State states that the exceptions to the grounds are set out in Article 1. Only occasional exceptions are justified. Age discrimination is so often used by the legislator that age is therefore not a prima facie suspect grounds for discrimination. The Council of State states that age should therefore not be explicitly appointed. If we place this reasoning in historical perspective, we get a déjà vu. What happened at the ground handicap? In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we are discussing, we read: "Handicap was left outside Article 1, not so much because disability was not very topical at the time, but because of the reasoning that disability discrimination can be justified. The government considered it fair that differences in personal characteristics, such as mental or physical abilities, were linked to different consequences." This discussion took place in the 1970s. A law has now been passed, the Equal Treatment Act on the grounds of disability or chronic illness. It says that people with disabilities should not be discriminated against. Buildings and services should be as accessible as possible to all, except where the distinction is objectively justified and by a legitimate objective. This restriction does not prevent applicants from proposing to explicitly include disability in Article 1. The Council of State was critical. The rebuttal of the proposers, however, makes sense. They argue that explicit appointment is linked to a confirmation and explanation of what has been achieved in terms of people with functional disabilities and equal treatment of heterosexuals and homosexuals and b good monitoring of these matters is an additional legal instrument to clarify the fundamental right for everyone. I endorse these reasons for explicitly naming a ground. I also say that these reasons are equally valid for age. Because, first of all, we have already achieved a great deal in our fight against age discrimination. We have a special law, the Equal Treatment Act based on age. We have the Human Rights College, which has the right to impose fines on companies guilty of age discrimination. We have the Municipal Anti-Discrimination Services Act, which allows victims of age discrimination to report. The argument put forward by the proposers for the explicit designation of disability and sexual orientation in the Constitution, namely to confirm and anchor what has already been achieved, is also valid for age. Then there is also the argument to be able to monitor the case properly for age. It is too common and too many people suffer from it. Monitoring this case is simply necessary. I would remind you once again of the Minister's letter: discrimination is most often experienced on the grounds of age, despite the fact that we are taking great steps to combat it. Then I would like to comment on the alleged ranking between appointed and unappointed grounds. The Council of State states that the purpose of the amendment is to minimise the scope for the legislator. I do not think that is the difference between appointed and unappointed grounds. I'm holding on to the distinction I've discussed before. We explicitly appoint a ground to anchor what we have already achieved and to better monitor the case. I distance myself from the argument that naming a ground means giving the legislator less room for functional distinction. Functional distinction must be possible in any case, whether or not a ground has been explicitly appointed. Thirdly, a single remark on the Constitution in relation to other laws. The Council of State states that the legislator needs a high degree of freedom to make functional distinctions by age. According to the Council of State, this area is already limited by the general prohibition of discrimination and international conventions, but it should not be further restricted by explicit appointment. It's legal reasoning on the edge of the cut. It is the formulation of a narrow balance, which can spread to one side, but also to the other, because when will that space become too small? I prefer to ask a question of principle. Does the law determine the content of the Constitution or is it the other way round and the Constitution determines the law? As far as I'm concerned, it's the last one. The Constitution lays down fundamental rights that must be safeguarded. At the same time, despite the fact that age discrimination is sometimes desirable, do we want to limit unauthorized discrimination? Of course we do. Is the society for naming age in Article 1? Yes, because we've already taken several steps together. Finally, the question remains as to whether I might be getting ahead with my proposal. I don't think so. I don't call myself a visionary. I can feel what's happening here and now in society. I see it already confirmed in the laws and informal organizations. I read it back in international research and in this minister's letters. The legislator must, of course, be able to make a functional distinction by age, but it is also very important to combat unjustified age discrimination. Age discrimination is the order of the day. We have to take that into account as co-legislator. We need to be crystal clear. Anyone who is in favour of this initiative proposal should vote in favour of this amendment on the basis of the same reasoning. Isn't it just a matter of taste? How sober should the Constitution be or how many grounds should there be? Disrespectfully said, isn't it going to be a Christmas tree with too many balls? I choose a lot of balls. Indeed, concrete fundamental rights are more important than the abstract discussion on the nature of the Constitution, especially if such a right deserves special attention. And remember, many countries preceded us; countries like Switzerland, Finland, Portugal, Serbia, New Zealand, Canada and South Africa. They thought that extra Christmas ball was worth it. I hope you do, too. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u97	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. I'll take a look at the initiators. They can go right through. I call Mrs Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to everyone who contributed to our legislative proposal, of course, especially the Members of Parliament. I think we had a nice discussion today, a nice debate. We've been going over the subject from several sides. I think that, when our legislative proposal comes to the vote next week and hopefully gets a majority, we have made another very important contribution to our Dutch society, in which the existing core values of equality and non-discrimination are central. Mr. Chairman. There have been few questions, but I would like to comment on a number of points. I would also like to express my thanks to the messengers, because they have taken very good care of us today, in all safety and hygiene. That was really nice. We could concentrate on our story and for the rest everything was arranged perfectly well, so we thank you for that. Mr. Chairman. We have talked about the fear that the Constitution is sober and should remain sober, but we feel that there should also be room for some change and flexibility. That is, of course, the reason why the proposers have come up with this bill. When we consider that since 1983 nothing has changed to Article 1 of the Constitution, I would also say to Mr Van Dijk, I am not so afraid of the Christmas tree with Christmas balls. We are talking about it very early in the year, I notice that! Anyway... By the way, I agree with our Minister's remark that we cannot look into the future and that it would best be possible at the moment that constitutional maturity and social acceptance exist and that it complies with the ratio set out in Article 1 of the Constitution. Maybe. It's a cliffhanger. I hope that at least your group believes that these two grounds, disability and sexual orientation, deserve to be included in Article 1 of the Constitution. I also think it is very nice that the various Members have used all kinds of terms for our Constitution to indicate its importance. Mr Renkema spoke of a compass. It has been made very clear that this is not just about land. I would like to emphasise this on behalf of the proposers. These are personal characteristics with a history of exclusion, disadvantage and even persecution. Ms Ploumen mentioned the Constitution as a guide. I think it is important that we can guarantee, guarantee and strengthen that when it comes to discrimination. Mr Van der Molen said that austerity is important and that you must have a long life. I think that constitutional maturity has been well confirmed in our story. We had a very nice discussion with each other, Mr. Bishop. I must advise against your amendment. I know that there is always a lot of work in an amendment, but we do not think it is desirable and we think it sends the wrong signal. We have discussed the value of adding two grounds versus all the grounds out. I think that your idea is not constitutionally mature, even in view of the reactions in the Chamber. We're gonna vote on it next week, and we're gonna go through it together. Thank you for the fine words of my colleague from D66, Mr Bouali, who said that hopefully next week we can take another nice step. I am also looking at Mr Van Gent of the VVD. I think we need to extend our financial paragraph a little bit. If this is to become a reality, it means that a lot of municipalities need things to happen. Whether or not my colleagues will willingly modify all the benches and other attributes is the question. Well, at least let's hope it happens. I would like to give a more detailed account of Mr Krol. I must say, respect for his passion and mission. I love that. We disagree when it comes to the interpretation of the Council of State. Are you a visionary? It could be. During the discussion in 1983 we saw that the time was not ripe for the basic'sexual orientation', because of the prevailing beliefs at that time. The time was not ripe for the ground "disability" because a number of practical objections were seen. Anyway, that's the beauty of our Constitution. The law is sober and stable, but there is always room for discussion and perhaps change. I leave it to the Minister to reflect on this in greater detail, if necessary, in view of the opinion of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u99	There is an interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u100	I understand that Mrs Bergkamp is doing the answer right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u101	That's right; maybe I should have mentioned that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u102	That is not a problem, but I would like to respond a little more carefully to Mr Krol's perplexed speech. Mrs Bergkamp says that in 1983 "disability" and "sexual orientation" were not yet ripe, but they are now. But that also applies to age discrimination, doesn't it? It was a very well-founded speech by Mr Krol. Age discrimination is most common. Why wouldn't you take that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u103	I would like to thank Mr Van Dijk for asking me this question so that I can explain it a little more. We have talked about this constitutional maturity. That's important. This acceptance of society is also important when it comes to amending our Constitution. I think it is important to point out together that age discrimination is a social problem. That is what the proposers have indicated, as has the Minister. Discrimination, on any ground, is not allowed. The same applies to age discrimination. The question in today's debate is: should you include that ground in Article 1 of the Constitution? The Council of State advises not to do so and we take that advice. Why? Because it's a different type of land. When it comes to Article 1 of the Constitution, there are suspect grounds in advance. There are grounds in which there is a greater presumption of discrimination. In other words, it must be perfectly possible to justify the existence of a legal distinction. The Council of State has also supported this with a number of examples that age is actually a functional criterion for everyone to have a certain age................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So, Mr. Chairman, no discrimination is allowed, not even in age. It's a social problem. We need to address that, but this is about the discussion of whether you should include the ground in Article 1 of the Constitution. We don't think so. The Commission's legal effects on non-discrimination grounds, i.e. the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, also point out that there is still a legal danger, namely inflationary effects. If you include other grounds that do not reflect the nature of Article 1 of the Constitution, then it may be that the legislator and even the judge can give less weight to them. Quite frankly, that was a convincing argument for the proposers. Unfortunately, I am just saying, because I also respect the speech and the work contained in the amendment, but we must discourage Mr Krol's amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u104	This is the functional distinction that can be made on the basis of age, for example for a driving licence, voting rights, pension etc. Fine. That is what Mr Krol said. That's possible, but that's different from unauthorized age-based discrimination. And then I thought it very well that Mr Krol said: that functional distinction can even be made in the case of race and gender. For example, looking for an actor, someone Martin Luther King needs to play. At that time, distinction on the basis of race may be permitted. Then I think: here again the point of arbitrariness sneaks in. Why not include age in your bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u105	When it comes to equal treatment, that doesn't mean treating everyone equally. Equal treatment in equal cases and unequal treatment, to the extent of inequality. That is also why we have the General Law on Equal Treatment and we also have the law on equal treatment in terms of age. Within the General Law on Equal Treatment, we have ourselves done that legal treatment.... positive discrimination on certain grounds is objectively justified. We are actually talking about the discussion on the General Equal Treatment Act. However, we continue to support the opinion of the Council of State, which we accept, that age is a different type of non-discrimination ground compared to the grounds explicitly covered by it. You can differ on that, but that is an essential difference. And the risk which the Commission has also identified as non-discrimination grounds of law: if you include too many other types of grounds, then that legal protection also decreases against the legislator and also what the judge can ultimately do with it. And we think that's a risk, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u106	An interruption by Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u107	I have spoken with emphasis about justified and unjustified discrimination. But I have to say how do you say that with some sort of déjà vu reminiscent of the period when we were together in a different position for the opening up of civil marriage? At that time, while everyone was making fools of us, we were the first country in the world to do so. Many other countries have followed us. And now it's the other way around. We see that many other countries have incorporated age discrimination into the Constitution and we are now lagging behind. And I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u108	Once again, I respect Mr Krol's passion and also his commitment to equal treatment and the fight against discrimination. But I think it is really important to assume that we do see the social problem. We also believe that discrimination is unlawful on any ground, only the legal question: does it fit into the list of explicit grounds of Article 1 of the Constitution? And yes, I can only say to Mr Krol: hang in there! I think Mr Krol is going to do the same. Make an initiative bill! Go do it! We did, because we believe in what we're doing. And perhaps there will come a time when your idea will have constitutional maturity. But as we have now had the debate with each other, we see risks and think it is a different type of land that is more functional and not a premeditated land which is therefore more discriminatory, and that is why it does not fit in with the list as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u109	The amendments to documents Nos. 11 and 12 have been dissuaded. Then I think there's another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u110	Thank you. I'll leave the motion to the Minister. This brings me to the end, on behalf of the co-initiators, of our second term. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u111	Thank you. Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u112	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I always wait till I get the word, but I already got it. Apologies. I should like to comment briefly on the Bishop amendment and on the Krol amendment. There is also a question by Mr Jasper van Dijk and a motion by Mr Van der Molen. I shall begin with Mr Bishop's amendment. We've already talked about it in the first place. I do not want to repeat everything I said at the time, but I think it is important to say once again that enlargement for two reasons is fair in the eyes of the cabinet. It is appropriate to what the Constitution is and what it expresses, and is complementary to the five grounds already in it: religion, belief, political orientation, race and gender. It is also important to underline that, moreover, Mr Bishop himself has also said that the explicit grounds deserve greater protection. A distinction on those grounds is suspect in advance and is therefore subject to stricter judicial review. There must be a stronger justification than for the non-explicit grounds. As far as the cabinet is concerned, this enhanced legal protection is justified by the nature of the grounds, which were very important in the first period. The cabinet does not consider the removal of these grounds from Article 1 to be desirable and a wrong signal. For this reason, I also understand that the initiators do not recommend the amendment. As a result, Mr Van Dijk asked, and I think he really asked me: what if Mr Bishop's amendment is adopted? Where does that lead? Does that lead to the amendment of the Constitution? First of all, of course, the question is whether this will happen. Even if that happens here at first reading, it must also be done in the Upper House. Then there's still ratification to be done. Then there is the second reading. However, I will honestly say that the cabinet is not in favour of the removal of these grounds from the Constitution. That means I'd have to go back to the Council of Ministers with that. It is a then situation, so I do not want to anticipate something that may not occur at all, but it is also part of dissuading that I would not want to anticipate what the cabinet would do with it. Mr. Chairman. I come to Mr Krol's amendment and what he has just said about age and age discrimination. He referred in his contribution just now to a letter which I believe I sent to the Chamber last week or the week before. It states that age discrimination is most often experienced in the Netherlands. That is correct, but I would like to add that this applies equally to land age, gender and origin. All of these three forms of discrimination were experienced by 10% of those interviewed. This is the result of the SCP study on experienced discrimination. Age was age here, so that was true for the elderly, but so were young people. It wasn't just about the elderly, but I can see the problem. Nevertheless, the Cabinet agrees with the Council of State that age discrimination currently has a different character and history than the other grounds. I have just said that you should not rule out the possibility at any time, but as far as the cabinet is concerned, the discussions are still in full swing and far from crystallized. As far as the cabinet is concerned, the time is not yet ripe to include age as an explicit ground. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Van der Molen motion. I find the motion very sympathetic and I also understand the background to his concern. Only the motion is rather open-minded. I need to think for a moment about the demarcation, because it can potentially be about anything, from labour market discrimination to criminal law. We have to look in the definition whether we are going to talk about unfair discrimination: the age of voters, the corona measures, the age of AOW. It's very wide. In fact, I would suggest to Mr Van der Molen that we hold the motion until next week. Then there is another debate, at least the AO on discrimination. We might as well think very carefully about the demarcation and then I can also give an opinion. As I said, I think it is a nice motion, but I am also asked to do it before 1 January. I'm afraid that if we don't have exactly the same expectations about the demarcation, I would now commit something that I can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u113	Mr Van der Molen agrees with the continuation of the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u114	Sure. Next week is of course the last week we have before the summer recess. I would like to have some contact with you on this matter in the short term. It is common for broader motions to be tabled, followed by written responses from the cabinet, so that the Chamber can be included. Let me just hold the motion and look at the vote next week. We'll have a little more time to talk. I'd be fine with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u115	At the request of Mr Van der Molen, I propose his motion (32411), No. 15). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u116	Much appreciated. Well, that's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u117	Thank you. Then we came to the end of the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-34.u118	The initiative law and the two amendments will be voted on next Tuesday. Thanks in any case to the initiators and also to the Minister, and good luck in the votes.
