ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the legislative proposal Updating of the adequacy requirements of basic education. A warm welcome to the Minister, to my colleagues and to the people in the public gallery, whom I have just been touring. Nice to see you again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u2	We are about to begin, and first I would like to give the floor to Mr Kwint of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that we now and then look at the standards, the requirements that each school should meet. Let me take away the greatest tension from the debate: the changes that are now being made make sense to me. However, I do have a question about timing. In the explanatory memorandum of the law itself, the government states that there are still several changes to be made, so we are going to talk about this again in the foreseeable future, but it did not want to wait for those changes. Then why this relative haste? In the meantime, the debate has also been postponed a few times, so there was no screaming rush. But why, now, these changes? And when can we expect the next changes to come? For example, a significant part of these requirements is linked to the revision of the curriculum; a process in which we are now, let me put it neutrally, in the middle. Part of the criticism of the way in which we organized our education was, for example, heard during the round tables last Monday. Let me mention a few points of criticism. We have to do things that work; there are really things to say about it from science. That's one. Because of the misery that is certainly being poured out about students with fewer opportunities, I am now in favour of stricter requirements. Two. Everything happens, without looking at whether there is any evidence for it. From time to time, I have the feeling that we will be discussing this revision of the curriculum until the end of the day, so I understand that the Minister has not put those changes into this proposal. But that does not mean that we should not be talking about whether we should expect a certain, more stringent evidence of schools. Should we not expect schools not only to write down an educational vision in their school plan, but at least to indicate what that vision is based on? Should the scientific basis of what we do in education not only have a place in, for example, the definition of the curriculum, but also simply be expected from educational institutions themselves? Kids aren't lab rabbits. And yes, schools have the freedom to organise their own education. But at least we can expect them to be able to refer to relevant scientific literature which states why the choices they make, in the interest of their pupils, are in the interest of the quality of education of that child? To this end, we have tabled an amendment on which Mr Van Meenen has a question, I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u4	That's right. I understand very well what Mr Kwint wants and intends to do, namely that we do not get madness, foolishness and unproven nonsense. On the other hand, for example, primary schools are not scientific institutes. And school directors are generally not doctored researchers. So where is Mr Kwint's job or the question he wants to ask? Is it enough, for example, to say that I have a montessori school here, so see the works of Maria Montessori? I'm just trying to figure it out. Because I do feel something for it, but I want to prevent us from having endless discussions, including with the inspection, about the scientific basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u5	Let me say in advance to Mr Van Meenen that I am not under any illusions. I do not think that the fact that there should be a scientific basis means that the many tribal struggles that are being waged in our education about what is good education have been ended. Science is not always consistent about what education should look like either. All we want is for the school plan to be deepened and for it to be said: "We base our education on this vision. We have seen over the past ten years that this vision of education, for example, is leading to good results for our students.' So no, just a reference to Maria Montessori's collected works doesn't strike me as enough. You don't have to turn in an approved paper, which comes through a peer review journal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u6	It is important because what we say to each other here is also part of the legal history. So that only matters for that reason. I'm really curious. I think that education, pedagogy and call it all out at no rocket science, even in the sense that I think there is a lot of evidence for very different approaches.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u7	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u8	They fight each other sometimes, too. Let us take the debate on computational education alone. I think you can find a lot of scientific research that advocates that you have to offer bare sums to kids, that you have to stomp tables and you name it all. But I think there are also people who think they have proven that you should do that in context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u9	A little shorter, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u10	So I'm just wondering... I am trying to get a little more precise what is now the goal and what exactly is the question that is being asked about schools. Let me ask you quite simply: what should be the size of that reference? What is Mr Kwint thinking about? Is it a ten-page hangover in the school guide, or...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u11	I don't think a five or six-page literature list should be included. I agree with Mr Van Meenen that there are indeed different methods left with recourse to science. It is not the intention at all to have one amendment here on a Wednesday evening, and I see Mr Bishop standing there now to destroy the whole freedom of education. All we ask is: support, also with a reference to relevant research, why you do what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u12	First of all, thank you for the compliment. I am referring to the fact that Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u13	Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u14	This should go better tomorrow, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u15	...Kwint sees a colleague standing and immediately has the association with the freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u16	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u17	That's a big good. We all cherish that. Everyone does this a bit in their own way, but the binding thing is that we all cherish it. We have to keep doing that. That is why I would like to ask you about the responsibility of the educational vision. I have tried to get a picture of this, also in connection with the amendment, but I cannot. Maybe you could help me out a little bit. What exactly is that? You cannot be satisfied with a reference to Maria Montessori's collected works, which is a proven method for some children. Then I'd say, "That's enough, isn't it?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u18	Here's what I was trying to say. The quality requirements already state that we expect schools to set out their educational vision in their school plan. The only thing we want to add to that is that they have based that vision of education on. Then the answer "I thought of that on the beach in Marbella" is not enough. I will charge you now, because I believe that the people who draw up the school plans take that task a little more seriously than I say now. It refers, for example, to relevant studies on what does and what does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u19	But as far as those scientific studies are concerned, they sometimes vary per decade, sometimes per year. One time this is particularly in the interest, the other time that. I would ask because I am very afraid that, in order to meet this requirement, a kind of market will be created by suppliers who are ripping in educational money again, which cannot then be spent on the primary process. I would therefore like to see a little more concreteness and a little more clarity on the idea that it should be based on something, that one should answer and say on which it is based. If someone comes up with an exceptionally brilliant, original idea, an idea for which no evidence has been shown from literature, and which fits in with the existing school culture, works with it and succeeds, then what is against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u20	Well, I have a few things against that. First of all, you can only decide afterwards if it was a brilliant idea. For every brilliant idea someone has invented, seven or eight of them may have been killed. This idea didn't come out of the sky. It comes directly from the conclusions drawn, among other things, by the education inspection in the State of Education last year. They say: we increasingly see in education that all kinds of new, sympathetic-sounding things are being carried out in a school, with the children as victims, without any obvious evidence. They have said: you should think about whether that should be stricter. We have taken the lead in doing so by means of the Law more room for new schools. The minister said: yes, but you can't just do it for new schools; you have to do it for all schools. And that's how we ended up here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u21	Mr. Bishop, I'm gonna be tough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u23	Because the length of the interruptions also forces me to do it in two at least. You can talk about this for hours and ask questions about it. So I will allow one short question, but you have actually already had two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u24	Mr President, you deserve a spontaneous hug.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u25	Look.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u26	Thank you very much for your kindness. This is a very convenient point. What is the room for schools? And what threat is there when it comes to all kinds of consulting firms and institutions that are going to re-enter it? That is the point I would like to ask Mr Kwint to take into account in his further considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u27	Are you willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u28	I am certainly prepared to do so. It does seem to me to be something we should avoid. It is also the reason why I told Mr Van Meenen that it should not be literature references of six pages long. Of course, there will have to be a middle ground in this, but nothing has been included in the validity requirements, and that is not going far enough for my party. And now that I see Mr Beertema coming up, I do not know whether this can be officially said that this does not go far enough for his party either. He has just become a co-author of this amendment. I don't know if I can do that orally...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u29	Mr. Beertema, would you mind saying something about that yourself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u30	Well, yes, I did become a co-sponsor, but I'd also like to ask Mr. Kwint a question about it. Isn't it true that he's actually trying to set up a dam against all kinds of trendy educational concepts such as iPad schools, personalized learning, competence-oriented learning and self-discovery learning? Those are proven ineffective concepts. Would you like to put a dam on that with this amendment? 'Cause that was my idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u31	This is the amendment to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution. 10, is that right? Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u32	Yes. I think. I don't know if all the methods in your list are proven ineffective. In general, I say: yes, it is my intention to erect a dam against being able to carry out things that you can suspect or know are proven ineffective. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u33	Then I am reassured and I am glad to be able to endorse this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u34	Okay. Mr. Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u35	I think it is a noble ambition that is being pursued here, namely that these unproven, ineffective forms of education will not be given room in our education. I have a feeling for that, but I see two values coming across from the field of education on this amendment. One, annoying, judgment from the educational group is: nonsensical. Well, that's a value judgment, so I'm not doing anything with that. But the second judgment is that it's impossible. Have you considered the feasibility of your amendment? Because that's what I need to see if it could possibly get some support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u36	I'm glad Mr. Heerema read along. Yesterday, I did indeed have half an evening in detail and, as far as I am concerned, very insightful discussions with all kinds of teachers, who in no time had all kinds of opinions on this matter. Indeed a part says: this should have happened long ago; finally settle this. That was usually followed by: I don't think you're gonna get it done. And another part says, trust our professional autonomy. I certainly have that high and I wouldn't want to restrict it, but the professionalism of a teacher also means, in my opinion, that he can explain his vision in such a school plan. There were indeed questions about feasibility, such as: is the inspection capable of doing so? That is a question I also have for the Minister. Would it be necessary to make any changes to the inspection? But it was the inspection itself that rang the bell with us. She said: boys, this is getting out of hand; we have to do something about this. In that sense, therefore, I assume that if the inspection says to us 'do something about it', it will also be able to implement it itself if we do something about it. But if it isn't, I'd like to hear it from the Minister. Then we'll have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u37	You will continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u38	Sure. A brief word on some of the amendments proposed in this bill, starting with the school guide. The time of the leave under the landline with a telephone book, the golden guide, the school guide and the telephone tree with all classmates will not come back. We can therefore imagine anything that you would delete the obligation to issue a booklet. But we now read in the law that the school guide should only be made available. Isn't that a little passive? The school guide contains quite a few rights and duties for students. Shouldn't parents at least be actively reminded that there is such a thing as a school guide and that they can find it online? Another point concerns the failure to act and the way in which it is handled. In our opinion, there is a slight discrepancy. Something is an obligation of the municipality or something is an obligation of the inspection. If we read the law correctly, there is, as far as we are concerned, a somewhat miraculous discrepancy. We're gonna see if a municipality can or will do the failure registration and the approach to it, or else the inspection will do it, if I understand it correctly. Isn't that a recipe for ambiguity? And what about the willingness of municipalities? You're not going to make the inspection of compulsory education dependent on whether a municipality has any sense or time for that? Wouldn't it be more obvious, as a legislator, to make a decision about it in advance? I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of that. What we are more enthusiastic about is attracting the reins at schools that deal with money in such a way that they are threatened with their own mischief. However, we wonder what this is going to be like in practice, because according to the law, the funds must be'managed in such a way that continuity is not compromised'. That's quite a complex matter. How direct is that gonna look in the end? Is there going to be a light on orange at some point after which the inspection says: don't buy a new copier? How are we supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u39	Does Mr Kwint not agree with me that there is a certain risk in it if you are to make continuity as clearly as necessary? Does this not also result in behaviour such as saving, building more reserves and so on, because continuity is set as a sort of highest asset?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u40	Well, highest good... We've received the list of due diligence requirements. That's 32 A4s. So at least it's the highest good next to a whole lot of other highest good guys. But I wouldn't have looked at it that way, I have to tell you honestly. I understand what you mean, but I do not think that this would be my first concern with the wording that has been chosen, because it is really talking about a concrete danger to continuity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u41	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u42	He's given up, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u43	Or he was happy with your answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u44	Oh, yeah, that approach is a lot better. We fear that the financial sanctions, which are ultimately more threatened, are not one that really frightens the average driver. This amounts to a maximum sanction of 1.25% of the total budget. So you're talking about two and a half days of school. Is that the threat the inspection would want? It's complicated with fines. Because with a fine on the other hand, do you not run the risk that an administration already in a financial situation will get into even more trouble? I understand that at a later stage we'll be thinking about the soap opera around the Haga Lyceum. But when it comes to this point, I would like to ask one question. One of the points on which the Minister addressed this school was a financial point. Does the Minister think that the inspection would have been stronger with this tightening up of the adequacy requirements? I understand that it might be complicated to talk about the specific case. But do these stricter requirements generally allow inspection to intervene more quickly when there is a suspicion of financial malpractice? Another matter that will not surprise the Minister, because he was also extensively discussed and announced in the discussion on the Law more room for new schools: segregation in education. It was a complex consideration for us, but it is precisely for this reason that we have finally voted against the Law on more room for new schools. We believe that this law has left the door too wide open for further integration. But now that the Chamber has decided to offer this space, of course we will not stop fighting. We'd be crazy! I think Mr Westerveld is still in a debate, but we have, together with GroenLinks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u45	She's in an AO Youth, but she'll be here soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u46	It's very important, too. Together with my colleague, Mr Westerveld, I have tabled a proposal to place the fight against segregation on the merits. We propose that schools should be included in the consultation within municipalities already mentioned, which has recently been revived with thanks, among other things, to my colleague Jasper van Dijk. I am very curious to know what the Minister thinks of that. Finally, I'm gonna have time for this week's Angry Parents were in the news, a group of parents who are worried about their children who can't find a place in our education system. Often they are children with an additional care or guidance question, who do not receive that care or guidance. They are parents of children who are actually abandoned by our education system and who have been told for years that it is very annoying, but that we are not going to think about it until we start evaluating the appropriate education law. I've been saying for years: that's taking me far too long. But in the meantime, it's only a few months before we talk about it. But there must be a lot of things that can already be done within this law. The duty of care and quite a few other matters arising from the Appropriate Education Act are already included in the adequacy requirements. They are laid down in the Law of appropriate education. The Angry Parents had a conversation with the Education Inspectorate this week. If I may believe the various interview reports, I have also called a number of people about them. The inspection indicates that the current problems are partly a political choice. Monitoring from the inspection is often only about a covering supply within the region. An individual school does not have all, but a great deal of space in it not to comply with all, for example, the obligation to care for a school. This leads to the fact that the inspection itself is in fact a matter for action and does not know at what points an individual school can be addressed. It awaits a sharper instruction for supervision in the field of appropriate education. Has the Minister taken note of this? Does he want to talk to these parents with the inspection or not? We voted against the appropriate education Act, but we do believe that within this law many more children should be able to find a suitable place. Does the Minister share the analysis that politics is primarily committed to doing something about enforcement? Then I'll be happy to write another motion tonight. My reading so far is that a whole bunch of the demands we make on schools are already part of the law and the adequacy requirements. If we can change anything for these children with a minor intervention, I suggest that we do so tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I call Mrs van den Hul of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we are talking about standards. These are the demands we make on education quality and financial management. Both are currently under heavy pressure in many schools. Before I go into more detail on the legislative proposal, I would like to start by asking how, according to the Minister, all this relates to the harsh reality, a reality that is more dramatic by the day. Yesterday we received a letter of fire from the G4 stating that there are so many vacancies at the moment "that there is no guarantee of good education, that the deficits are much greater than previously estimated by the Minister and that the consequences are even more severe in schools with many children at risk of retardation." The four aldermen asked the Minister in that letter for the appropriate frameworks for good education for all children, so that "emergency measures do not become the new norm in education and do not have negative effects on educational quality and equality." What we see now is that this cabinet does want to stretch the law, but does not want to spend the extra money it needs. Let me just say once more: we do not solve the problems in our education with occasional money. These problems call for structural investment. My question to the Minister is how this letter of fire with that shocking message that the quality of our education cannot be guaranteed at the moment because of the shortage of teachers, now relates to the law before us this evening. What does this mean for the inspection frameworks? How far is the Minister prepared to extend that law and where does he set the line? Mr. Chairman. This bill is intended to update the adequacy requirements. In our view, part of that update is only logical. For example, we welcome the involvement of municipalities in monitoring and combating school drop-outs. But we also have a number of questions for the Minister, first of all in the area of citizenship. Schools have already been kept at the limits for statements and actions that are contrary to the prohibition of discrimination, but with the legislative proposal now submitted clarification of the citizenship mandate of schools in basic education, this will also be considered as a requirement of validity. Good education prepares children and young people for our pluralist society. In this respect, it is a bad thing for schools to focus entirely and exclusively on their own circle, something that we unfortunately encounter too many examples of in practice. Since 2006, citizenship has also been part of the core objectives and it is intended that schools organise that pupils also meet peers from different backgrounds than themselves. Of course, schools may give form to this latter element in different ways, but it should also be made a need for substance in the PvdA. What's the Minister's position on that? The Minister stated in his note following the report that he considered the choice of teaching resources to be the subject of the autonomy of schools. Now we have recently been faced with educational resources that are sometimes even totally discriminatory, for example against Ihbtis. What possibilities does the Minister see for the inspection here to do more than just watch or, if you like, look away? More generally, to what extent does this bill improve the way in which the inspection can monitor the social security of, for example, lhbti pupils and teachers at school? That is a subject that we have debated extensively today. Mr. Chairman. Luckily, sexual diversity has been an integral part of the core objectives of fundamental education for a long time, but not all schools pay as much attention to this as it is intended. That's what we've seen before. Also for themes such as sexual education and sexual resilience, not all schools have enough room. During the examination of the legislative proposal more room for new schools already opened up a discussion about schools with separate lessons for boys and girls, of which we unfortunately know a number in the Netherlands. There are also several examples of schools where boys are not allowed to wear shorts and girls only have a skirt or a dress. Can the Minister explain to what extent this bill will change the extent to which the inspection could monitor this? With the bill More room for new schools will also become the prerequisite for the establishment of new schools. Already in the course of examining that law, I expressed my concern about the increasing segregation in education, which was also noted by the inspection in the State of Education. What possibilities does the inspection have to address these so-called booth schools? The Minister may, in whole or in part, withhold or suspend the funding of a school if it does not comply with the Law on participation in schools. Does this also mean that the inspection will now be actively checking whether the school management and participation councils are sufficiently informed and acting if the school management is too easy for the mr to be informed that the mr is not dealing with this particular issue? This legislative proposal concerns validity requirements that are considered as conditions of funding, but we are not there, because the Netherlands also has non-feasible education. As far as we are concerned, the government should also ensure that there is real education within the meaning of the Law on compulsory education. We are looking forward to the Minister's response to this. Finally, Mr President, a point which I, as spokesperson, share as spokesperson of emancipation. This legislative proposal no longer requires the presentation of a separate document on the proportional representation of women in the school leadership. This can be taken from now on through the school plan. The House has recently decided by a majority that there will be a quota for women at the top of the business world, but what is the Minister doing to promote diversity in the boardroom of publicly funded educational institutions? Then why delete this demand? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u49	Thank you. Mr Bishop of the SGP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u50	Thank you, Mr President. In preparing this debate I had to think of a Bible story, the story of the wise and the foolish builder. The wise man founded his house on a rock. He builds a foundation on which he builds his house. The foolish builder builds away just a little bit, just on the sand. With that he was of course a lot cheaper and faster finished. Maybe that house looked even nicer too; that's not in that story, by the way. If you are interested, by the way: I refer to the Bible book Matthew, chapter 7. When it started raining and storming, however, the essential difference between the two buildings turned out to be. The wise builder's house stood still, resisted that violence, and the foolish builder's house collapsed. Mr. Chairman. This story, of course, relates primarily to personal life, the personal perspective of the future. That's why it was told by Christ. But it also has a broader wisdom in it, a wider working wisdom. We have the fact that when you build something, you have to provide a solid foundation. That is a wisdom of life which we can all benefit from. If the government wants to take action, you need a proper legal basis to make the application. Otherwise, the legal structure will collapse with the judge in no time. We have recently seen some unpleasant examples of this. Mr. Chairman. The SGP welcomes the fact that the inspection initiative law has actually led to improvements. The key point was that a clear distinction had to be made between hard legal requirements and own insights from inspection or from politics, or from any angle. It was too much of a mix-up. More attention needs to be paid to the status and content of legal requirements. Fortunately, I see a lot of good examples, but unfortunately I still see too many old reflexes, which make schools misplaced. I'll mention a few. Recently, despite justified criticism in the Rings consultation, the inspection decided to include in the supervisory framework the monitoring of efficiency, while it was known that it could take more than a year before the legislator could decide whether this would be desirable or not. Then the inspection would be a little too much for the troops, I'd say. A second example is the area of citizenship. I am regularly told by schools that when they visit, they are made aware of errors based on the principles of a legislative proposal that has not even been discussed in this Chamber. The third example concerns kindergarten tests. The cabinet clearly stated in 2018 that kindergarten tests are undesirable and that the school can choose how to follow kindergarten. But what does the Expert Group Keys on the site say to schools? From 2022 you may only use standardized keys. When questioned, the inspection confirms that this has not yet been decided but that it is expected that the legislator will make this mandatory. My question is: how will the Minister prevent us from pushing schools in this undesirable way in a particular direction? This affects the educational, didactic freedom which is also part of the freedom of education. We have tabled an amendment on the kindergarten tests, together with colleagues Rog and Van Meenen. We have found that the articles of law on apprenticeship follow-up are not sufficiently clear and also offer too little security to schools. For example, the explanatory notes on these articles contain contradictory texts. The amendment makes it clear that the way schools follow students is really a choice of professionals. In the interests of the pupils, we should not limit this choice to standardized tests of commercial parties. The amendment also lays down the choice of the cabinet that compulsory tests for preschool children are not in any case relevant. As far as reference levels are concerned, we are putting our hands in our own right, because the initiative proposal has given the impression that the reference levels are also intended for earlier years of primary school, and that is not the case. That was a wrong perception. The first reference level starts at the end of Group 8 and the amendment withdraws this right. In the context of updating standards, this is an important amendment for us which provides more clarity for schools. Madam President. Then there's financial supervision. The government extends the monitoring of the continuity of institutions to primary and secondary education. There is no doubt that the SGP is capable of doing so. Continuity is better to set clear standards than efficiency. But why does the government not choose to lay down these standards in more detailed rules on the basis of a legal basis rather than leave this task to the supervisory framework? Mr. Chairman. The monitoring of efficiency remains difficult. I have asked the Minister for a comparison with other sectors. The Minister replied that he preferred to look at other sectors of education rather than other sectors of society. This is understandable, because the picture in other social sectors shows that monitoring efficiency is not or is not workable and is hardly functional. Supervisors in the care, corporation or financial institutions do not supervise efficiency. There are policy letters, but no legal standards. The Council of State also indicates that the concept of "inefficient" is too open to monitor. This means that you do not have enough foundation to deal with a school where there is a noticeable error. You don't solve this either by putting "evident" in front of it: evidently inefficient. It's possible, but none of that's gonna make much of a difference. My question is why the government does not learn from this that this is actually not a sufficient basis. Is it fair to deal with schools differently from other semi-public sectors? The government states that it would not be possible to define in advance categories of inefficiency. I'd still like to make an attempt to doubt that. For this, I refer to the example of the rules on top incomes. The legislator considers it undesirable for institutions to spend more money on certain salaries than the ceilings laid down in the law. Why is this not an example of preventing inefficiency? In such a way, could you give concrete substance to that? In that line you might also be able to think of a number of other categories. You may be able to think of other expenditure for which the funding is not intended, for example excessive PR costs or special staff parties. The SGP considers this to be preferable to the difficult criterion of "evidently inefficientness." Let us make no mistake about it: the SGP is a warm advocate of efficient spending of funds and is keen to see that it is clearly monitored and monitored. However, as you will see, we are looking for ways in which we can lay the foundations so that you can use them. Mr. Chairman. In any case, it is desirable for the legislator himself to give more explanation by including criteria in more detailed rules. The amendment together with Mr Rog, co-signed by Mr Heerma, is therefore very important to us. I do not want to say "essentially important" but very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u51	I'm being triggered by that categorization. Some time ago, in committee, we discussed the question of hiring teachers, for example, through temporary employment agencies. Have you made this plea with such a category in mind? So, for example, the hiring of teachers through temporary employment agencies could be a valid requirement which could allow us to steer over these excessive costs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u52	Thank you for this question. It gives some more detail and coloration to this argument. I can very well imagine that, for example, you are coming to certain limits in this area on a well-considered basis. On the one hand, as a school leader, you will say: "Empty agency or not, that English should be given. I need someone. No one responds to our calls that are competent and competent, but I do have an offer from a temporary agency." But if you set maximum limits, you're more or less protecting that sector from exploitation, abuse of that kind of public resources. So I'd like to think about that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u53	I think we're pretty much on the same page, so I think we can talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u54	Yes, please. Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u55	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u56	The final point concerns the supervision of the MBO. The law is not clear about the supervision of very weak education. In secondary vocational education, the competent authority does not have the possibility to object to the judgment "very weak." My colleagues Rog and Van Meenen and I do not think that is right. For these institutions, this judgment can have significant consequences, such as image damage. Equal treatment therefore makes sense, we think. We therefore hope that the Minister will be able to give this amendment a positive opinion. Mr President, I should like to leave it at that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u57	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u58	Mr President, thank you very much. The law we are discussing tonight stems from the initiative law of Mr Bishop, Mr Rog and myself to change inspection supervision, which we managed to guide through both chambers a few years ago. That law meant that there would be a clear distinction for the inspection and for the schools between checking and checking for soundness and stimulating quality as a critical friend. All we hear about that is that it works well. But with this amendment, we also found that the adequacy requirements needed a freshening up. That is why we are looking critically at this today. My first point concerns financial continuity. The legislative amendment strengthens the supervision of financial continuity and sets the foundational education in this respect equal to higher education. Continuity is not the biggest asset in education for D66. That's good education for every student. In recent years, we have had more problems with excessive reserves than with falling schools. Instead of saving a lot of money, we are trying to encourage schools to go a little sharper, so that all educational investments are put in the right place, with teachers and students in the classroom. How are these things related to each other? Are the current continuity paragraph and the audit report not sufficient? How many schools have actually fallen over the last ten years? Does this new intention not lead to further excessive reserves in response? The Minister may feel strengthened by the fact that even Mr Kwint does not think so, although he is also very critical of the increasing reserves. But I have so badly understood that I have given up asking him about this, so I expect a more sensible answer from the Minister who owed that to Mr Kwint! Mr. Chairman. Is it wise to implement this change even before the adequacy study is completed? Why do we not limit excessive reserves at the same time, for example with a 'pass-to-lay' principle, within the requirements of soundness? That is a bit in line with what Mr Bishop has just said about this. Mr. Chairman. This law provides scope to test for obvious inefficient spending. D66 considers this to be a vague concept, like the SGP. Can the Minister explain this further? For example, can education and non-educational spending ratios or other criteria help to clarify this further? D66 welcomes the fact that the annual reports are now compulsory, because it is irresponsible to withhold the expenditure of a school for the environment and society. However, we are wondering whether the requirements of annual reports, reserves and provisions are not too heavy. Isn't it getting too complicated for an elementary school and could it be simpler? Can we help primary schools, for example, by drawing up standard models? Mr. Chairman. Through clear and understandable accountability, we also help cross-cutting supervision by teachers, parents and students. Is it true that with this bill we no longer require the participation council to be sufficiently facilitated, I ask the Minister? Mr. Chairman. Last Monday, with the judge's ruling, we saw that it is very difficult to exercise system responsibility as minister and to dismiss those dysfunctions. As far as D66 is concerned, the law may be stricter. After all, freedom of education is not a free pass for bad or unsafe education for us. School administrators have a heavy responsibility in this and must always act in accordance with that responsibility and as a role model towards society and their pupils in particular. Fortunately, almost all teachers have the heart in the right place, but the rotten apples do not belong in education. The Minister also wants stricter laws for teachers in the new citizenship education legislation, so that abuse of the freedom of education can be addressed. My questions are as follows. Is testing the behaviour of teachers and school culture a necessity along that path, so that people who abuse the freedom of education can be addressed? Is the inspection able to check on this? This task does not go too far for the education inspection, as sometimes it is also a question of conflicting fundamental rights such as freedom of religion and the right to equal treatment. We have also seen this throughout the debate that preceded the procedures in higher education, where a committee of wise men has finally come up to advise the Minister. How's the minister looking at this? Does the Minister see sufficient guarantees in his proposals on citizenship to be able to intervene better in the future? Mr. Chairman. D66 has already proposed, as in higher education, to establish a sense of social responsibility for directors in behaviour and expressions contrary to the core values of the democratic rule of law. An independent committee, as in higher education, reviews and makes a statement, after which the minister can draw conclusions. In this way, we do not burden the education inspection with this extremely difficult task and heavy responsibility. I would like a response from the Minister on the new law for the citizenship mission. Mr. Chairman. The Minister has not taken advantage of this change in law to make teaching time more flexible, a long-cherished wish of D66. In the meantime... Yeah, not to not do that, but just to do that, of course. You understand, but you didn't do it, I'll tell the minister. In the meantime, the results of the evaluation of the experiment are known flexibilisation of teaching time. The Minister states that it is a common view of the Chamber and the Minister that departure from teaching time should not be a structural situation, referring to Mrs Van den Hul's motion on the four-day school week. Partly because of this he does not want to change the Law on Primary Education. However, that motion states that the four-day school week should not be a solution to the shortage of teachers. This is quite different from giving room to schools by flexibilising the standards for teaching time. In addition, the VVD, the CDA and D66 asked the Minister for each motion to make it legally possible for schools meeting a number of conditions, such as good quality and consent to participation, to deviate from centrally established holidays and a five-day school week, for example. D66 would like to know when the Chamber can expect this change of law. Is the Minister prepared to send the original provision to extend the school time regime to the Chamber in such a way that we now have that evaluation? Mr. Chairman. Finally, this law proposes that suspensions of more than one day be reported directly to the inspection. I think that's a little exaggerated myself. It says here in my text that I am now going to tell an anecdote how I was once suspended myself, for a week, preferably, of which no mention has been made, not even by me to my parents, I add. It's been a long time; they know it by now. But I won't bother you with that. In a smaller circle, perhaps after the end in Nieuwspoort, I would like to tell you about that. But it is a bit exaggerated if we have to report one-day suspensions to the inspection. That's a bureaucratic freak. It doesn't make any sense to me. So let's just not do that, I'll ask the Minister. D66 has also looked critically at the gross list. Here's what we notice. One of the prerequisites is the maintenance of a apprenticeship follow-up system for all ages. This creates a lot of work pressure in practice. It's an indirect incentive to focus on keys. What does the apprenticeship monitoring system specifically provide for additional added value in monitoring? Why has Mr Bishop not been chosen to do so, and I do not have the time to maintain a apprenticeship follow-up system from Group 6 until then, since it is only then that it is justified to compare the pupil with the reference level? Finally, Mr President. It is, of course, good that we are doing our best here with a dust comb operation, among other things to reduce workload in schools, but it is essential that the schools also become familiar with the amended legislation. Finally, my question is how the Minister will inform schools about this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u59	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr. Chairman. It is good news in itself that we are adapting and updating the adequacy requirements, for example, to reduce the administrative pressure on teachers. At the beginning of this speech, I should like to thank Mr Van Meenen for his contribution to flexible teaching times. I think that is a good part, and that is what we are working together with a number of parties. This debate has been on the agenda before. At that time, I had the idea of looking at whether we could also use this actualization to allow the action of the administration of schools where antidemocratic and anti-integrative education is given to have consequences. This whole process of thinking proved difficult to implement, because this amendment to the law would be so large that the whole route through the Council of State and so on would have to be repeated. This treatment doesn't deserve that. It doesn't fit, but I'd like to say two things about this. The Minister has promised two legislative proposals to come to the Chamber to ensure that governments and schools where there are abuses can be addressed, or better deal with: the law on citizenship education and the law to tackle governments more effectively. I would like to ask the Minister what is going on with both routes, and in particular the last law I mentioned. Does the Minister also feel the urgency of getting to work on this as soon as possible? If so, when can we expect those documents in the Chamber? We are already working on the written round of the citizenship mandate, but when can we expect this other important law? For example, did you withdraw all leave at the Ministry in order to respond to the written round as soon as possible and to work on the implementation of that second law? I would like to know this because it simply cannot be the case that there are schools where children are taught not to participate in our society, without being able to do anything about it. I think that last Monday's statement very much underlines this urgency. You have seen an amendment passed by me to include two hours of movement education as a necessity. For so long, we have wanted every child in primary school in the Netherlands to receive sufficient training in movement. We made extra money available in Rutte I with the CDA and tolerating the PVV. Not for two hours a week, but to finance a third hour. In Rutte II, with the Labour Party, we made performance agreements whereby the effort was to give each child at least two hours of gym lessons and to strive for three hours. That's what you expect from it. But unfortunately it turns out that despite all the efforts there is not more but even less movement education, with our little children getting the worst out of the score. I see the minister thinking: doesn't that have financial consequences? I mean specifically for those two hours already planned. I don't think so, because the money's been made available for two hours. A large part of the schools get this number, so it can be easy. If the Minister looks at this differently, I'm happy to hear it. What about the accommodations? Doesn't that cost extra money? That's going to cost extra money. But the question is whether that should come from us. I believe that every municipality has an obligation to build sufficient gym facilities for the number of classes in schools in the municipality. Money is available from the Municipal Fund for the municipality. And yes, municipalities are allowed to make choices, but as far as I'm concerned, not at the expense of our children's health and exercise. Here, too, I say that if the Minister makes a different assessment, I am happy to hear it. This leaves only the choice of principle to lay down two hours of movement education in the law. After all the interventions, additional resources, commitments, effort obligations and targets, and if governments do not take their own responsibility, the VVD is ready to be incorporated into the law. I would like a comprehensive answer from the Minister to the financial questions and considerations in my amendment. Furthermore, I support the law as it stands here. I hope that with the amendments tabled by several colleagues, of which I am also a co-signator, he will get even better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u61	Thank you. I call Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u62	There's one more question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u63	Excuse me, Mrs Westerveld. I didn't see you there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u64	I have a clear question about the amendment tabled by Mr Heerema. We have often had a debate in the Chamber on movement education. There is an initiative law by colleague Van Nispen of the SP. I think he's asking about the same thing. I see Mr Heerema nodding now, but I just haven't had enough time to put those two side by side. Can Mr Heerema explain the differences between this amendment and the initiative proposal, which we will continue to discuss in a while?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u65	Sure. We aim to be able to give all children a gym for two hours from kindergarten to grade 8. Mr Van Nispen's initiative law calls for three hours and the obligation of professional teachers. The big difference is that three hours of professional teachers has a huge financial consequence. We cannot allow these finances to land in education at the moment. My amendment to the adequacy requirements does not, in the end, require additional money. Firstly, accommodation is paid from the Municipal Fund because municipalities have a duty to do so. That's the view I have of my time as a city councilman in Alkmaar. Secondly, because of all the extra investments that have been made in recent times, since Rutte I, schools have received money for two hours of movement education. That's in the lumpsum, only choices are made in it. By putting it as a necessity, you say: we think that this choice should be made, just for the pleasure of moving and the health of our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u66	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u67	Mr. Chairman. It has been almost four years since the First Chamber approved Mr Bishop's initiative law, which Mr Van Meenen and I were allowed to co-subsist. The aim of that law was to improve the legal framework of education supervision. The adaptation, updating of the adequacy requirements, the reduction of the administrative burden and the extension of the legal basis for monitoring the education inspection that is in place today and which contains many good elements that can support the left and right, opposition and coalition, follow from the handling of that initiative law. Mr. Chairman. I would like to raise another motion on our initiative law adopted by the First Chamber with Mr Bruijn of the VVD, Mr Heerema. The first operative part of that motion is: calls on the Government to exercise restraint in adding new requirements. As far as the CDA is concerned, not only does the government exercise this restraint, but also the House of Representatives. The Education Council has also called on several times, he repeated that call in the course of examining our own initiative law to be reluctant to impose robust requirements. These must be demands with an unmistakable importance for the quality of education, for demands that are widely accepted and scientifically supported by society, and for demands that respect freedom of direction. A careful balance must be struck between the social importance of ensuring the highest possible quality of education and the freedom of education. Standards must be as clear and objective as possible and legally anchored. Where clarity and objectivity are not possible or insufficient, it is appropriate to compensate for that defect through procedural safeguards. Mr. Chairman. On two points, we are in favour of amendments to the SGP. I refer to Mr Bishop's explanation of the "insufficient" judgement of the MBO inspection and, of course, the apprenticeship follow-up system and the maled preschool tests in primary and special education. Mr. Chairman. We have asked many questions about the proposed standards of financial management and efficiency at the written stage prior to this plenary debate. As far as we are concerned, these have been expressed quite openly in this law. According to the CDA, there is a risk that schools are not sufficiently clear about what is meant by the term "proper exploitation" and "evidently unforeseen inefficiency." The Minister replied that the addition of the word "evident" to the word "efficiency" would, in his view, make it sufficiently clear what matters were involved. We are not yet convinced of this. After all, they remain very open standards. Different degrees are also possible in case of obvious and unforeseen events. The question is which gradation sanctions are considered proportionate and which are not. As far as we are concerned, that remains a grey area. The CDA continues to disagree with the Minister on this at the moment. That is why we have tabled an amendment together with the SGP and the VVD to determine, in general terms, when there is a clear inefficient use of the funding. Now that the legislative proposal has made this part of the adequacy requirements and with that there is a financial sanction on it, we need to make this objectible to schools so that they know where they stand. We also believe that we can find the Education Council at our side on this point. Mr. Chairman. I have one more comment. It concerns the citizenship mission. There is a lot of social debate about this. In our group, too, we could have thought that, despite the reluctance, there had been an opportunity to pay attention to this, but we welcome the legislative proposal that is now in our Chamber to clarify the citizenship mandate. As far as we are concerned, that is the right time to talk about it. I very much look forward to that debate. I have a short question. As far as we are concerned, page 11 of the explanatory memorandum contains an incorrect percentage on the publication rate of annual reports in secondary education. It says 54%, but in other documents we always read that 98% of school authorities publish an annual report. Can the Minister confirm this and, if necessary, amend or restore the explanatory memorandum to that effect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u68	Thank you. Mrs Westerveld of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u69	Mr. Chairman. The segregation in education is a growing problem. In the last State of Education, the education inspector warns that if nothing is done about these hair tears, they are constantly deepening. Children whose parents have studied or whose parents have more to spend are given more opportunities than children from families in which more effort is needed to make ends meet. The fact that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance is deeply concerned about this problem cannot surprise the Minister and his colleagues, as we discussed it extensively in the course of discussing the Law more room for new schools, but also in other debates. The inequality of opportunity between children, which follows from segregation, is one of the biggest problems in education. We are not the only party in this; this is often mentioned here. However, we do not see the problem of segregation mentioned at any time in the Act updating requirements. If the problem is so growing, should the inspection not be allowed to do something about it rather than just notice it? As far as we are concerned, it is time for the inspection to be able to address this problem with the school board. That is why I tabled an amendment together with Mr Kwint to include the prevention of segregation as a necessity in the law. The amendment obliges the school to counter all aspects of segregation and to account for policy in the school plan. In this way, the problem of segregation in education is really taken seriously, because instead of just finding it, something can actually be done about it. Mr. Chairman. On another point, too, we have our concerns, and these are the increasing financial reserves in education. I have not been able to follow the whole debate, but I think that more colleagues have said something about it. The joint reserves of school boards in fundative education now amount to more than EUR 2 billion. This law lays down requirements for irresponsible financial policies and allows action to be taken. But is having large reserves at a time when the social call for structuralally more money for education does not also sound irresponsible financial policy, I would like to ask the Minister. In the letter of Parliament, which we received on 17 December and in which the Minister responds to the story behind the financial figures, the Minister also states himself that money for education should be spent on education. The Minister refers to spring, in which the inspection would propose a method for establishing an alert value per administration. But is such an alert sufficient? Should inspection not only be used to intervene in cases of clearly inefficient spending, but also in cases of inefficient potting? The core of the supervision of financial continuity in the legislative proposal is to oblige the school to manage the school's resources in such a way as to ensure the school's continued existence. But isn't good education, and not just the survival of that school, still the main goal of a school? And can good education not only be given if the money is made available for it? I know that there is still a separate debate on the reserves of governance and partnerships, but responsible financial policy seems to us to be part of this debate on adequacy requirements. That is why I am asking the Minister this question now. Mr. Chairman. We are also curious to see how the Minister intends to encourage the proportional representation of women in leadership positions. The figures given by the Minister in the answer to questions show that 81% of primary school staff are women, but they account for 52.6% of the management. In secondary education, 49.8% of employees are women, compared with 33% in management. This legislative proposal removes the obligation to draw up a document with targets for this representation. What's in return? A duty of care with an effort to provide a quantitative insight into the level of proportional representation of women in the school leadership in the school plan. This does not really invite action as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Where targets still have an end in themselves, it is actually figures that are to be pursued. This is only a reflection of the way things are going. The Minister states that in an "inexplicably distorted image" the inspection can be discussed, but is that enough? Can the Minister explain how he can guarantee that this issue is still being taken seriously? Do we still aim to pursue equal positions as much as possible? I would point out that in debates here we often mention the importance of more men for the classroom. Then it would also be nice if we still felt that it was good to have more women on the board. Mr. Chairman. Finally, we wonder whether access to education for children with disabilities should not also be a prerequisite. I just don't know why we don't see that anywhere. That's why I'm asking. Last December, in its annual report on compliance in the Netherlands with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the College of Human Rights suggested that more attention should be paid to the physical accessibility of schools. In 2017, 35.7% of the schools visited were insufficiently accessible and 27.9% of the schools did not have a disabled toilet. The College also concluded that schools do not always carry out sufficient research into the possibility of making adjustments. The UN Disability Convention states that the government must provide an inclusive education system at all levels. Does the Minister consider that this right is now sufficiently guaranteed? Why is the accessibility of education not yet a necessity? Shouldn't this be added? Mr. Chairman. Good education can only be achieved if there is a clear vision of the requirements that a school must meet. With our input, we hope to have stimulated the Minister's vision. We are curious about the Minister's response to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u70	Thank you. Finally, Mr Beertema of the PVV has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Virtue demands must go with their time. Some have been overtaken by the Internet, so it is no longer necessary, for example, to make the formal requirement to issue a paper copy of the school guide to all parents. Other requirements have been overtaken by embedding in other laws, e.g. the requirement for parents to be able to provide support to the school, which is now laid down in the Law on participation in schools. This bill also initially wanted a school week to be no less than five days in principle. Basically. This would remove the obligation to set up five school days. It's already been mentioned. At this time of a whining shortage of teachers, a "in principle" requirement invites perverse incentives. Let's not be secretive about that. It invites to compress the mandatory lesson time in four and a half days or even in four days. We would see, much more than we are now, that children are sent home. That's way out of line. Even if this attempt at flexibility in the number of days of teaching is motivated by good intentions, this is not the way to mitigate the consequences of the shortage of teachers. In fact, I think it's somewhat defeatist. We don't solve it by saddled the parents with major logistical problems. Fortunately, this was taken out on the advice of the Council of State. However, I find it worrying that the Minister and his advisers felt it necessary to give schools the freedom to deal with this time of education in a flexible manner. That doesn't promise much good for the future. We will therefore continue to follow this very closely. We welcome, of course, the reduction of administrative obligations for schools and the continuation of inspection activities. The Committee welcomes the fact that in future the inspection will have more opportunities to intervene by imposing sanctions if there is clearly inefficient use. Mr Bishop has said a number of sensible things about this. We're gonna think about that a lot. Thank you for that reflection, Mr Bishop. The obligation to publish the annual reports is also a good development. We find it remarkable that this was not already an obligation. We were rather shocked by the percentages in the p.o. and vo: less than 50% of schools published these figures in accordance with their social obligation. The failure to comply with the Law on participation in schools can also lead to sanctions, although we wonder whether suspending 15% of a twelfth part of the funding is heavy enough. Anyway, at least it's an incentive to handle the WMS carefully. Mr. Chairman. We do have a number of criticisms and concerns. For example, the coalition agreement will consider whether children's learning rights can be legally defined. This idea, of course from the case of the self-proclaimed teaching party D66, should not be added to the adequacy requirements, we think. After all, we have a compulsory education. It just needs to be maintained. As far as we are concerned, a right of learning is an unwelcome addition, which, although it gives us a good feeling, creates confusion rather than clarity. As far as I'm concerned, it's still compulsory education. On the other hand, we have imposed a duty of care on the government. As far as we are concerned, that balance is perfectly right. First of all, make sure that we maintain what's already there before we start a semantic operation to make education more fun than we can live up to. I see I've stimulated Mr. Van Meenen to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u72	Yeah, you did it. Good to see you again, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u73	Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u74	But that doesn't mean I agree. Let's talk about the law of learning. For the sake of clarity, that right of learning does not replace compulsory schooling. It's a right to education. There is no such thing in the Netherlands. All we know is compulsory schooling. In the meantime, we have thousands of children who cannot exercise that right because they are refused everywhere for some reason. Is the situation that Mr Beertema has in mind, then, that we leave it mainly that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u75	No, of course that's not the situation I want to keep. But I think it is semantic casuism to introduce the word "right" to the word "obligatory." I can't do that much with it. We have compulsory schooling. You were talking about the homeowners. I have said so many times here that every homemaker, that one homemaker is already too much in the system we should have. That's why we've given the government a duty of care. I agree with you that it is not being complied with. I agree with you that it is not being complied with, but let us work on it and not set up a whole semantic operation to talk about "learning law."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u76	I do not think so; let us be clear about that. It is not a word; it is a right. It will be a statutory right that will be held by parents and children, which will give them the right to education. The only duty now lies with the parents: they must send their child to school. But if that child is nowhere to go because schools do not fulfil their duty of care, then the parent and the child are ultimately empty-handed. So in order to strengthen the position of the parent and especially of the child, we believe that they should be given an enforceable right to be admitted to schools. I do not understand what the PVV's objection to that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u77	Well, then we'd change that. That's gonna be a pretty tricky operation, too, and then there's a right of learning. Does that solve the problem? No way. Those kids will still be at home. It doesn't solve anything. As far as I am concerned, we, as the House of Representatives, have to take much more care of the care and the partnerships that are not doing well. These partnerships have been set up on the basis of promises made by a government that there was a duty of care. And it's not being honored. That's our problem, and not whether we're talking about learning or compulsory education. Let us confine ourselves to what we have been hired for, namely the control of the government and the partnerships. Let us call them to order instead of setting up a whole route to replace 'duty' with 'law'. It's such a feel-good operation of: we all have a right instead of a duty. Duty is not allowed anymore from D66 and everything must be possible, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u78	Calm down. Calm down.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u79	Yeah, but stop doing that for once, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u80	Mr. Beertema, as we know him, is getting back on track! Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u81	It is such a pity, Mr President, because I fully agree with that story about duty of care. Of course we have to force it. But ask the thousands of parents who are in court to be admitted and who are not admitted, because governments have the right to refuse children, while those parents have no right on their side. That is the position of thousands of children in the Netherlands. Of course, we must maintain the duty of care, but this duty of care is something other than an admission obligation. The duty of care is simply to say: nice to have you come to me, I'll see if I can find you a school somewhere else, because this child is far too complicated for me. That is the duty of care, briefly, and it is already not being respected. But the duty of care does not give the child access to a school. We're going to have that discussion with each other, but I'm really sorry. I simply do not understand that Mr Beertema is actually saying here to all those children sitting at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u82	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u83	Well, you're actually saying do it with the duties I've given you and the boards. And that while we know, because those duties are now there that that does not work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u84	Every kid sitting at home is one too many. Every child sitting at home is a disgrace to Dutch education. But at the same time, Mr Van Meenen, it is a disgrace to us as House of Representatives to allow that to happen. I don't have time, I don't feel like it, and I don't have any energy to get caught up in a semantic discussion about rights and duties. My point is, as I said earlier, let us, as the House of Representatives, make sure that these partnerships finally do what they are set up for, namely to take care of every child who is registered, one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u85	Finally, Mr. Chairman, if I may. I do feel like and have time and energy to put into the rights of those kids, and... Well, I'd like to say that. In the system as it is now, even if the duty of care is enforced, the duty of care is not a right of admission. It has nothing to do with each other. Children simply do not get their turn in this education and they miss the right to admission. We just have to give it to them. We are not just the government's controller, we are also legislators if we want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u86	But that was the agreement that was made at the time: every child would come to a place that suits the child. That has not happened, and that is a great shame. We need to work on that. Then we can see if we can turn that into a semantic discussion about rights and obligations. Mr. Chairman. An adjustment is also proposed to aim for a proportionate representation of men and women in the school leadership. This is accompanied by an obligation to provide figures on this issue. Why again focus on the school leadership, on the top, on management and not on the relationship between men and women in front of the classroom? Mrs Westerveld just said that. We are very much in favour of an equal relationship between men and women in the classroom, because it serves a pedagogical purpose and not an ideological purpose. Moreover, I myself have a long experience in education. I'm not gonna tell you how long that was. That's what Mr Van Meenen says. It was 34 years and only 33. And you can tell the difference. You'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u87	I have never, literally never, experienced any discrimination based on gender, ethnicity or whatever. In fact, fifteen years ago, it was already a lot harder for middle-aged white men to qualify for leadership positions than for women in your jargon "evil white men." Coordinators, training managers, even members and presidents of boards: I have experienced so many women in education! I have never seen any threshold set for that. Women were not put in the way, even more so, there was already de facto positive discrimination. My question to the Minister is, then, whether there really is discrimination in education on the basis of gender or on the basis of any distinction? Or are we here in the Lower House again doing an exercise of "look at me" on the basis of a non-existent problem? My next question is, why do you keep obsessing about these top functions? Why don't you do your best to get men in class, especially in primary school? I'd like a response to that. During the examination of the legislative proposal, I discussed in detail the proliferation of all these new educational concepts, such as Ied-schools, Avatar schools, so-called democratic schools, sociocratic schools and iPad schools. Such schools are founded, whether they belong to the funded education or not. That does not matter in this context either, because it is all schools that take responsibility for letting children learn and develop intellectually in the most fruitful years of their lives. These schools work on the basis of educational concepts that are not evidence-based. The concepts are not based on science, scientific insights, but only on wishful thinking and even more so on magical thinking: yoga, mindfulness, self-discovery learning and personalized learning. I've just mentioned that. Yet they have managed to obtain a place in the educational polder. The validity requirements cannot seem to prevent this from being denounced. I say this because, last September, it became clear that the bill we are discussing here today has more room for new schools than the Law. My question is whether, as far as the Minister is concerned, the adequacy requirements should or could play a role in preventing the creation of all kinds of didactic and pedagogically irresponsible educational systems which do not have any scientific basis. I would like to respond to that, because a lot of parents approach me on that. Also from articles in newspapers and so I know of really totally failed careers of children in primary school age, because these schools operate from these kinds of concepts that simply don't work. Those kids won't be able to make up for those years. I'm always so sorry about that. I'm so sorry about that. But it'll happen on our watch, I'll just say. It's hard for me to digest. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna finish up. We are strongly inclined to vote in favour of this bill, but not before our concerns about preventing the creation of schools of this kind that are riding on yet another ill-thought-out educational hype. I would add that a positive reception of the Quint amendment, which I myself was allowed to sign, can at least help. But perhaps the Minister has other ideas as to how that can be poured into the barrel. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u88	Thank you to Mr Beertema. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. After the suspension, we'll listen to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u89	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u90	Who starts coughing spontaneously. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its contribution to a legislative proposal which was indeed in the Chamber for some time. We were supposed to deal with it in September, but a development delayed it then. Fortunately, the new year offers new opportunities. We're standing there today. I think it would be okay if I just briefly indicated what this bill is about. At the moment when there is somewhere the word'successful requirements', you can talk about 350 or perhaps more topics. You are in a position to do that, and I am quite happy to say that when we have the time to discuss it, we will have huge discussions. The whole education world is coming back to that, but this bill is pretty framed. In your contribution, with all due respect, you've sometimes gone a little over those frameworks. Mr Bisschop, Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen have tabled a motion in both the Second and First Chambers. This was done in the First Chamber by Mr Bruijn, now Chairman of the First Chamber, and in the Second Chamber Mrs Straus and Mr Dijkgraaf filed a motion. We are often adding some things to those requirements with all kinds of laws, but we never really look very closely at whether everything is up-to-date. Is it still up to date? Does it still fit the circumstances? Are there things we might want to delete? That's what the government's been instructed to do. It wants to apply an update periodically. This is, in a manner of speaking, the first leg after the initiative legislative proposal came into force in 2017. We are already preparing for a second laying. It has to do with quality in particular, I say in response to a question from Mr Kwint. Quality is a big topic. We're worried about it. Does everything about quality still fit in with the quality requirements? Can we get rid of things? Do you think there's any things you need to do with it? It is the intention to complete that round in this period until the summer. I will, of course, be pleased to present you with proposals. A second part of the law is the comb procedure, once used by my predecessor. There are still things in the comb that we can do with. You found a few in this bill. The third part concerns situations that sometimes arise in the country during supervision. Sometimes there is a judge's ruling in which we find that our legislation does not really provide sufficient opportunities to act or to leave or do what is deemed necessary. These are the three parts of this law. And when I look at what you have added, that is a lot of things that are not within the scope of this law now. If we are talking about what should or should not be part of the adequacy requirements, of course you have a title. Then you can bring in everything. I have just spoken with the President for a very short time. I hope you will excuse me for focusing on the law and the questions that have been asked about it and the proposals that have been put to me in concrete terms. For a whole debate on citizenship, you can wake me up day and night, especially after this week. We're going to have that discussion at a later date. Moreover, I welcome the initiative from the Chamber to include an additional round of questions in the legislative proposal, also in the light of the topicality of last Monday. I hope you do that soon. We will also respond quickly, because there is some urge on me and I think you too to discuss this subject further. You can then, if the agenda allows, quickly arrange it. The discussion about what I call the Evil Parents is a big topic. When I heard of their existence this week, I immediately said that I wanted to talk to them. That is what I am saying to Mr Kwint, because of course it is a good thing that parents unite and make a number of points very clearly. I have now also received their manifesto and I will talk to them about it, possibly even in person. But that's not something that's touching the bill right now. By the way, on 5 February we will talk about education and care and in February we will also give you the homepage letter. So we'll have all kinds of moments to talk about this later. I may also be able to inform you about my conversations with these parents, which I would prefer to call Concerned Parents. I'm also very interested in what else they have to say about what they're all going through. Inspection surveillance on all kinds of topics. It is now a matter of seconds about what we give them, including through this law, and what we change in supervision. I'd like to limit myself to that, even though I understand that a whole world can be drawn. The same applies to the letter from the G4 which I received yesterday. I'm working very intensively on the G4. We're working like hell to make those plans right now. They are now in the final phase. I will inform you soon, perhaps even next week. Then you'd better know. I do that because it is also very important that you keep in touch. But that doesn't touch this bill. It is true that we have agreed with the cities making plans that adaptive monitoring is being applied. That is a very clear thing and also a signal to them that we understand their situation. But there's no need to bring all that up here right now. It will also come back in a different way very soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u91	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I would like to reply to the Minister on this point for a moment. He says, "That's really something else." Today we are talking about standards. Dignity requirements are about the quality that we demand and demand of our education. That quality is under pressure and that is a very clear cry from the G4. So there is a connection. But the Minister is right to say that we will soon be discussing this extensively. Fortunately, we have managed to bring together a number of debates on teachers and hopefully they will soon be held in plenary. So we are definitely going to talk about it in detail. However, I would like to say that there is no link between the validity requirements and the letter of fire.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u92	Just so we're clear, I've just indicated that you can bring the whole world in if the word "successful" comes to mind. It is true that there is also a link between quality requirements and what is happening in schools, but there is no link to the proposals that are now being put forward here on sound standards. That is what I want to talk about, and that is why I want to say that, in your direction too. I am indeed looking forward to a broader debate on this subject, because that is also important. There is also enough information with you now. The same applies to the subject of children with disabilities and accessibility. That too, I think, can be taken further in February. For example, a number of issues have been mentioned which do not touch on the substantive proposals that are now before us. Of course, you always have the right to make proposals through amendments. Some have done so, and I shall, of course, deal with it later. There is one of Mrs Westerveld's amendments on segregation, which had already been announced in another debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u93	I understand what the Minister is saying, but my question was now: why are not accessibility and inclusive education necessary? Perhaps the Minister could answer that in his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u94	I can do that, because that's actually very simple. Laws make choices and here, too, a choice has been made between the merits that could be added to the law. By the way, it has indeed become quite a list. In the past, therefore, there has never been an agreement on a wish from the Chamber. Maybe there was, but it didn't make it to the majority. There are, of course, more subjects to mention where everything is said: there are also amendments that may not make it. A majority then says 'we're not going to do that' and the cabinet has no reason to make proposals for that. I think that's it, also digging into my own memory and my own memories on this subject. I have also participated in debates for many years in a position like yours. Mr. Chairman. Since the questions are so wide-ranging that it has to do with the legislative proposal, I am going to do the answer on the basis of what the spokesmen have come up with. A number of subjects are duplicated, as some of the members have covered the same subjects. I will start with Mr Kwint, who asked about the timing. I think I just answered that question. In particular, he called for attention to be paid to school plans. That was in line with his amendment to part No. 10, with Mr Beertema joining us and now with the amended amendment to item No. 14 has become. This amendment seeks to make clear in a school plan what the school's vision is, as laid down in the law, also to ask for scientific support. This is a bit of the discussion we have had at More room for new schools. Mr Kwint is right that I put my finger on the fact that you only ask for this from new schools. In addition, I have put my finger on the word "scientific." With the question of what is scientific and how to judge whether something is scientific or not, we are getting to you a little bit about how I pronounce it in an area where, if you are not careful, you can get pretty stuck in no time. The interruption of Mr Bishop was also justified, I think. There are sometimes very well-thought-out visions where scientists may not have been directly involved, but they are people who have earned their spurs in education and who know what they are doing. Such visions can also be quite firm and can eventually show that they are worth putting into practice. I would therefore advise against your amendment in this form. If you had asked to justify what vision a school has, I do not think that we should indicate that it should be as many words as possible, or whatever, I would have found that a very logical question. We may also ask that this be mentioned in a school guide. But you did not ask that in your amendment. So I advise against the amendment in this form. Perhaps you should consider another form, which might be more appropriate. I think it's obvious that you're asking for an explanation. That's not something we're officially asking for. At least we have not implemented this in this way in the change of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u95	This is about the amendment to item No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u96	In part No. 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment No 10, Amendment
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u97	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u98	Of course, I always want to think. But there is something underneath, as I said in response to Mr Bishop and other people who asked those questions. We have had the State of Education over the last few years, in which very explicitly warned of an increase in unproven educational concepts. That was a broad call for more, or at all, to be able to do something about it. Now we can get rid of the word "scientific," but then we'll come back to the corner of the unproven educational concepts. My question would therefore be: if the Minister thinks that'scientific' is too strong, while I think'substantiated what you are going to do' is too weak, what does he do with the concern expressed so explicitly by the education inspection, among other things, in the State of Education? That is the concern that we see that, in my words, more and more experiments can be carried out with children in education through unproven concepts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u99	We have also talked about this in the treatment of the Law More room for new schools. You know that at the moment when someone wants to start a school, we have now set the bar quite high on everything that has to be met. It will also be necessary to ensure the support of parents who support it. In that way, I think we have given quite a lot of assurance that not everyone just walks into the meadow, so to speak, and starts a school. We also think it is important for school guides to be transparent about the vision they have. In short, we want that clarity to exist. Then let the debate take place. But now about the bandwidth of a provision in the law that asks schools to provide information and communicate about what they are doing, actually indirectly asking for some kind of qualitative assessment of the inspection on that concept, is not the way I want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u100	Now it's getting really complicated. We first have a discussion about the law More room for new schools, in which the Minister says to me: come back to the debate on the adequacy requirements. Then I stand by that debate about the adequacy requirements and he says: yes, but we have also done things in the debate at the law More space new schools... The education inspector does not have the alarm clock on schools that are yet to be set up; the education inspector has the alarm clock on schools that are already in place. That is why it seems sensible, bearing in mind the criticism made by the education inspector, to add this, not only for new schools, but also for existing schools. And then transparency is not enough. Schools must now also draw up a school plan. Schools are already writing a school guide. So once again, what is the Minister going to do with the warning from the education inspector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u101	The comparison with the law More room for new schools has to do with the fact that they are also new schools. After all, at the time, you tabled an amendment to that effect for a reason. I now point out that we have raised the demands for new schools quite considerably, so that not everyone can just be admitted. Indeed, I indicated at the time that if we want to do something with this, we need to do it more broadly, so for all schools. Madam President. The problem we are facing now is that when the law says that it must be scientifically justified and we send the inspection into the meadow with the order to check whether it is scientifically justified, the inspection will be stalled. Because that demand is going to unravel a whole dispute about what is or is not scientifically justified and when you can say that it is scientifically justified. Plus that you run the risk that initiatives that may not have directly involved professors, but for which people from practice have worked well and sometimes developed practical visions that they want to implement, will not be able to get off the ground. That is why I find your amendment in this form insufficient. Last but not least, what am I gonna do? You know that we have agreed with the VO Council, among other things, that we want to discuss how to expect schools to be clear and to support what they are doing, partly on the basis of what the inspection has found, which not everyone recognized immediately. Maybe that way we can separate the chaff from the chaff a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u102	Mr. Kwint, your amendment to part No. 10 is thus discouraged.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u103	In the meantime, this was the amendment to item No. 14. But I already got that impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u104	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, At least with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u105	The amendment in part No. 10 has been amended, because Mr Beertema is now underneath, and now has part No. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u106	Exactly. So it is Amendment No 14 that is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u107	No, I think the amendment to item No. 14 now become an amendment by Mr Rog, Mr Heerma and myself. An amended amendment. This amendment will then have to be part No. 15 years old. We don't have that copy yet. So the safest thing to do right now is to talk about piece no. 10 to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u108	Yeah, let's talk about piece no. 10. That is Mr Kwint's amendment on a scientifically sound basis for learning methods.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u109	Bingo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u110	Let's drop the numbers. But we are talking about that amendment. And that amendment is not recommended by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u111	I got that definite impression too, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u112	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u113	Well, that promises something, because I have to. Maybe the minister will think something else. In my view, Mr Kwint is right to say that we are addressing a problem raised by the inspection. The inspection has simply found that there are schools with unproven concepts that are harmful to students; I would like to sum up briefly. In other words, the Minister's objection is that the inspection is being sent out with the order to give an opinion on concepts, but the inspection has already done so. They have already given that judgment to us, and they are very concerned about that. I myself felt a few objections in the interrupting debate to say: scientifically proven. At the same time, I can tell the Minister that he wants something to happen. Would the Minister not be prepared to discuss with the inspection how the instruments of inspection should be in order to actually do something about this? But let us not continue to accept that there are children in schools who are using the most astounding concepts that children really lack. So my question is very specific: is the Minister prepared, if necessary encouraged by a motion, to discuss with the inspection how these instruments should be, if it is not the result of that amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u114	Two things. I do not have it quite in detail now, but I think we should at least look very closely at the State of Education. In any case, the inspection indicates that there have been quite a few schools with certain concepts, and that a growing group differs from what we encounter in mainstream education. That's the signal they gave. They have indeed indicated that they have some concerns about that. Then the question remains what you could do if you wanted to do something about it. In the end, it is also important that we simply check whether we comply with the laws and regulations we have. We sometimes find, especially in these schools, that this does not happen in everything. Then we can simply act on the basis of the current laws and regulations. But if it can help this issue further, I am certainly prepared to discuss with the inspection to see if the instruments we have now are really sufficient. Then I'll inform the Chamber. I certainly want to make that commitment. But now that we adopt an amendment to this law that requires this, it does not seem to me to be the way forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u115	It's good to read again what's in the inspection report. I have a slightly different feeling about that from the Minister. You say there are still a few schools. But in my opinion this was really the main point of the State of Education of suit bit him one or two years ago I don't remember exactly. It really was a hell of a conclusion. The Minister must also read it, but that was a feeling. Then there really must be a strong discussion, because both the Minister and I have repeated several times that the freedom of education is not a free pass for bad education. We should give hands and feet to that, too. We shouldn't say it's unlimited, you go ahead, and we stand by and look at it. It can't be. That is why I appreciate the SP's efforts with the amendment. I would rather choose a different path, but then there really must be an outcome that leads to something concrete, to measures, and not 'well, we're still looking'. Point, question mark.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u116	We have, of course, discussed every State of Education that has come out extensively in the Chamber. So this issue has already been discussed. I have not heard an order from the Chamber, nor have I seen it myself, in order to do something in the legal instruments. But if there is an amendment like this that wants to do something about it and if part of the Chamber has ears for it, but also understands that it may not be entirely workable, then I understand that we need to look again at whether it is really necessary to have additional instruments for this. I'll have that conversation. I'll inform the Chamber about that. Mr Kwint, as well as others, such as Mr Van Meenen and Mr Rog O'Brien, have perhaps asked almost everyone questions about the parts of the law that deal with the situation in which continuity is at risk. They think that there should be some sort of hook in the law to do something about it. I would like to stress that this does not affect the debate on reserves. On the reserves, we made very good agreements with each other. They are now in some sort of rounding, because this has to be completed further in the spring. That's what we're gonna work on with alert values. We do not want money to be raised, but that money that is for education is also for education. You know that the Councils have moved, especially towards those educational authorities which had very high reserves. In short, that trajectory runs. When that is done, I will of course inform you about it. This is about the fact that from time to time the inspection also sees schools where continuity is at risk in the negative sense and where there are serious concerns as to whether or not that school is going to make it. We've had that in Zeeland-Flanders. Mr Van Meenen asked for examples. I have had a situation in Zeist where this has been happening and where a different cooperation has, fortunately, been established at the last minute. There have also been other schools that were really on the verge of the way in which the financial system had been run. Then you're actually standing there and you can't do very much. That is why it is important that, in the context of continuity, there should also be a hook in the law in order to make sure that things work out in the end, because that is in the interests of the students. You don't want the students to suffer. That is why this is included in this law. Mr Kwint has asked questions about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u117	I understand there's a school somewhere that went down the edge or maybe half of it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u118	Mr Van Meenen really shouldn't make that small. They've been big topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u119	I'm not making it small at all. I understand that the local area is a very large subject. But the result should not be that we are now going to cut our hands in the whole of the Netherlands and that we are going to make additional demands on the continuity paragraph. I certainly worry so much about that, because in many schools the brake goes on and the money certainly doesn't go to class anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u120	I have just indicated that this does not touch, say, the other side of continuity, that it is so benevolent and that, as we often call it, it is being hoarded up in a manner of speaking. We have thus entered a separate trajectory that is now in the process of completion with regard to the signalling values and the performance. What's in this law is specifically affecting schools that fall over. There's a situation you're worried about. You see that something happens, but you can't actually do anything if those who are responsible for administration don't move. We want a legal basis for that now. That's how you should see this law and this part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u121	For the sake of clarity, I believe that all schools are subject to standards. So I don't quite understand. Is it true that action can only be taken if these requirements are not met in a school, but that there are no additional requirements at all for other schools that are not in the danger zone? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u122	No, this is about the fact that if the school's continuity is at risk in a negative sense, the law does not actually offer any opportunities at the moment to engage in a more solid dialogue with the school and to ensure that good choices are made. Then you are dependent on whether drivers who are responsible want to move. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have had a few situations where it really went over the edge. You then talked about many hundreds of students who would end up in a dangerous situation. I mentioned an example in Zeeland. We have also had a situation in Zeist; there are more to mention. We now want to have opportunities to act against it, to ensure that we can actually act, to prevent it from going wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u123	The Minister wants to do so by making additional demands on the continuity paragraph, I shall say, which is going to apply to all school boards. That's something other than an instrument that you can use in case something goes wrong. I have also mentioned in my contribution the limited possibilities for exercising system responsibility. Then you could say: in extreme cases, the Minister can intervene. That is quite different from what you are saying: I am now going to make a much higher demand on all schools so that no more will be at risk. That is the approach taken by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u124	Sure. We have to do this generically. We ask schools to take their own responsibility for continuity. But it is not the intention, as you explained, and that is also a separate route with which we go with the schools, that this would be an entrapment to start saving enormously again. No, this is really very specific to situations that we want to avoid and in which you can get into. Think about what we're going through in shrinking areas. It can sometimes happen very quickly, especially if a lot of pupils leave and people have not noticed this in sufficient time. Unfortunately, we've seen these situations too. The continuity basis must be firm. Then Mr Kwint asked questions about the tightening up of fines. You know there are two routes in that. The inspection has an independent space to impose it. In addition, I have my own powers. We have discussed it with each other before that it is important that sanctions can take place if we consider that necessary. In this context, you must also assess the provisions currently contained in the law. Of course we hope that it should be applied as little as possible, but from time to time it is good that this is in the toolbox and can also be used. Your comments on segregation, to which Mrs Westerveld in particular has also referred and has tabled an amendment on item No. 12, are a follow-up to the very extensive discussion we had at More room for new schools. I also indicated that I think it is really important that schools, and not just new ones, actively contribute to countering segregation and working together with each other and with the municipality. We have a legal toolbox for that with the LEAs, the Local Educational Agendas. You know, I think, all of them still do. I can very well place this amendment in that discussion. I would like to give the judgment Chamber, also in connection with the other legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u125	The amendment in part No. So 12 gets judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u126	Yes. Mrs van den Hul has raised a number of issues that I understand, but there are other times when we will discuss them further. On one point, I would like to make a comment, because I found it somewhat derogatory in the direction of education. You should not regard this as entrapment, Mrs van den Hul, but you mentioned booth schools. If we ask everyone in this society to respect each other, then we also need to respect the forms of education that you might not have thought of or set up, if you were to set up something. For all schools, there is a certain amount of room for how they organise their schools. That even goes a long way, because you are also looking at our Constitution. Even the teaching materials are also a subject that you raised. I think we should respect each other for that, even if our choice may be a little different. Each school, regardless of which one it is, whether it is one of those broad palettes of what we call special education or public education, that if one does not fill in the spaces that one receives in a responsible manner, so not the responsibility associated with it in a socially responsible manner, then action must be taken against it. You know that, regardless of who it is, it will happen because of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u127	Just for a moment to correct something, because apparently the image that I would have spoken denigratingly about certain schools has emerged. That wasn't my intention at all. When I spoke about booth schools, I spoke about schools that knowingly separate themselves from the objective we have agreed on, namely to prepare students for our multiform society. So they're retreating into a booth themselves. During the debate on more room for new schools, we exchanged widely that there are also schools that are consciously taking measures to celebrate certain holidays or not, and are therefore truly exclusive. I was talking about these schools, and not about them in broad terms, which use their constitutional right to give substance to education in the way that they think is right. I'd like to straighten that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u128	I welcome this correction, because Mrs van den Hul also used words about clothing regulations and such, but schools simply have room to make agreements with parents and students about what they want in their schools. She is right, however, that if schools, even knowingly, do not want to comply with the laws and regulations that we have agreed with each other and which apply to everyone, then we will get the stress situation that they may be asked to comply with. Following on from what I just said to Mr Kwint about the possibilities we have, this could even lead to financial sanctions. You know that we also direct education through funding. In the end, one hopes that if one uses the government's funding, one will also set up his education in accordance with the corresponding laws and regulations. You know that this is sometimes the subject of a debate, sometimes in full swing. I have experienced this myself in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u129	Here too, we are going to have an extensive discussion, because there is also a debate on the updating of that famous constitutional article that we are actually talking about here and margin. However, I would like to say a few words about the'skirt schools', as Mr Kwint has just mentioned. We are dealing here with a grey area, in which we are talking about what we can expect from schools, which is a free choice and which is contrary to the requirements that we agree with each other here. This has already been mentioned in connection with the teaching method in which very discriminatory statements were made about lhbti'ers. I would also like to mention that we must ensure that we are selectively indignant about one thing and not about another. I myself think that we are going to discuss this in detail in the debate on Article 23, but it is also certainly permissible for us to have this light this evening in relation to the requirements of correctness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u130	I didn't hear a new question. I think it was an extra addition to the correction that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u131	I am chewing on the Prime Minister's ruling on the Westerveld amendment to item No. 12 on segregation. In my view, that's impossible because you put a job at a school down to a circumstance that a school can often do nothing about. That's how I interpreted it, so I expected a "dissuade." I do not want to burden this debate with a very comprehensive answer to how such a school should deal with this amendment, what its effect is and what the effect can be of the composition of such a community where that school stands without having any influence on it. But can the Minister, for example, tell us tomorrow by a note how such an amendment can be implemented and worked out and how it is workable for such a school? 'Cause I just don't see that happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u132	I am just going to do that orally, because now we have the debate, now we are talking about this amendment. First of all, I would like to ask you to look back at the report of the debate on more room for new schools. In this you can see that there is already a task for schools to contribute to this. There has been a motion from Mr Jasper van Dijk's Chamber. He has put his finger on this in the sense that it is also necessary to monitor whether municipalities do so adequately. With some shame we had to admit that there had been a lot of dust on that motion. We are now trying to find out more about this, and that will be heading towards the Chamber quite quickly. So there is already an assignment for schools and municipalities to develop policies with each other. The only thing this amendment does is to say: it is an obligation to do so. That is a slightly harder obligation than just writing down that we want it to happen, because it is now being poured into the form of a need for correctness. I think that is justified in relation to the debate we have had on the Law on more room for new schools. As you know, we set the bar high on the one hand with regard to the establishment of new schools, but we also sometimes have some concern that there might be schools that, so to speak, would like to have the pleasures but not the burdens that belong to a community with each other and in building up and working together in a city to ensure that every child can get a good place. In that context, I believe that an amendment such as this can be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u133	I had interpreted him differently than the Minister explained. I thought the role for schools would indeed be greater than the minister now appoints. I'm going to look at it again, but I think we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u134	It may be part of a debate that you can't really find each other, but it's good that we exchange things. A question has been asked by Mrs van den Hul, but also by others, about the Law on participation in schools and it can occur if one does not comply with it. That happens sporadic, I tell you. When the Education Supervision Act was made and finally passed through both chambers, it was an omission to include this part. We restore that, so that there is also an opportunity for the inspection to take action in those incidental cases. Without mentioning names, I can tell you that this is also happening in a few schools at the moment. There one does not act in accordance with the Law on participation in schools. You know that there is a distinction in non-cost education, but if you simply take part in exams, there are also a lot of demands for these schools that relate to education. You will understand that it is something else about the funding because we do not get government funding, but they are also fully covered by the tightening-up as presented to you here. Then there is the debate on proportional representation of women. Mrs Van den Hul asked about this, but also Mrs Westerveld. In my view, Mr Bertema made it rather difficult, because he thinks that there is a whole ideological discussion behind it. It is true that this can happen very quickly when you talk about women's representation. That's a lot of loosening. I can tell you that this is a technical change to something that once came into the law, namely how to ask schools in the best way to justify what they are doing at this point. It has always been chosen to do so through a given target document. If you are going to ask in schools how that works and if anyone knows what that is, then I think you will get asking glances. We think it's better to do it the same way we do it in the MBO. That's settled in the WEB. It says: you have a duty of care; you have to justify yourself, also in figures, in your school plans and you have to be completely transparent with regard to the developments that are taking place at that point. Nothing more and nothing less; that is what we are proposing here. Of course, you know my colleague very strongly and passionately from the cabinet in this respect to promote the representation of women in all kinds of places. If you read her letters, you'll see all the proposals. Recently, I think it was something in science that even money was put into it. But of course Mr Beertema also has a point when he says that we should not forget the other side. If you look at education and diversity, then it is true that the number of women in the ranks of executives may not be as large as we would like. I would also like to refer to OMO. I'm sure you've heard of it. This is perhaps the largest school organisation in the Netherlands, in the south of the country. There they have recently even received some sort of award for what they are doing at that point. But it is also important that we ensure that more men go to primary education in particular. You know that all kinds of initiatives are being taken to this end, both from the sector itself and from the Chamber. I believe that Mr Bruins, who is not here today, has written a wonderful political paper on this issue. In short, that also requires attention, of course. Mr. Chairman. A question from Mr Bishop leads us to a somewhat broader discussion than we should now be using this law; of course, we must be judged on the basis of the legislation that has now been brought before us. In one of his examples, he referred, in particular, to the kindergarten test, which is a bridge to the amendment that has been tabled: did we not agree that it would be abolished? That's right; that decision has been made. I also understand the impatience, because it is not yet reflected in the laws and regulations. At that time I agreed with your Chamber that I would take it with me after the evaluation of the Primary Education Act. That meeting was made with the Chamber. You know that the evaluation was completed just before the summer. We have also had a good debate on this with each other. We are now working on this legislation. So if we take it into that law as we agreed, that can also be formalized later. But that's gonna take a while, of course. If you'd like to settle it through this law, we'd have agreed something else, then you can. Only, I have some difficulty with the rest of the amendment before us. Let me explain that to you now. For this part, it was agreed that we would take a different route. You're coming with me now. That may be possible, but that is only part of this amendment. The second part of your amendment relates to the fact that you want to get rid of those reference levels. You are saying that I have also looked at the explanatory statement to the amendment, which would lead to a slight narrowing and that perhaps there would be a bit too much focus only on counting and speaking, including in the key policy. I must tell you that I think it would be a great pity if this part of the law were to disappear. Let me explain to you why. However, these reference levels are relevant, and ultimately also for determining the final level of pupils who ended up at the end of Group 8 in the way we have done so far. But it is also important to have some sort of calibration, so that you know where a child is. If, for example, you do that in group 6, there is indeed the most relevant thing, then you also know what the difference is with what is to be achieved in group 8. So you know how much stakes still have to be made. Are you okay or do you need another tooth? When you don't know that, it only comes to the end of the eighth grade when you make the final test above the table. We hear from the schools that there is no problem with that part either. It is true that it is not a legal requirement, so it does not necessarily need to be there is of course some freedom with regard to that final test, but it nevertheless provides insight into the degree of control of reference levels. It is not only important, therefore, to know what you still have to do with the student concerned by the difference between group 6 and group 8. Even if a student changes schools, for example, it is very nice to know where he or she sits around the reference levels. When we talk to the schools, this is really not a problem. Nor has it emerged in the discussion about the final test and what should or should not change. So I'd feel bad if this were taken out of the law right now. It didn't end up there for no reason at the time. Then there's the independent committee's assessment. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that that committee would standardize. No, that committee doesn't set standards. That's what those who make the keys do. It may also be teachers who submit the tests to the committee. The committee assesses and approves whether they really have the level that we consider important in these kinds of major issues. You can let go of that inspection, to put it that way, but we know that elementary schools sometimes have a lot of fun getting feedback in this way. They also know that the keys they get from providers are simply of sufficient quality. That is why I think it would be a pity if this section were to be removed from the law. In short, this is an amendment with three subjects. The first issue, if it were a separate amendment, I would give Chamber judgment. We agreed otherwise, but this is faster. The other two parts I really want to dissuade, because I think we'll throw something away. We're gonna be really sorry about that and we're gonna have to deal with it. It is important, especially when I think of the enormous concerns we have about the quality of our education, that such provisions remain in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u135	So in this form, do you advise against the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u136	Yeah, well, then I'd advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u137	That is the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u138	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the other part, namely efficiency. I have just talked about continuity, but I would like to talk about efficiency now. Questions have also been asked about this and an amendment has even been tabled. Mr Rog is the first to do so. We really struggled with that. I do understand the reaction of the Chamber: isn't this a bit unfocused? It is indeed an open standard and this leads to some uncertainty. In the end, all things considered, we had to come to the conclusion that it was not easy to put hard things into the law, so to speak. Mr Bishop, creative as we know him, of course mentioned something, namely the earnings, the salaries and the standards of top incomes. But that's already taken care of, as you know. You can actually set some pretty tough standards for that. But in schools, we just see very different situations. One school is in a shrinkage zone. One school has a new building, while the other doesn't. One school may not have purchased something for a very long time and it is now buying it, while the other has, so to speak, already purchased it last year. This is the case with ICT, for example. If you see an issue somewhere that you can reasonably ask yourself if it is okay, we want the money to be spent effectively and that it goes to education too, so at the moment there is no possibility of doing anything about it and taking action. Eventually, on 23 November 2016, I say it out of my mind, there was a statement about a situation in which something like this played out. That was right before the Law on Standards was there. A chairman of a board of directors had paid himself a tonne more than could be considered effective and reasonable in accordance with the laws and regulations at the time. At the time there was a struggle, but it ended up stranded with the judge, because there wasn't a hook somewhere to do something. There has also been a different situation in which a lot of money had been spent on rather ambitious plans without any thought being given to whether each party involved would eventually deliver. There had already been commitments, and then a few parties fell away. There you are as a school. They had to fill the bar. You could really ask yourself whether it was justified and effective that money was put into that. In the end, that court ruling has led us to put a hook in the law in order to do something in such extreme situations. Otherwise, you're standing with your hands behind your back. The Council of State has said that it may have had to be a little sharper. That's when we put the word "evident" in it. The intention is genuinely to apply this in extreme situations. There is financial autonomy for schools. I would like to stress this very strongly. And everything I say here is part of the history of law; you know that. There is financial autonomy. We're not getting that. If we are going to mention all kinds of things in an AMvB or whatever, everything we write down is a bit of financial autonomy. So we don't do that. We respect that financial autonomy. Then we have a supervisor who is just primarily inclined to act if he thinks that the one he has to supervise is not doing well in the financial sense either. That's just the order. In extreme situations, what we now add could possibly be used. That is, of course, also something to be held accountable for. But because of the wide variety of schools it is really impossible to lay that down in fairly hard rules. In the end we didn't go on that path either, although we explored it extensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u139	I understand the Minister's struggle. That same struggle is also the basis for this amendment. The main concern for us, which ultimately led us to table this amendment, is 'evidently unlawful, ineffective spending'. That is such a vague concept that, in our opinion, it has become an empty concept, because it is not going to stand up in court. Then the argument will be: this is so vague, and the financial autonomy of the schools is a great asset. I agree. There's got to be more line-up in it. I would, for my part, like to have a kind of commitment from the Minister to set up a working group to look at this very carefully and to work it out. That this is not entirely possible in this law, because it must also have its progress, I want to understand that, but it needs to be defined in more detail. Otherwise you take it into the law, when you already know in advance that it is empty, that it is not a foundation. It's a bit of building on sand. And I would like to warn the Minister seriously about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u140	There is now a very compelling tone, because we know what Mr Bishop started his contribution with. I think he should take a moment to reflect on the situation that has arisen, also in the light of the court ruling that has been passed. I'm talking about situations you run into that are really obvious they can't. These are, of course, not just border situations, but extreme situations. If you run into that, because you have that financial autonomy high, I have that high, too, and I have no way of doing anything about it. Of course, even a judge will decide on it eventually if one goes further along the path of juridification. You know that happens often; we have to deal with this on a regular basis. Well, okay, then a judge can finally judge that, too. But now we just can't do anything at all. The moment you ask us to just record it, I know we're just gonna crash into it. Let me take the example of ICT. One can see in a school that all kinds of modern tools are being purchased, but that, so to speak, has already happened the year before. I could say that buying a lot of beautiful ICT would fit in that list. No. At one school it is very appropriate and effective, because it has not been done for years but has finally come to something new. At another school you can really reasonably ask yourself whether education money should be invested in it if the year before a total renewal has already taken place but, without the depreciation times having expired for years, there is already being renewed because something new has come onto the market. I know I'm gonna go on slippery ice when I'm gonna give examples. But that's how we talked. I also mention a school in a shrinkage area where things happen, or a school that is in a more solid relationship. In short, the situations differ in such a way that we should ultimately leave that assessment to the inspection in extreme situations. We can ask them if the inspection should simply ask questions to the institutions that they make clear in their own work plans what their working methods are. Moreover, when I look at the amendment, it seems that you want to clarify the way in which you operate in such situations. This is not part of a proper requirement, but is part of the approach taken by the inspection in its investigations. I can imagine you giving the order to give that clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u141	I'm afraid we're not getting all together. This is what we are talking about in this amendment: if you really want to be able to act as a government when there is clearly inefficient spending, then this is not enough ground. This doesn't allow you as a government to achieve what you want to achieve. That is why I would ask the Minister not to be satisfied with: "It is terribly difficult and difficult. We did our best. The judge must ultimately judge." Then you know the judge's gonna blow your whistle back if you don't put it right, if you don't define it sharp enough. So you're further away from home. That's our concern. This can't be happening. This is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u142	The choice is, do you want another hook in the law after all, or don't you want to? We think we can do it this way. Otherwise, of course, I wouldn't have imagined it. We believe that it is really impossible to formulate it in very harsh criteria. If the amendment is adopted, we do not know how to implement it. So if you do not want to, say, do not want to, then you should table an amendment to get it out of the law. We have not chosen to do so, because we think, having listened carefully to the criticism of the Council of State, which has also led to a certain tightening up, that it can simply be done in this way on the basis of the statements that have been made. Of course, it will have to prove in practice whether or not it will actually work. We have not yet had a specific case for this. But we find it unsatisfactory not to include anything in the law at all. This choice has therefore been made in the light of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u143	At this point. I have a feeling the Minister and the Chamber are talking a little bit along the way. Of course, there are many examples where it may be difficult to define what the amendment is intended to do, but I think that we, and Mr Bishop, as a leader in this matter, have identified a number of subjects where you could actually give this a certain form, precisely to prevent the loss of educational money in education and to ensure that it ends up in the place where it should be, namely in the classroom, with the pupils, with the teachers. Now Mr Bishop has done a hand-out by saying: can the Minister not set up a working group so that we can work this out? I thought that was pretty quick to turn that down. I would ask the Minister to consider this hand-out. Perhaps we can arrange this by motion, but I agree with Mr Bishop that we need to take a bigger step here than the Minister's proposal in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u144	We have proposed this as we have proposed it. I have given the reasons for this, and we have done so in writing, and I am now doing so orally, namely that it is really about customisation and that you cannot simply set general standards for it. There is, however, a comparison with education legislation for other types of education, for example for higher education. There's something similar in the law. Moreover, the word 'evident' is not included, and as far as I know that has never really caused problems in practice. But that's where the hook is in the legislation. This is where it's missing. As soon as this bill is passed and it is law, there will of course have to be a further impact. Making experts think about how to do that is not such a bad idea in itself, but it is simply a question of what you do or do not put into the law and whether you think that should be the case for AMvBs. I have indicated that, in all honesty, we do not see how to do this, because the distinction between these schools is so great that there is no clear standard. This has been considered for a long time and has also been discussed with experts. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bishop, together with others, has also tabled an amendment on the MBO. I can be brief about that: I can give judgment Chamber. That, in my view, was the amendment to item No. 7, if it hasn't gotten new proposers again, because then suddenly it's gonna get dizzy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u145	That's still no. 7.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u146	Did it stay 7?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u147	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u148	Well, look at that. There's still some certainty here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u149	So the amendment in part No. 7 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u150	Yeah, that gets judgment room. Mr. Chairman. Of Mr Van Meenen's questions, I have already taken a large number into account in the answer that has been given, including the questions that will come back later and which I know have the great interest of the D66 Group. This also applies, of course, to the period of education and its flexibilisation. In fact, I believe that there is even a debate on the agenda tomorrow in response to a written discussion on this matter. There is also a specific subject, namely the notification to be made, which must be done immediately. You didn't go far enough just now, because I was very interested. I was all ready and thought: now comes a very nice debomination. Anyway, it's gonna be in a different place. In all clarity, I can answer the following. We have simply seen that the way in which it is now written is really not enough. We simply want to have an immediate report, because sometimes it is really a day's work. We simply need to act quickly, there must be a clear standard and there must be information about what is happening in that area, because we have the great task of making sure that we are able to overcome unwanted situations and know what is happening in schools at that point. Hence the choice has been made to do so as we have proposed. Then inform the schools about all the changes that are taking place. Of course, this has always been done by the wide spread of the decision. We can also expect those working in this sector to accept this. We notice on many subjects we are working on that the magazines are also a nice way to communicate. Those magazines are still there, although sometimes they are only distributed digitally. We also assume, of course, that the various educational bodies will do their job. Mr Heerema asked about the state of play regarding the impact of what we discussed together in June on supplementing the instruments of inspection. That was a fair question, especially with the topicality of this week in mind. We believe that sometimes the deadlines are very long. We also think there should be more focus, more speed and so on. "Engagement withdrawn" always sounds a bit heavy, but I can tell you that in my organisation I have insisted on urgency, without affecting quality. We have worked hard and hard to get this legislation ready as soon as possible. I can tell you that, as it now seems, the Internet consultation can start in March. That's really fast, if you know where we were together in June. That means that, if you act quickly, we will be able to talk about the legislation after the summer. You know how laws work. This is a huge achievement. I do not want to say too much about this, because my officials are still working on it and otherwise they will listen to it. They just have to keep going, because it's necessary that this happens properly. Then I come to a subject that is very close to you and me. That's young people and moving, and the broader discussion about what's going on in schools. We have made agreements with each other, but we see in practice that not every school can deliver that education. You have seen the investigation of me and my colleague Bruins. This is also due to housing problems, because the facilities are not optimal in every municipality. You know we're working on that and we're talking about that. And we're also talking to the VNG. Then there is Mr Heerema's amendment. All the considerations you make and things you say, including about funding and so on, are very sensible. The question is now only a matter of principle, and it is a matter of principle whether we think that primary education should be given two hours to one course in order to be valid. It is not a question of whether we think it should be given two hours; look also at what we have agreed in the sectoral agreements. But do we think that should be mentioned in a proper requirement? I have to say, I don't think we should. I must therefore advise against your amendment. Looking at all the other subjects that are there and which we also consider important, I do not think that is the way we should go. I will continue fully on the other path, namely to promote compliance with the agreements. We have made great strides in this respect. We must ensure that the municipalities take their responsibility, because as far as I am concerned, it would be even more than two hours. It is incredibly important that students move and pay attention to this at school. Moreover, I am very pleased that we have made sure with the pressure equipment that there are a lot of professional teachers who do this in a very professional way with the students.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u151	I know the Minister and I are fighting for the same thing. First I have a question about the judgment and then I have a question about the content. Is it true that the opinion you give is purely on the basis of the consideration that two hours should not be required for one subject only, despite what we think of other subjects and how or how long we have been working on that? I think it is justified to say that we are taking that step for gym, physical education or movement education. Doesn't the financial balance affect the Minister's judgment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u152	I just said that. Of course, municipalities have to find finance if there are any problems. You know that we can't just ask the local authorities to provide for this, but we're working on it in a very profound way. My colleague Bruins bears a share of the responsibility for this. No, this is indeed purely a question of whether you think you can make this deviation for one course, no matter how much love you have for that course, and whether you think this justifies doing so in a proper way. You know that something like this happened in the box once. This has, moreover, been brought into the law in a very special way, but a majority of the then Chamber has decided to do so. I do not think that you should do this in this way, but you will hear from my statements that I do not want to shove away from this profession suddenly or your justified demands for space in the schools for movement education. One simply has to keep to the agreements we have made with one another. That's the trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u153	I'm a little disappointed about the second part. I referred to all these interventions, to the additional resources, to the commitment, to the targets, to the agreement on results... None of that has the desired effect. We can continue to hope that education itself will take up the glove sufficiently, but after years and years we simply find that it does not happen. And then, I think, at some point, you have to decide how you want to handle it. How can we possibly get it enforceable? It is one of the few instruments we have. The minister wants to go to the VNG and ask what municipalities can do. He wants to stay in conversation to get those results. But what else does he think he's gonna achieve in the next few days than where he's come from? I just don't have that trust anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u154	I give an opinion on the amendment, the Chamber decides. That's always the affair. In recent years I have also experienced a number of times that my judgment has been heard, but has not been put into practice. The other way around, that happens. It's just the room. I'm just giving my judgment here. Suppose the House accepts your amendment in a majority. Okay, then it's in the law. Then it'll have to go to the First Chamber. What if they think it's a fantastic plan there, too? What's that? Then it's become a harder demand. Then the inspection can proceed with funding measures. Suppose there really is a situation that just doesn't work out because of a situation in a municipality where those facilities are not quite in order. I have the impression that in many schools it is not unwilling. Maybe we should make a list where we can go. I'm even willing to go with you myself, if that's what it takes. We must act on the basis of the law. Then perhaps there will be 15%, then 30% and soon you will come to 100%... If a sanction is imposed in this way, have we brought closer to the goal we want to achieve if we fail to overcome those practical problems? Are we really gonna get on with this? I understand the annoyance; I don't put it under any chairs or benches either. But you also have to count your blessings, because great steps have been taken in recent years. I think that your constant demands have been the basis for this, but we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u155	Locking up. I have heard the Minister say that I have made sensible remarks about these finances. In my opinion, that means, as I was used to it in the city council of Alkmaar, that the municipality receives funds from the Municipal Fund precisely for building the facilities. At the moment when this is included in the validity requirements, a school with a much stronger foot between the door at the municipality can say: we have to build, because we have to deliver from the law what you are not offering us at the moment. That is what I believe will happen if this amendment is adopted. I'm not so opposed to that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u156	I don't think that's the case. Anyway, that's a difference in assessment of the consequences. The question of principle remains. There are also people who have culture in their hearts and who believe that more needs to be done about it. There are people who find something else, you name it. We also have our core subjects. If you take only one out of it, even if you have a certain right to speak about agreements we have made in the sector agreements, then I find that very difficult: one has to be in it and the other has not. I'm very honest with you about that. That's why I'm judging. I'm making another suggestion in your direction. The moment we have sharper in whatever places it really is unwilling, it's interesting. Then you can report to me on that. If I see it myself, I'll perform too, because we'll have a conversation. The second is that there is a local democracy and that things can also be discussed there. In short, there may still be some opportunities to raise the current rate further. Where that can be done, I would certainly like to make a contribution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u157	I have received this request earlier from the Minister, for example when I spoke about gifted schools. The Minister always says: name names and numbers, because then I can perform. I did, and then all sorts of messages about schools in January filled my mailbox, because those schools, even though I mentioned them here in the room, still sent invoices to those children. I kind of feel like things are gonna be the same here. As a Member of Parliament, I must now see which schools may have unwillingness to do this and report it to the Minister. I think we should do it the other way around. I am very curious to know which locations in the Netherlands and which municipalities in the Netherlands simply do not want to build enough accommodation space. I think that's a very nice assignment for the Ministry. The Ministry simply has to find out for itself which schools do not want to have enough to take care of their children properly. I don't think you should put that in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u158	Mr President, I thought Mr Heerma was interested in thinking a little more about what is possible. I'm gonna leave it at that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u159	Let's get this over with. All the amendments have now been submitted by you. The amendment in part No. 13 is therefore not recommended and I think I have just forgotten to say that the amendment to item No. 14 has also been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u160	What amendment is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u161	The amendment in part No. 14 replaces the amendment in part No. 11.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u162	That is Mr Rog's amendment on the AMvB that should be tabled. That's right. Mr Bishop has taken responsibility for the defence of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u163	Does it make sense for Members of Parliament to repeat what the judgments are? Do you want me to do that quick? The amendment in part No. 13 is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 12 gets judgment room. The amendment in part No. 14, formerly No. 11, is dissuaded. The amendment in part No. 15, formerly No. 10, is not recommended. The amendment in part No. 8 is not recommended and the amendment to item No. Finally, 7 gets judgment Chamber. There's a silence now, but I think this is what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u164	I think that's right, Mr. Chairman. It is a pity that Mr Rog is not here, because I am going to compliment him. He saw very clearly that there was a wrong figure in the explanatory memorandum, namely the percentage of annual reports published. Indeed, 98% of secondary education has published an annual report, which is a high percentage. The fact that I mention this in this debate in this way is also the correction that we are making now with regard to what was written in the explanatory statement on page 11. Mr. Chairman. I have now answered Mrs Westerveld's questions and I have also provided an opinion on her amendment. In the meantime, I have also reviewed Mr Beertema's subjects. I think that I have answered the questions of all the Members of Parliament and provided an opinion on all the amendments, and that brings me to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u165	Thank you. Then I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. That is the case and I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u166	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can keep it pretty short. Three points were central to the SP tonight. One is the approach to segregation. We welcome the Minister's assessment of our amendment. We now also hope that, after the slow revitalisation, let me put it this way, from the municipal consultation, we will finally be able to take the next step with this amendment. Homeowners. I'm glad the Ministry is talking to them. I would appreciate it if the points they hear specifically from the inspection could be taken into account. Quite apart from the wide-ranging discussion on how the whole future of appropriate education is going to look, it can have added value in the situation of the here and now, the situation in which these children have unfortunately been sitting for far too long. Finally, because you should never end up with good news: I just don't feel comfortable reviewing the educational concepts. I am open to suggestions for a better text. I am not necessarily dependent on the wording that Mr Beertema and I have chosen. But just "explain it in your school plan" is really too skinny for us. A discussion with the inspection of whether the instruments are sufficient is also too thin. Why? Because the inspection has already informed us a year and a half ago that the instruments are not sufficient. That was at the heart of her main point in the State of Education, namely: we see that it is happening more and more and we can't really do anything about it. If there is nothing the inspection can do about it, I think that is by definition an illustration of the lack of its instruments. So I would like to ask the Minister: how can we describe it in such a way that it has more substance than just 'define your way of working'? That is what I am asking for when the Minister expects entire tribal struggles to take place when the amendment is adopted as it stands, with the scientific definition in it. It's really about getting more body. Why schools make such a choice should be better argued. The problem is big enough for it. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u167	Thank you. I call Mrs van den Hul of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, too, will be brief tonight. We're talking about standards tonight. Dignity requirements are closely linked to educational quality, which is under serious pressure. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the quality of education is monitored by the educational inspection;]] [[Considering that aldermen from the four major cities are deeply concerned about the effects on their pupils of the emergency plans born as a result of the shortage of teachers, and in particular the opportunities of the most vulnerable pupils;]] [[noting that these aldermen indicated that legal frameworks should be temporarily resisted in order to cope with the acute shortage of teachers and that structural problems could not be solved by means of occasional money;]] [[noting that these aldermen indicate that as long as a structural investment is not carried out, schools are dependent on crisis measures;]] [[believes that emergency crisis measures, such as those resulting from emergency plans, should never become the norm in education;]] [[calls on the Government to respond to the call for structural investment in the assessment of emergency plans and, if necessary, to extend legal frameworks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35102-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u169	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the thorough answer he has given to the questions and for the scope for discussion which he has left for further reflection. We haven't quite come together. Thank you for the positive opinion on the one amendment, the amendment in part No. 7. As far as the amendment on item No. 8 We shall look internally to see to what extent it is appropriate to separate the three elements that have been included. If necessary, we will inform colleagues, as well as the executive. I shall now turn to the last amendment, the amendment to item No. 14. If it is already so difficult in an AMvB to define the term "evidently inefficient spending," do you not have to have a crystal ball or to be a soothsayer or prophet in order to predict that this can never become a legal basis for a conviction? Then it is too vague, too undefined, too unlined for everyone. So at this point I continue to insist on continuing to look for a clearer framework, a clearer approach, to determine what we mean by that in certain circumstances. I don't have the solution ready to go either. But I don't want to resign... Let me put it this way: I find it extremely unsatisfactory and unacceptable that, with such a wording, we should send this law so openly into the world. This does not lead to the objective that we have in mind. So this is a lot of discontent. I do not blame the Minister, but it is an appeal, also in your direction, Minister, that we should not accept this from ourselves. So I would like to take action on this. We are willing to think creatively about it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u170	Thank you. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u171	Mr. Chairman. In my view, I have just tabled the shortest amendment from at least my parliamentary career. That amendment says that we will refrain from requiring schools to report a suspension without delay. Let us have a little faith that such an order measure is not taken for nothing. So let's not demand that. I am still considering tabling an amendment which removes the stricter requirements for continuity. This is because I am very concerned, especially after the debate I had with the Minister on this issue, that this will lead to a further depletion of reserves and because I think that the problems that we want to solve with it are so marginal that we need to be tailor-made and do not have to take a rude measure to increase the amount of funding everywhere. This is complicated, so I'm gonna think about it. But I'll let you know in time. Let's talk about the law of learning. Last Monday, as part of our school trip, I was on a school visit in Class on Wheels in Alkmaar, that beautiful city. That's where I talked to India, among other things. India cannot talk, India is severely plurally limited, but India is actually in her wheelchair with all its limitations in an ordinary primary school. And why can she sit there? Not because she is a student, because she needs to be given an exemption from compulsory education in order to be eligible for the healthcare resources available. That's very bad. That is why I believe that children, all children in the Netherlands, including children like them, should really be given the right to education. That is what I wanted to say, particularly in the direction of Mr Beertema. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion which seeks to help in the impasse that threatens to arise in relation to the amendment on the basis of educational concepts. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the educational inspection finds that basic education uses experimental educational concepts which are not well-founded and which harm the interests of children;]] [[Whereas each child is entitled to good education based on sound evidence;]] [[calls on the Minister, in consultation with the Education Inspectorate, to establish a viable and manageable review framework for the soundness of educational concepts and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the next budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35102-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u172	Finally, Mr President. Anyone who votes in favour of the amendment on suspension, I promise that I will tell you in confidence about my suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u173	Look, that's an offer. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u174	Does that fit within our oath?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u175	I don't know. I have to find out. Mr. Heerema of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u176	Mr. Chairman. I can make a bridge between one of the last parts of Mr Van Meenen's contribution and I would like to make a comment about it in the second term. We have spoken a number of times in the Chamber about education and care, and about the declaration of admissibility for children which should actually be able to receive this statement for the entire school period. We asked the Minister to do so by way of a motion, but that was not carried out at the time. We asked as a committee to look at it again, but the answer was also negative. Now it turns out that you can also find a hook through the robustness requirements to simply give the declaration of admissibility to the children who it concerns, namely the severely limited children. If the Minister is unable to settle it by means of the motion or by means of a letter of commission, then I would like to have a response from the Minister to the statement that our only chance is to just lay it down in the law. That is why I am considering another amendment, which now lies with the Bureau of Legislation, to regulate this by law in the proper requirements. I'd like to give that to the Minister. That amendment will come to the Chamber tomorrow if it's all right. I should like to hear the Minister's reflection on this. Although I greatly appreciate the Minister's enthusiasm for movement education, I am a little reluctant about his reaction. I'm gonna have to chew on that. 'Cause I'm really looking for a way to move this beyond what we've been able to do in all these years. Yeah, we've taken steps, but no, still too few kids just get two hours of movement education in primary school. That is why I am addressing my final question to you, Mr President. I do not know if I can arrange that from this place, but I would appreciate it if we would vote on this law not this Tuesday, but one Tuesday later. In fact, I think that we could use a little more time for some of the amendments before us. I am thinking of Mrs Westerveld's amendment, but also of Mr Kwint's amendment. I think there's a lot of feeling about how to shape that. We could use a little more time to make sure we do it in an orderly and sound manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u177	Thank you. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u178	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. I am glad that he is able to give a ruling on the amendment I tabled with Mr Kwint. I have one more question. It is in line with the question I asked at the beginning, namely why such a thing as accessibility is not a necessity. That's the question I asked about the list we got from the Ministry. This includes, for example, criteria of validity such as optional social internships, the use of the Frisian language, and the naming of a school in society. Those are all relevant things too. There is also "support for the education of sick children" in between, but the accessibility of the school is not included. As may have appeared in the debate, the Minister said that it is also because no one has ever asked for it. I would like to ask the Minister whether he thinks it would be desirable for us to take a closer look at this. Perhaps we can include the accessibility of the school and the extent to which the school teaches children with disabilities or a severe multiple disability as a requirement of validity. I'm just curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u179	Thank you, Mrs Westerveld. Finally, Mr Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u180	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for his detailed reply and, of course, also the officials who contributed to it. I would like to return to the beautiful story of Mr Van Meenen, to what he experienced with India in Alkmaar. Of course, it is fantastic that India can get education in this way, despite the handicaps. I do not think this has so much to do with the discussion on learning rights and compulsory education. The fact that she needs an exemption from compulsory education in order to be eligible for medical care is a bureaucratic monstrum which, of course, we can do something about in any way we can. Having said that, I would also like to add my voice to the last appeal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u181	Before proceeding, Mr Van Meenen has a question on that previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u182	Thank you for these fine words about this. I am concerned that this exemption from compulsory schooling for this institution also means that it is not eligible for educational resources. That's the point. In my view, that would be the case if you had the right to education, regardless of your disability and regardless of your problem. We are going to talk about this again in the context of health and education, but I hope that Mr Beertema is prepared to look at it together. We should not fall over words like duty and justice. That's not the point at all. If we look together how we can make things better for these kids among others, then he's my friend as always. He is even if he says no now, but I hope he says yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u183	Look! Mr. Beertema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u184	He knows how to make it dramatic, my colleague Van Meenen. Of course it is. Of course we'll talk about it further, absolutely. Just a little bit more about the last call from the SP. In any case, the problem of "How shall I put it?" Those hippie education concepts on the agenda. Mr. Heerema has said a few things about it and the Minister has said a few things about it. I sincerely hope that we will continue to talk about this. Again, I'm not much awake. But the fact that whole cohorts are sacrificing children in these kinds of educational experiments is very important to me. I just wanted to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u185	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. I shall suspend for a few moments so that the Minister can reflect briefly on his response, and then we will move on to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u186	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you to the Chamber for taking part in the second term. There are, in fact, a number of issues that it is good to discuss with each other. We have discussed fairly extensively the scientific basis for school concepts and the comments made by the inspection in the State of Education on the fact that there have been quite a few such concepts in recent years. Through you, Madam President, I have indicated to the Chamber that supervision is simply based on all the requirements we impose on schools and that action is taken on this basis when they fail to meet those requirements, whatever school they are and whatever concept they have. That's what we're doing. The inspection has never asked for this to be justified, I would also like to say in your direction. I have indicated that with Mr Kwint's amendment, which Mr Beertema has also signed, we will end up somewhere in a swamp that we would rather not end up in. Indeed, after an interruption by Mr Van Meenen, I indicated that I would be happy to continue the discussion, including with the inspection, to see what is needed or not to be able to keep a little more on the wrist there, in order to put it that way. Mr Van Meenen has now tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject, the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Van Meenen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party A review framework would mean that it would be taken immediately to ensure that it would become a valid requirement, otherwise it would not be possible to enter into a review framework. Can I understand your motion in such a way that I am going to talk to the inspection to discuss with them whether there really should be additional work to be done? In short, am I going to have the conversation I had with you and report back to you? Then, on the basis of this report, we can judge with each other whether or not we really need to take a further step of our own. Then that can be taken into account in the next periodic review by the summer. If that's the way I understand the motion, I'll give her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u188	Of course, that sounds very tempting, but this is not the way the motion is meant to be. The only thing I am trying to do here with this motion is to find a way between Mr Kwint's amendment and Mr Beertema's amendment and do nothing. I do think that should end up in something. Not in a conversation, and then we'll see. No. I very much understand the fact that the requirement set out in the amendment goes too far. I myself had an exchange of views with Mr Kwint on this. But I do think something needs to be done. I say quite frankly that Mr Kwint has pointed this out to me with his amendment. Now we must take a step forward on this occasion. Let us also be the Minister's goal of tackling something here. If the minister comes back from "well, it can't all be" and I know what, we'll see what else we can do. But in principle, I think that the starting point should be: how are we really going to act against what the inspection finds in annual reports?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u189	I didn't say anything should happen here either. If I say that I want to start the conversation, I also understand very well that we think the current situation is a little too passive with regard to what is happening and also with regard to the alerts from the inspection. We've had that discussion before. The only question is whether we should make the basic choice now that this will ultimately have to result in a proper requirement. I would also like to take the view of the inspection into account. I will report back to you on this as soon as possible. Of course, that's just the time to hit each other and say: that's the way it goes. So as far as I'm concerned, there's no obligation whatsoever. If I had wanted no commitment, I would have put all of this under the carpet, so to speak, and I don't want that either. Your motion is very clear. We should not let this issue go away now because we do not think an amendment is workable. We want to talk about it in a targeted manner and see what is possible. That's the conversation I'm gonna have. I will report to you on that and then we will determine with each other what might be the appropriate course of action in a case where the Chamber says quite widely that it would like more action to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u190	We are approaching each other, but I am also thinking for a moment about whether I can bring the wording a little more in the direction of the Minister. That's what I find a little tricky about the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u191	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u192	In my view, however, there must be a concrete outcome. If that's anything other than a proper requirement, whatever, if anything happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u193	What do we say? We have a motion here. He gets judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u194	Yeah, I think that's for the best. Then I'll see what I write in it later!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u195	We're not gonna do that! In the end, the Chamber itself is also concerned with its voting behaviour. You know that, too. But at the time when it is said that a review framework must be established, you are already over the threshold and you say that it must be justified. That's what I'm saying. That's a little too fast for me right now. I would also like to have a discussion with the inspection about what they consider to be additional necessary in order to do something here. Perhaps that will also be necessary, but let us not set this as a starting point without the conversation already taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u196	Actually, the minister says, "Don't recommend it unless it's changed."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u197	If the motion continues in this form and is also meant to be so tight...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u198	Exactly. That's where I want to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u199	...and I'm gonna tip her off. If Mr Van Meenen, and I know his agility, when it comes to texts, at least...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u200	There is no further, my agility!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u201	We can talk about this for a long time now, but when I hear it like that, the Minister actually says he's going to discourage the motion unless you change the operative part. That's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u202	It's clear, yeah. I can think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u203	If you leave the space that may be possible other options, we have found each other right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u204	We'll figure it out, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u205	Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Hul has tabled a motion on a subject that we are working very hard on. Those are the contingency plans. I usually place them in quotes. Indeed, it has been asked from the G5 that, if one really gets into situations that one is difficult to act in the way one is used to, one is given the space to sometimes act outside of law and regulation in the context of the provision of education. You are asking for structural money. I advise against this motion. We have had the debate on the financial side of the budget. Parliamentary rulings have been or have not been honoured there. This is not the moment when we have structural money available. With this motion, you make me feel so frustrated that if we do not make structural funds available and cannot carry out the plans, the cities we are working so hard with, including the municipalities, will not be able to continue with what they have achieved with very hard work over the last few weeks. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u206	I'll be brief. This appreciation doesn't surprise me. This will not surprise the Minister again after everything we have already exchanged in the budget, but I would like to correct one thing. The Minister says that the proposers here are asking for that structural money, but that structural money is asking for the education aldermen from the G4. They say very clearly in that letter of fire which I started my contribution with today, that quality cannot be guaranteed, that they cannot guarantee that, that opportunity inequality is growing and that at the moment it simply cannot be provided with the education required by the law of them. They say that structural additional money is needed. That is a call I put forward in my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u207	That is an additional explanation of the motion. My judgment stands. I also continue to work very hard with these municipalities without delay at this difficult time when it comes to labour market problems. Mr Bishop pointed out that he continued to have difficulty with the provision in the law on "evidently effective" and its assessment. I said what I said about that. There was one more example that I did not use in the first term, but which might make it clear what it means if something is obviously not effective. There was a vo-school in a big city that had rented a skybox at a football club with tuition fees. I do not think that we have any doubt about the use of these resources. I'd almost say that's not what any school does. But there was one who did. So these are a bit of the examples you need to think about. They're really exceptional examples of things we just don't want. And there was nothing we could do. With this hook in the law, you could act against it. I wonder if that will not last if it is actually carried on. It is even a question of whether we should do so. I have had Mr Van Meenen's motion. Mr. Heerema mentioned the TV. In all conscience, we believe that the motion has been carried out. I know that you have different views on this and that you have asked for a letter on it. Let me just keep it short. You're coming with an amendment. Okay, so we heard. I will make sure that the Chamber is fully informed about how we have carried out this motion. I am truly surprised because we have done everything we could, even with extra money and everything, to do what we could for this target group that we were so deeply in agreement with each other, namely to create more space there. So I have no idea why we wouldn't have found each other at this point somehow. However, we still have some time left, because you asked for the votes to be postponed. I hope that we will get out of there, because I think we are at the same end of the line when it comes to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u208	I would like to clarify this very briefly. There's room in the letter. We are indeed on the same side of the rope. Money has become available. But there is room in the letter so that partnerships can decide not to give the declaration of admissibility for the entire school period. That is what is happening in Limburg, for example, and we do not want it to happen. We want every child in the Netherlands simply to receive a declaration of eligibility for the entire school period. We just have to take that away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u209	I believe that an additional letter has been requested through the procedural meeting, so I will send it. I do so in one move with an opinion on the amendment. I really hope that we are not going to go down the road now of laying down standards on issues where we are not entirely satisfied with the implementation. I would like to take up the warning given by Mr Bruijn once in a motion. Mr. Chairman. In fact, Mrs Westerveld would like to have a further discussion on why accessibility is not a necessity. We could agree that we will continue to address this issue at the general consultation on 5 February, where we are talking about education and care. Then I can also think about it, because this has never been a subject on my plate, despite the fact that I have been working on this subject for a very long time. Then I think I have come to the end of the second-term response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u210	It may be my fault, but all I am missing is an opinion on Mr Van Meenen's amendment. That is the shortest amendment he has ever produced.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u211	Oh, yeah. How could I forget? That amendment is about the fact that a suspension must also be reported. I really dissuade this amendment. I was gonna say "stupidly," but that might be a little heavy. There's really a problem behind these suspensions. There's already a duty to report. We have noticed in concrete cases that schools did not, for whatever reason. We talked this morning about whether there is any embarrassment or embarrassment. I don't know, but we've noticed they're not doing something they have to do. That's really, really bad. It is precisely in these situations that we need to get to it quickly, because there is often a multi-problem behind it. This isn't about a kid skipping class or anything. It's really about suspensions. There's often a whole world behind it. We really live in a little different time than when you and I were growing up. This isn't falling out of the sky. There is really a very strong desire to ensure that these reports are made equally, so that we know and can act. That is sometimes connected to the world around such a child. I may be making things very difficult in your eyes now, but if you break it out of the law with an amendment now, I'm just saying a little bit of homework, then suddenly the pressure has gone away from municipalities, and from schools to municipalities, to do what I think is already being asked of them. We just didn't specify that it should just happen right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u212	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u213	If they take two days for it, it's really not a problem. But the important thing is that it happens quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u214	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u215	Not to mention whether it was all so much better and different in our youth... We'll have to talk about that again. Of course I understand that there is multi-problem et cetera et cetera, but there are no people who know that better than the people at a school. A suspension is not a measure you take to solve a multi-problem. No, you take it because an order is taken against a student. I am confident that this measure will be taken with great restraint. That is very rare and if it occurs, then there is absolutely no reason for it. The last thing you're thinking about is that you get another call from the inspector, and you have to explain everything very precisely: did he do this or did he do that? I've been there. I really think we have better things to worry about than reporting suspensions. My opinion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u216	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u217	The duty to report is already here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u218	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u219	We have found in practice that in a number of situations this happened very late, and sometimes too late. That is where this necessity comes from. We're really not doing this to bother schools and to make things even more complicated. This is really about caring for kids. When it comes to our time and how it used to be: since I betrayed your amendment, I will never hear from you exactly what you have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u220	No, we're not doing this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u221	I'll take that loss, Madam President. That was the last thing I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u223	I'll make an exception for the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u224	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-22-tweedekamer-12.u225	I propose that the votes on the amendments, the legislative proposal and the motions for resolutions be taken in a week's time.
