ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the commemoration of the death of Minister of State Mr Van Kemenade. He died on 19 February 2020 at the age of 82. My name is his family, his children, Ferd-Jan with partner and Pieter, his grandson Joran, Uncle Kees and Henny Nijman. I would also like to welcome the Prime Minister and the Minister for Medical Care. I would ask everyone in the Chamber and in the public gallery to stand up, if possible. Politics was not a choice for Van Kemenade, but an essential part of his existence. He also had a high degree of social involvement that Van Kemenade expected from others. As the son of an accountant and grandson of a carpenter, he was the first in his family to study. And next to a high working ethic, that brought him a deeply lived conviction that equal opportunities for every person could lead to a better society. Fundamental reforms in education had to contribute to achieving that ideal. Jos van Kemenade was taken to The Hague by Den Uyl. He was only 36, but already had a lightning career in social science. And he noticed because of his ideas about educational renewal, as founder of the Institute of Applied Sociology. In the legendary first cabinet of Den Uyl, which favored the spread of knowledge, power and income, the young idealist was the dreamed minister of education with the wits and the strength of action. Those who hear the name Van Kemenade think of the revolutionary mid-school experiments, which, due to the unusually sharp political contradictions of that time, have not led to a definitive introduction. But on the wave of that stranded project there are many far-reaching educational reforms that he did achieve, such as the Open University and the introduction of second chance education, which was an important tool for women and disadvantaged workers to make a leap forward. After the fall of the first cabinet-Den Uyl, Van Kemenade sat in the Chamber for the full four years, despite several offers. He made his maiden speech on March 1, 1978. Not only are his words anchored in the Acts, but a photograph of him is also included. We see him in the old conference room, in the sitting room, his hand firmly on the hip, facing him with Mrs Ginjaar-Maas of the VVD on the interrupt microphone. It can be read in the Acts that she addresses him as Minister: "Mr President! Can I interrupt the minister... the ex-minister?" To which Mr Van Komenade says: 'It's getting used to, isn't it?' In order to put forward a glowing statement of substance, it concerned the Education budget for 1978. After his period, Van Kemenade chose to serve as minister in two Cabinets and his membership of the Chamber for various reasons for a governing position in the field of education. But politics didn't let him go his whole life. As minister, MP, mayor and commissioner of the Queen, he inhabited the entire house of Thorbecke. This made him the political heavyweight, which later made him Minister of State. Van Kemenade was a popular chairman of investigations into serious and mostly sensitive issues. He never failed, even though sometimes he was full of winds. Although he never cared about criticism, politics taught him to relativize. Jacques Wallage once said that, as a starting MP, he complained that this position did not seem to make him very happy. To which Van Kemenade replied: "Jacques, politics is not there to make you happy." But in his beliefs he continued to believe unconditionally. Equivalence between people, empowering and involved citizens, and the total development of each individual as a basis for a strong democratic society. That drove him and he fought for it. Until the end. Jos van Kemenade wrote a number of books on the subjects that occupied him. They are thoughtful, clearly written and accessible. But the titles are poetic; they refer to nature. He has written a wonderful report on education policy for immigrant students. I remember that very well. That's what he called Cedars in the garden. His work breathes the spirit of the writers and poets who were read in the social democratic circles of the time of Den Uyl. That's why I'd like to conclude with the words of one of those poets, Adriaan Roland Holst: I won't see the halms anymore. nor bind ever the full sheaves, But make me believe in the harvest for which I serve. I wish the family much strength with this loss and give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President. Journalists who asked Jos van Kemenade what drove him as Minister of Education sometimes got a short, but much more often a somewhat longer answer. The short answer was: empowering more people. These four words contained a vision of society, which he once expressed with a little more text as follows: "What really matters is to teach people to change society, to determine it themselves. That means learning to drive yourself, not by me, but by talking, by knowing, by doing. We are responsible for democracy in 20 years' time. Without mature people, there will be no democracy. (...) When it really comes to freedom and independence, we will have to equip people better." For Jos van Kemenade, education was the instrument for a democratic, open and equal society, a society in which everyone has equal opportunities. That was his ideal. He believed in this for a lifetime; as a social democrat and as a child of his time, but certainly also as the first of his family to kick it to the gymnasium and the university. And how! In 2006, four years after his retirement as Queen's Commissioner, he argued in an article for a two-year secondary school, for a six-year havo and for the combination of vmbo and mbo. It doesn't take much to hear the echo from the mid-seventies school, with which his name will remain connected forever. The young educational sociologist Jos van Kemenade came into the country in 1973 as a highly educated specialist and left The Hague as a generalist in 1984. In the intervening years he was poked and beaten as a minister, as a parliamentarians, as a prominent member of his party and not to mention as an informant in 1982. He once described the latter role as: "My most beautiful experience. Because that's where I really had to function on the tips of my toes. Intellectually highly satisfactory." It's a pronunciation that fits the image I personally have of him. For the times when I was allowed to meet him as Minister of State, I was always impressed by his erudition, his analytical mind, and also by his profoundness, his kindness. Take you apart. "Mark, pay attention..." And then there was a sensible advice. His work spirit is legendary. Especially as a young minister, he preferred to take the whole education system at once. A fellow party member seems to have told him once: "Josh, what has not brought about 2,000 years of Christianity, you do not have to do in four years." But yes, that was the nature of the animal, or at least part of it, because in addition to passionate and tireless Jos van Kemenade was indeed friendly and approachable. In addition to the business man of content, he was also idealist. And besides the analytical director he was also the driven politician, who for a reason considered Joop den Uyl as his teacher. He once rejected a top position in the financial world with the argument that he could contribute more in public administration to "a society in which people treat each other decently," as he called it. I believe that this has indeed explained his course of life: a life in the service of the public cause, of a man who has never been called in vain for another post or another Presidency. As a former minister, MP, mayor and commissioner of the Queen, you said, Chairman, he knew Thorbecke's house completely. He'd seen all the holes and corners. That government of state came to him and sat him as well as cast. Madam President. Jos van Kemenade once described himself as "a commuter between scientific and administrative activities." In that continuous movement he has done and meant a lot for our country in many different functions. For that we remain grateful to him and we commemorate him with the deepest respect. On behalf of the cabinet, I wish his family and other next of kin every strength in the processing of this great loss.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you. I would now ask you to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-03-10-tweedekamer-2.u4	I shall now suspend for a few moments my condolences to Mr Van Komenade's family. I want to remind you that you must not shake hands.
