ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u1	Good morning, Mr. Asscher. I actually wanted to give everyone a warm welcome first and I'm going to start with that. I would like to welcome all Members of Parliament. I warmly welcome the Prime Minister, as well as Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Schouten, Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, Deputy Prime Minister De Jonge, Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Ollongren, Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery. Have I had everyone? Oh, yes, and the Minister of Economic Affairs. But he can't hear it, because he's on his phone. Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u2	Madam President, welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u4	I want to make a point of order. We got the papers yesterday at the Tax Plan and all the legislative proposals. In addition, the bill for the proposed measure BIK was missing, to which 2 billion is spent. That's one of the biggest shifts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u5	Let's get the shortcut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u6	Job-related Investment Discount. Actually, there's not much more to it. That is a problem, because there is no justification and we would very much like to be able to assess how many jobs that will create. Especially at this time of rising unemployment, we think there are other uses. So I would ask, as a point of order, about these missing pieces of legislation to send the underlying memos, documents and supporting documents to the Chamber, as a matter of course, and if there is no legislative proposal, so that we can involve them in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u7	I see Mr Klaver, I see Mr Wilders. You support this request? Yeah? Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u8	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I fully support this. It is quite strange to spend 2 billion without any justification. I would also like to know where this idea came from and how contacts have been on this subject. But there's one more point in it. 300 million is spent on a VNO-NCW fund and there is also no justification for it. So there is 300 million going to a so-called solvency fund, but what it is going to do is completely unclear. We're going to see if it's really going to solve a problem, but as a Chamber, we're going to have to agree to 300 million going to big business as well. So we would also like to receive the underlying documents on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u9	Support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u10	Mr. Chairman. We would also like to make this request, also because it very much looks like this is going to be a dividend tax 3.0. We first had the abolition of the dividend tax; we discussed this for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u11	You support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u12	Oh, yeah. In the end, it didn't work out under great pressure. Then we had to lower the profit tax. Same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u13	No, I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u14	And now we would actually get the same thing with the so-called BIK. That is where the documents come in if that is what is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u15	That goes for you, too, Mr. Azarkan? Because then I'm going to look at the Prime Minister, see if he can tell us briefly if we can get that information. And otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u16	Maybe you should suspend, because it looks a little messy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u17	No, it's very domestic here, so it can be fine. The Prime Minister. Can you say something about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u18	Mr. Chairman. It is foreseen that this bill will come on 5 October. Of course, that applies to more things in the budget. Not everything's all worked out. This is always the case with budgets, so I think it is good and it can then be discussed in detail. So that's how it's planned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u19	Sorry, Chairman. This is the biggest shift there is. I can imagine that a detail in the agricultural budget will be further worked out, but that really cannot be done here. Today we have the General Reviews on the state budget. If there is no basis, the Prime Minister can let us know. That is, in itself, a relevant fact. I'd be very worried about that, but I'm assuming there's a basis. It should just be in the room. He should have been here yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u20	All right, but the answer is that the information is available, but on 5 October. Let me get this straight. That's the new announcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u21	October 5th, and it also has to go to the Council of State first. That is, of course, the case with a lot of documents in the budget. It's not like there's all the legislative proposals here, all the cases. So this comes October 5th, with the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u22	Good. Finally, Mr Asscher, and then we shall begin the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u23	Yesterday there was in the documents the Act modification box 3, the Act differentiation transfer tax, the Act feasibility surcharges, the Act CO-tax industry of which €0 comes in next year, the Act ODE rates 2021, the Act one-time rent reduction tenants. Where is the justification for this measure? EUR 2 billion, it is strange as a crisis measure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u24	Mr Asscher, with you I see Mr Klaver, Mr Wilders, Mr Azarkan and Mrs Marijnissen. You've made your point. The information comes to the Chamber, but on October 5th.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u25	Do you propose to postpone the debate until 5 October?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u26	No, we're just gonna keep the General Political Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u27	Mr President, 2 billion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u28	That is the agenda, unless the majority of the Chamber decides otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u29	It would be good if other parties too...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u30	No, not for a while, Mr. Asscher. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u31	It has every appearance of what they did with the dividend tax. It's not about a small thing. This is about EUR 2 billion, and you can say that we are going to deal with this in the Tax Plan, but these are the General Political Reviews. We need to be able to discuss everything here, and I really don't understand why it's not here right now. That's what we're asking for: please bring that up, even if it's not finished, but at least give more insight than it is now. I have no idea what...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u32	No, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u33	I have no idea what this is about and what the employment effect should be. I would really like to hear from the cabinet that at least they are in favour of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u34	I think enough arguments have been exchanged about when the documents come to the Chamber. I would actually like to propose that we start the debate, unless you think otherwise. But as far as I know, the majority intends to hold the debate on the General Political Reviews. That's the conclusion I'm drawing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u35	Mr. Chairman. I understand from that that the coalition parties choose to remain seated and not to comment on this normal question of information. We can make that observation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u36	You've made your point. Would you like to say something, Mrs. Marijnissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u37	If I may supplement one thing, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u38	Well, I'd rather not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u39	It seems to me that it is relevant that this has been replaced by a further reduction in the tax on profits. That is something that we have been discussing here as a Chamber for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u40	That is what you said, thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Mr Dijkhoff, or Mr Azarkan first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u41	I am very curious to know what Mr Dijkhoff thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u42	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u43	It's so sweetly asked, I can't refuse. I actually feel like discussing all this later, just in my input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u44	Then that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u45	We are not going to vote on the budget this week, we are going to hold general reviews. Then there will be a tax plan with financial considerations. I think that the opposition can say very often that it does not think it is a good idea, and we think it is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u46	Thank you. Now we're just gonna have the debate. I was in the middle of welcoming everyone. Before we begin, I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the chairman in this house. That means you're using the third person instead of "you." I would say: try to avoid the word "you" as much as possible, unless you address me. But that too must be avoided as much as possible. Furthermore, this debate on corona measures is different from usual. Box K is less full than we are used to and unfortunately the 150 Members of Parliament cannot all be here. I also hope that my e-mail box this year will not be filled with comments about the use of MPs' mobile phones, but also of directors. I also hope that the interruptions are very short and concise. Plenty of speaking time has been indicated, in which you can say a lot of things. Finally. This year, for the first time, the debate on the General Political Reviews will also be made accessible to the deaf and the hearing impaired by means of a gesture interpreter. That's a very nice historical moment. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Convicted. Twelve days ago, I, the leader of the largest opposition party in the Netherlands, was convicted in a political trial. Convicted by three wandering lights from the court of The Hague who call themselves judges and feel that I have compromised the honour and good name of Moroccans. Like Moroccans need me for that. Nobody, but nobody insults the group of Moroccans more than Moroccans themselves. We have seen again this summer in large parts of the Netherlands, which I have been warning almost daily for 15 years: the terrible Moroccan terror that makes our neighbourhoods and cities unsafe. Moroccan settlers, waving their national flag, burn the place down and smash the police with stones, and get away with it again and again. There are now millions of Dutch people who would love less Moroccans, but a question about this cannot be asked if you are the leader of the largest opposition party and are called Geert Wilders. You'll be in court for six years. Then there are politicians who would like to cut you down and then there are officials who hate you and on behalf of the then VVD minister help the Public Prosecutor to get you convicted. And then the judiciary says: fine, then we're gonna settle that. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is no longer a rule of law. The arbitrariness prevails. The separation of powers only exists on paper and the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judges have become the extension of the cabinet. Prime Minister Rutte speaks loudly about the functioning of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary, but he himself is the prime minister of an intensely corrupt country. People with displeasure are no longer protected by freedom of expression, but must be forced to participate in the politically correct dictatorship of the left-liberal majority. And anyone who doesn't, has been declared outlawed, is, like me, being dealt with in a political process or, as was the case with those brave blocker fries earlier, giving up DNA, because they were trying to protect the tradition of Saint Nicholas and Black Piet, or are being sent to the army because they want to protect their profession as a hard-working farmer and farmer from the climate and nitrogen terror.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u48	Mr Wilders begins his speech by saying that he has been treated unfairly. I listened yesterday to the words of our king, who said that it is unacceptable for people to be treated differently on the basis of their last name or on the basis of their origin. Does Mr. Wilders recognize himself in that story of the king?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u49	I thought it was a pretty one-sided story. I think that I shall come back to this later in my text and say that it is precisely the Dutch who are discriminated against. I think that the whole story of discrimination, where it occurs, is that, of course, the wrong thing is greatly exaggerated in the Netherlands, that it is heavily induced. We have 17,5 million inhabitants, as you know, and last year 123 cases of discrimination were reported to the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's 123 too many, of course, but that's nothing at all. That is nothing compared to the image that is being sketched, that Dutch people are all people who discriminate against people in their name, their origin and their colour. Total bullshit! It is the Dutch who are being hunted down in the streets, who are being called names, who are being robbed and attacked. The Dutch are discriminated against!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u50	It was last year, so I assume that Mr Wilders himself was not in that statistics. That's only gonna happen this year. But if Mr Wilders is against discrimination, how can that actually be his earning model? He wants women with headscarfs to pay extra taxes. He wants to ban religion. He wants to pull Korans out of houses. He wants to treat Moroccans differently, and that is what our rule of law, in which a judge plays a very important role, has said: Mr Wilders, you are simply punishable by what you want to fight. You're totally unbelievable! You're discrimination, Mr. Wilders!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u51	Through the chairman, we had just agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u52	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Through you: Mr Wilders is the embodiment of discrimination in the Netherlands. He hasn't done anything else in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u53	The colleagues at DENK have compared me to a cancer tumor before. I believe it was Mr Öztürk of your group who compared me with a cancer. I was a criminal then. Now I'm again the discrimination myself. You're all saying that. You do all of that. But I know from myself that all those people in the Netherlands stand up for their own people. They stand up for their own people. They have nothing against people of different colors or origins, but they do not allow themselves to believe that they discriminate. As a rule, Dutch people do not discriminate. Do you know who discriminates? I shall come back to that later in my text. That's the religion you adhere to. That's Islam. Islam is the religion that says: I make a distinction between Muslims and non-Muslims. Non-Muslims are even called "kafirs." Non-Muslims are discriminated against in every country where Islam is dominant. They're being disadvantaged. Violence is even used against them, whether you are an infidel, an apostate, a Christian or a Jew. Don't you dare live in an Islamic country, because you have it bad and you are discriminated against. So the real nature of discrimination is in your movement, not mine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u54	Finally. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u55	It is not Islam that was condemned 12 days ago by the court for discrimination. It's Mr. Wilders; there he is. Mr Wilders knows that well. Mr Wilders, who, as dictator of his own party, knows that he has hundreds of thousands of followers. Mr. Chairman. It is extremely regrettable that Mr Wilders is talking about our rule of law, but in the meantime something that is not right for him... We see people convicted by the criminal court more often. They say, "It's unfair. I've been treated differently. It's the other one. Why isn't the other one being prosecuted?" It's looking away. But Mr. Wilders is not just a convicted criminal. He's a very important man in the Netherlands for hundreds of thousands of people. I really blame him for throwing away our judges as corrupt, saying here in this house that our democratic rule of law is bankrupt. I actually want him to take those words back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u56	You know that leads to an opposite effect, so it's not smart interrupting to ask me. Mr. Chairman. Again, the colleague of DENK calls me "a criminal." You know, that reminds me: over the last few days, the entire editorial staff of Charlie Hebdo is all the cartoonists, all the editors because of the relocation of Muhammad's cartoons again threatened by Al-Qaeda. Unfortunately, I was also in that list. I was also threatened again by Al Qaeda, who called not only for Charlie Hebdo's people to be killed, but also Geert Wilders in the Netherlands. I have been properly informed about this by the Minister and the NCTV. Do you know what words Al-Qaeda used to make me a cup smaller? Exactly the words you use. They said that criminal Wilders must be caught. My message to both Al-Qaeda and DENK is: you will never get me out. I will always go on and fight the ideology you stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u57	I'm proud of the Netherlands. According to international lists, we have one of the best healthcare systems in the world, one of the best pension systems in the world. Despite the crisis, people and children are nowhere as happy as in the Netherlands. Yet Mr Wilders here speaks of "an intensely corrupt country." Previously, he used the words "banana republic" and "a fake parliament." Then my question to Mr Wilders is: if it is all so terrible here, which country would you prefer to live in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u58	In a Netherlands that is not corrupt. In a Netherlands where justice is independent. In a Netherlands where prosecutors are not on the same anti-discrimination committee as Akwasi, which is subsequently not prosecuted. That's corruption. That's boyfriend politics. That's banana republic. I don't want to live in a country like that. So I'd like us to make the judges independent. I would like us to make the prosecutors independent. I would like Mr Grapperhaus and Mr Akwasi to be treated the same as all other people, that there is no class justice in the Netherlands. Because all those judges of your party, they usually aren't interested in that. They match the people who agree with them, and the others don't. And I don't accept that. And many Dutch people do not accept that, who know what happened to Mr Grapperhaus. That's just class justice! Or what happened to Mr Akwasi: that is arbitrary, that is nepotism! A lot of Dutch people are quite right to be angry about that, and also about my trial. It's crazy, isn't it? What happened? That ministers have helped my case has been discussed in the Council of Ministers, that the judges have condemned me for violating the good name of Moroccans, that the judges have said, while it is not even in the law in my case, that Moroccans are a race, while everyone knows that it is not, while agents in my trial have rightly said, to the newspaper, the daily newspaper, that that declaration circus has been staged, that it has been staged. That's all corruption. That's all wrong. You're gonna get away with that, but if it's me, I'm not gonna get away with it. That has to change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u59	We've heard of Mr. Wilders. If a judge's ruling doesn't suit him, then he brings up class justice, he brings up the lack of independence in the prosecution and in the courts. This puts Mr Wilders himself at the root of our democratic rule of law with an independent judicial system. The fact is that there are hardly any cases in the Netherlands because of corruption. The fact is that the D.A. and the judge are doing their work independently in this country. The fact is that Mr Wilders has been given every opportunity to say his piece in court and that he has even been levelled by the judge on a number of points. He hasn't been punished for the cases where he did break the law. Mr Wilders should be thankful that he lives in a country where we have such an independent judicial system and where he can speak to the judge in that way. My question was: what country would Mr Wilders want to live in? He didn't answer that, but I do have a hunch. This summer we saw a wide laughing Geert Wilders with Victor Orbán on his Instagram; Victor Orbán the leader of a country in the European Union that is breaking down its democratic rule of law every day. Mr. Wilders, that's not the country I want to live in. I'm proud to be Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u60	There wasn't really a question in this speech. Indeed, I am very content with the good contacts with Mr Orbán who, unlike the Netherlands, closes his borders and ensures that his country does not become a half-Islamic country like this. So pay tribute to Mr Orbán. I'd rather be in the picture with him than with you, Mr. Jetten. Anyway, apart from that. I gave you the answer. I want to live in a country where we're all equal before the law and we're not. You know, all of this has become public, that there was a minister, the Prime Minister, who said, "I'm going to minimize that little party of yours." Luckily, he didn't do it. Do you remember Rutte saying that? We had a witness who said the Minister of Justice had told us that Wilders was just walking in on us. We've had officials helping the D.A. with the defences and giving tips to the state's attorney's office. That's what happened from the Department of Justice. They helped the state's attorney's office get me convicted and give my lawyer a reply. I can give you 100 examples. My case was discussed in the Council of Ministers. In what other criminal case does all that happen? That's a total banana republic. I am not even talking about a Minister of Justice who makes strict rules and who thinks that the whole of the Netherlands should abide by them or else a fine will be imposed on you whether you are a company or a citizen, but who does not take the one-and-a-half meter measure. He's gonna get away with it. I am not even talking about Mr Akwasi, who calls for violence, who says on De Dam that he will kick everyone, or rather Saint Nicholas or Black Pete on their faces. I'll use more quotes from him in a minute. He goes to a prosecutor who sits with his boyfriend on the board of an anti-discrimination agency and then he hears: you have an exemplary role, you are not being prosecuted. Shame on Mr. Jetten! You should be ashamed that you do not say that this is a disgrace and that we no longer live in the Netherlands under the rule of law. If you truly believed in the rule of law, you should stand up and say: shame what happened to Akwasi, shame what happened to Wilders, shame what Graperhaus did. You were silent three times. You're destroying the rule of law, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u61	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u62	We know in the Netherlands the separation of the three powers and an independent OM and justice system. That is why Mr Wilders can do his own story in court. Therefore, in a number of cases, the judge has also ruled in favour of him. What Mr Wilders does time and time again by accusing the prosecutors and judges is to fail the democratic rule of law in the Netherlands. He still hasn't answered my question, but the photo with Victor Orbán actually says enough. He calls the Netherlands an intensely corrupt country. He calls the Netherlands a banana republic and prefers to take a picture with someone who breaks down his own country stone by stone. In fact, Mr Wilders is the Orbán of the low countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u63	Thanks for that big compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u64	Just for the Acts, it was decimate the party. That didn't work. Mr Baudet was close, but you're back. It's so bad that Baudet himself isn't here right now. Let me say straight away that Mr Wilders was convicted by the judge. The judge has found that Mr. Wilders has broken the law in his judgments. I do not think that Mr Wilders is a criminal. I do think that Mr Wilders has had every opportunity in the process to highlight his side of the matter. Additional investigations have been launched in response to accusations made by Mr Wilders to the prosecution and the cabinet. I believe that it is appropriate in a rule of law that they have been extensively examined. In the end, it is the independent judge who makes a judgment, who in this case has held that Mr Wilders has not broken the law on a number of points, and on one point he has. Well, a judge is used to the fact that whoever gets convicted doesn't agree with that, but I don't think it would have happened in a really corrupt country. I think you've had plenty of room to put forward and discuss your side of the matter as well, and to make the nuances. That does not, of course, mean that you, as a convicted person, have to agree with the judge's ruling. But I would also like to apply the same principles to the following. You say: Moroccans have done more for the bad image of Moroccans than you have. You are right to mention examples in which Dutch people of Moroccan origin are overrepresented, for example in riots that we have seen in those neighbourhoods. There were also riots in other neighbourhoods where that did not apply, but well, the examples you mention are correct and that is bad. But that's what you call all Moroccans. Do you agree with me that there are Dutch people of Moroccan origin who simply comply with the law and make a completely positive contribution to this society? And do you know them, perhaps?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u65	Well, first things first. Look, that judge isn't independent. Our rule of law is bankrupt. I don't trust that independent judge anymore. Why? Because that judge has seen all that material that the whole of the Netherlands has been able to see in recent years. There were notes from the minister saying this has to be kept secret. It was discussed in the Council of Ministers. The D.A.'s office has been assisted in defense. You name it. You can't think of it as crazy or it all happened to me what hadn't happened to any of you. It happened to me. And if that judge had really been independent, he would have crossed that line. Then the judge would have said, "It's a political trial." Then he wouldn't even have gotten to the question of whether or not criminal offences have been committed. That's what the judge should have done, of course. But that judge didn't dare, because he lived in a climate where he couldn't. He thought maybe the cabinet would fall on it or that it would stand in the way of his career. But every judge who was independent would have said with these facts in a row, if he had been honest, that this is a political trial, I declare the Public Prosecutor's Office inadmissible, as it is called with an expensive word. He did not, and that is the independent case law, even against the leader of the opposition in the Netherlands... Imagine that. In which countries is it normal for the leader of the opposition to be told by the Prime Minister: I'm going to decimate your party. The Minister of Justice says about him: he's in our way. Officials have heard this and the notary has said that Mr Opstelten said so. Officials have been interfering with my trial, helping the state's attorney's office. Mr President, this is too terrible for words, isn't it? I don't know what kind of banana republic that is, do I? But it happened here in the Netherlands. And I'm also sorry you didn't record it for me. You should have said: how this went is just politics, regardless of what Mr Wilders said, regardless of whether you agree with it or not, regardless of whether I think it is a criminal offence or not. You should have said: my party, the VVD, has treated Mr Wilders here as a disgrace. That's what you should have done. You have abandoned me, as the whole Chamber has abandoned me, except for Mr Baudet. I blame you for that. I blame you for that, but also for the rule of law. 'Cause what happened couldn't. And now your second question. There was a second question, Mr President. That was perhaps the first question, but I wanted to respond to the first. Of course, there are Moroccans who don't break the law. I will come back to that later in my text. But the fact remains that Moroccans are criminal six times more often, commit a crime six times more often, that Moroccans are in prison 12 times more often, and I can mention a lot of other statistics. That over-representation knows no bounds. I said here last year: the poison of Moroccan terror is unfortunately in the fibers of our society. And we have to do something about that. Of course that's not about all Moroccans. That's what I've said before. But we have to name it. And then someone in this context asks the question: do you want more or less Moroccans? Millions of Dutch people would give the answer: yes. And before that, to take a politician, the leader of the opposition, with a political game of the VVD, to trial and get convicted... Isn't that the end of the rule of law? The debate on this belongs here, in the Lower House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u66	Mr Wilders is, of course, in his own right, and I understand that. Then he starts blaming; that happens all the time. I am completely convinced that you are convinced of your own right and that no judge is going to do anything about it. But it's not for me to judge it when it's under the judge. Fortunately, we live in a rule of law and all the defences, all the arguments you have put forward, all the requests for information, all the things you and your lawyers have brought in, have been judged by the judge. An independent judge cannot allow himself to be held hostage to come to a different outcome than he would have otherwise come to because otherwise you will say he is corrupt. An independent judge has to do it himself. I can quite legally imagine that this judgment has been handed down, purely legal, because that is what a judge has to do. The consequences for the political side of the case are not on the judge. They should not play any part in that either, and I do not think they have played any part in that either. You are right about the over-representation and the naming of the problems. But those problems you're naming...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u67	Mr Wilders appointed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u68	Sorry. Mr Wilders does mention these problems in a way that creates coherence. The question is, of course, not only whether there is an over-representation, but also whether it is because of this: is it true that people are more common in those rows because they are Moroccan? And another question, before you use the whole denominator "Moroccans" and say "there must be less": is it 6% more frequent than other groups, or is it the majority of Dutch people of Moroccan origin? Then you can apply nuances, but then you start to have a point. I just think you should name problems. If Dutch people with a Moroccan background in a neighborhood make things unsafe, you just have to say so. That's just scum; tough work, rule of law. Breaking the law? Judge whoever it is. If it isn't, if it isn't the whole group, you throw in something of insinuation, a side-taste that is more than just the facts and that also leads people who do their best to be watched at the actions of other people who happen to have ancestors in the same country, but who themselves haven't gone wrong. They're not responsible for those fellow human beings either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u69	What the hell are you living in, Mr. Dijkhoff? Where are you from, from which planet? Have you ever looked at Searched? Just a very simple question: have you ever seen that program, Search Requested? I mean, it could've been almost Sendtime Political Parties of the PVV. Have you ever looked at that? It's just that maybe one or two people don't rob people at an ATM, beat the crap out of old people at home and rob them. Only Moroccans. Go check out the street, check out the beach. Of course there are Dutch who commit criminal acts and of course there are others other than Moroccans who have criminal behavior, but those Moroccans are overrepresented in crime. You see it everywhere. Why don't you walk through the city here in The Hague on a sale night? Walk into the HEMA. Walk here about the Square and do so in all other big cities of the Netherlands. You will see: what I say is not exaggerated. People experience that every time. Surely it will not be possible for a politician who, at an election meeting, asks a question where 43% of the Dutch people, who are 7 or 8 million people, seem to agree, because of a political game of your party and your former minister, I will not charge you, but I will bring your party and your minister to justice in a political trial? That's a shame, isn't it? Where were you, where were you all when I was standing there? You should have stood up for me! I'm telling you, I would have taken it all for you if it had happened to you. And not for what you said or did, but above all for the filthyness of the political process. I expected support from my colleagues. You didn't do that, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u70	I find this an uncomfortable moment. Mr Wilders speaks very categorically about Moroccan terror, even poison, and that at a time when we are in the chair of someone who is of Moroccan origin, who serves our country, who serves this institution. To talk so categorically about an entire group, is precisely the problem. You are not putting your finger on the sore spot, but you are shaving everyone along the same lines, including people who are sitting here in this room. I find it painful and I'm just going to say it out loud once: you really shouldn't do this, you shouldn't do this. You can name problems. You may lay the finger at the pain. But not like this, not like this, not right now and not in this context. Once again about your qualifications: 'Dictatorship', 'Banana Republic'. When I hear it, I honestly think of Russia, where an opposition leader is poisoned and must be taken away by Germany by plane and find a safe place in another country. But I don't think about the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u71	I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u72	You speak in a way about the Netherlands that does not do justice to what it is, to who we are. You have every freedom here to say what you want. You're talking about a fake parliament. You have every freedom to defend yourself in front of a judge. You have every right to appeal and to place the judgment on the court's notice. You're criticizing the judge. You criticize the minister and the cabinet, the executive, while they provide your own security. You weren't protected in a dictatorship. There's no one who's ever criticized your security. There is no one who does not criticize the fact that you are being threatened, who has no problem with that. Everyone in this house hates what you're doing. If we had lived in a dictatorship, if we had lived in a banana republic, you would not have been here in freedom and you would not have been protected by the minister you are now criticizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u73	I haven't been a free man for 16 years, so I don't know where Mr Segers gets that crap. I shall put it aside for a moment, because it is too disgusting for what you are saying. But I tell you one thing: it's easy for you to talk, it's easy for you to talk. You come running out of your bench and say for a moment: it's all nice and nice what you do. But I've been there for six years. I've had six years, when I should have done my job here... I was elected by 1.5 million people. You can only dream of that. 1.5 million people voted for me. They expect me to sit here in the Chamber and do my job here, that I deal with laws here, that I make proposals, and that I even think that the Prime Minister agrees with the government. That's my job as a Member of Parliament. For six years, I've often spent more time in court and at the courthouse, in that secure bunker at Schiphol, where normally only the criminals are in front of MH17 and the mocromafia, than here. That's where Geert Wilders was. The day before the mocromafia was there and the next day the suspects were in front of MH17 at least, they weren't there. In between, the leader of the opposition was in the Netherlands. How does that sound, Mr Segers? Doesn't that sound a little like Russia that I'm sitting in between as a parliamentarians who just asked a question about Moroccans? And you too should be ashamed that you didn't stand up for me. You sit here and lecture me, but I will tell you that if you had done what happened to me, you would not have been there in a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u74	Everyone must be aware of the words he is doing and the actions he is doing. This applies to Mr Wilders, and to me. If I break the law, I'm gonna have to stand there and defend it, too. The question was if you had broken the law. There's only one person who can judge that, and that's the judge. You can appeal again and you can go to the Supreme Court again. If you want, you can go to Strasbourg again. That's the freedom you have. But again. You have the freedom to say what you want. You criticize a country and talk about a dictatorship and compare it with Russia, where an opposition leader is poisoned and you are protected here. Isn't it the same government, the same rule of law that gives you the freedom, that gives you the security, that gives you the protection you are entitled to? I'll defend that to the last breath. But that's the same rule of law, isn't it? Then you can't talk about a dictatorship, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u75	I was legally poisoned, and you helped with that. For you have not risen up to say: this is a political process; that is not right. I've been there for six years. That's my point. I never had to be there. I never had to be there. You just mentioned the rule of law. Where were you when Mr. Grapperhaus broke the law and when Mr. Grapperhaus said, "I give people a fine," "I give companies a fine of up to €10,000," "I write fines of €300 to anyone on the street who gets even 30 centimeters too close"? When Mr Grapperhaus then apologized, you said: it's fine, it's fine. You have not supported a motion of censure or anything. And where were you with Mr Akwasi? Mr Akwasi calls for Saint Nicholas to be executed and for him to kick Black Pete in the face when he encounters him, but he just leaves as a free man. That's unfair, isn't it? I've asked a question, and I've been in court for six years. And where was Mr Segers? Mr Segers wasn't there. I don't know what you were doing, but you didn't say anything about it. You dropped a colleague, the leader of the opposition. You let the minister, who was your boyfriend, of the coalition you're in, get away with a lame excuse. And I didn't hear about Mr Akwasi. Ú has a lack of backbone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u76	Finally, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u77	I'm gonna ask you one more time. The 'terrible rule of law', the 'terrible dictatorship' and all the terrible names that Mr Wilders now uses for our country, is the same rule of law that gives him security and protects him. I hate that you're being threatened. I think it is appalling what you have to say, and it is grave injustice that there is a national and international threat in your direction. I will always defend your security and your freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u78	You don't; you don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u79	I'll do that; I'll do that. You are entitled to that, and until your last breath you may say what you wish to say until you break the law. Then I'm not the one who has to judge; that's the judge. But one more time: the rule of law that you find so appalling is the same rule of law with which you discuss protection. That is the same rule of law that gives you security and does everything you can to let you speak and to let you say what you want to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u80	That's not a rule of law. That's making sure I don't get shot. Without DKDB and without police, I'd be shot tonight, Mr Segers. You can't imagine that, but before I get home, I have three bullets in my back. That's what happens. To use that now for a political game... It's too dirty for words what you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u81	Mr Wilders always talks about Moroccans in his speech. The fact is that many Dutch live here of Moroccan descent. They're here in the Chamber, they're mayors of big cities, and they're President of the Chamber. And yes, there are young people who cross the line. There is no one in this Parliament who says nothing about that has to happen. If criminal Dutch-Moroccan young people break the law, they must be dealt with. Then our young people must be dealt with, because they are Dutch young people. They must be punished. But Mr Wilders is talking about "the wrong lists." There are other wrong lists, too. Namely: having no chance of an internship, being rejected for a job, not being allowed to enter the discotheque and fighting in Dutch society while you get less chance because there are stigmas and prejudices that apply not to you personally but to another group. Will Mr Wilders stand up for these young people, who are also our young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u82	I am at first just standing up for the Dutchman who is suffering from the Moroccan problem. Then the CDA can get away with discrimination, exclusion, internships and I know it all for things, but that's not my point. What we always do in the Netherlands: we have a problem; then we all come up with little things around it and then it becomes the theme. I said that in the Netherlands we have a big, huge problem with Moroccans, who are overrepresented everywhere. That is the problem of the Netherlands. You say that they need to be tackled, but that is the problem: they are not being addressed. Did you see it in the Painting District? Did you see it in Kanaleneiland? The police get kicked with stones, they burn cars and they get away with it. The police are pulling out. The police may be picking up two or three. Even the people they've picked up are deeply annoyed by the police themselves the day after or the same day outside. While the officer is still doing the records of the arrest, they're already outside. So these Moroccans are getting away with it. That is why it happens every time: because we do not punish them in the Netherlands. We don't. We're not going after them. They're getting away with it. That's the problem, and that has nothing to do with internships.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u83	Mr Wilders is making a pretty big mistake anyway, because they can only end up in a state of crime because they are being dealt with. The fact that they score high in certain forms of crime is therefore because they are being tackled. Still, you're talking about young people who actually run into barriers because they're discriminated against and because the person who offers the internship thinks, "I've heard Wilders in the Chamber so many times say that we have a Moroccan problem; I don't want to give that Moroccan an internship." Then, as a representative of the Dutch Parliament, Mr Wilders has the duty to stand up for young people who do not get opportunities because they are stigmatized. Our young people, who want to do their stinking best, and to say: I do not want that internship discrimination, I do not want that discrimination in a discotheque, and I do not want that discrimination in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u84	Surely it cannot be that you, where we are having a discussion about the Moroccan problem, for which I have been condemned in a political trial, brings back to an internship? Please also consider your own credibility. No one in this house is for discrimination. I also said in the debate on discrimination: if this happens, I am, of course, against discrimination. But there is no major problem of discrimination in the Netherlands. Once again, I have just mentioned the figures, in response to Mr Azarkan or another. Last year, 2019, 123 reports of discrimination were made at the Public Prosecutor's Office. That's almost nothing. Of course, that's 123 too many, but that's nothing. So don't come to me that we have a problem with Moroccan scumbags, criminals, who make things unsafe here and that this is about an internship problem. You're making a complete fool of yourself with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u85	I see you standing, Mr. Azarkan. You've just been extensively interrupted. Mr Wilders spoke for about 2.5 minutes and responded to interruptions for almost 40 minutes. I should therefore like to ask Mr Wilders to continue his speech. Then you will have the opportunity to interrupt. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u86	Okay, Mr. Chairman. So I told you, if you don't do what the elite want, like I do, the brave blockers, the peasants, you're gonna get the world, the army and the judges on you. But if you belong to the left-liberal elite, then everything's fine. If you are from the Labour Party, you can also say everything about Moroccans: that they have an ethnic monopoly on nuisance, that they must be humiliated. And if you are Minister of Justice, you may impose a one-and-a-half-meter dictatorship on the people, but you yourself have no regard for it. Right, Mr. Grapperhaus? I have this in my text, but unfortunately I don't like it. Right, Mr. Grapperhaus? Put some money into the Red Cross' account, say "sorry" a few times for the camera and Kees is done. And if you're against Black Piet, if your name is Akwasi, if you call yourself brutal violence and murder and if you want to commit an attack and execute Santa Claus, then you're called a word artist by Jesse Clover of violent links, then you get beaten by the Public Prosecutor's Office and then the Public Prosecutor says you have an exemplary function. Then your case will be dismissed. And do you know why? Because the prosecutor who decided not to prosecute Akwasi turns out to be an activist himself who until recently worked with a Kick Out Black Piet activist, a boyfriend of Akwasi in the board of the Meldpunt Discrimination Amsterdam. They worked together for years, and that's why Akwasi wasn't prosecuted. And yes, indeed, this is what corruption looks like. A politician from the PVV who asks a question about Moroccans is in court for six years and is sentenced to insult, but an anti-Black Piet activist who calls for murder, violence and execution is left alone and beaten by the prosecution, working with one of his friends. The Public Prosecutor's Office is a breeding ground of left-wing activists and the judiciary washes all that corruption white with one stroke of pens. It looks like a conspiracy that a crime series wouldn't look bad. Lady Justitia isn't blind, she's doing favoritism. The arbitrariness prevails. I'm telling you all, people aren't gonna stand for this anymore. They're resisting, and that resistance is gonna get more and more massive. I also promise one thing to all those PVV-hating judges, prosecutors, mayors, ministers and all those justice officials who helped me in my conviction: you'll never get me small, ever. I'm stronger than all of you put together. I'm on Al-Qaeda's and Taliban's death records. I did get two fatwas on me from a Pakistani cleric. And unfortunately there are thousands of Muslims at home and abroad who have threatened me with death. And yes, I've lived for 16 years, and even before the judge convicted me, as a half-con in a safe house. But I'm still standing here. I'm standing here with my head held high and with more energy than ever. I'll never give up. I will always fight against your randomness, against your filthy political games. I will always fight for the Netherlands, for our freedom and security and therefore against Islamisation and, yes, against the Moroccanisation of our country. I'm not alone; make no mistake. I do this together with all those great PVV people here in the House of Representatives and the rest of this country, but also with millions of Dutch people who are clean enough of you and will never give up. Finally, on this subject, I would like to say that any attack against us will only make us stronger, stronger and stronger. And you will see all that next March.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u87	I can't imagine what it's like to be protected for 16 years, to have 16 years of fear of your being killed, to hear a fatwa being pronounced on you or threatened by Al-Qaeda. But I can see that Mr Wilders is having a hard time with that. I find the direction he is taking in this Parliament rather painful, namely that he is putting the whole world and the whole of the Netherlands away as his enemy. In 2010, Mr Wilders was acquitted. The judge said 'what you say is derogatory and rude' and Mr Wilders said 'I do so on purpose; it must be possible'. But it was allowed; the judge felt that Mr Wilders had that freedom. Then he said, "This is a victory." He had compliments to the judge and said: this is a victory for the freedom to say what I want. My question to Mr Wilders is: were those judges also corrupt in 2010? Was there also a bankruptcy of the Netherlands at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u88	Oh, yeah. One judge for sure. I was acquitted at the time, but you forgot to tell half the story. By the way, it wasn't a statement I made that I was prosecuted for, but a movie, a short documentary called Fitna that I had made. I'd advise everyone to take a good look at that again. What happened there? That's not what you're saying, but it shows that it was already corrupt back then. There it turned out that a judge tried to influence my unfortunately deceased former colleague Hans Jansen, who was a witness for me, during dinner. I won't mention his name here. By the way, it was a CDA judge. He was a judge of the CDA; the man was a member of the CDA. That CDA judge tried to influence my witnesses at dinner before Mr. Jansen was heard as a witness. That was a court judge who decided I had to be prosecuted anyway. Luckily, we managed to get that up. Fortunately, together with the media and my then lawyer, Bram Moszkowicz, we got that in the interview of that gentleman. He also filed his resignation. He's gone. Of course, there was no other way to acquit me at the time. But that corruption was in the deepest fibers of the first Wilders trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u89	Mr Wilders actually thought so at the time, and he still thinks so. But he's still going into cassation. He again presents his case and trusts that he will be heard honestly. If that verdict is to his disadvantage again, are they still corrupt judges? If that verdict is in his favor, is it right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u90	What has happened here so far is not being brushed away by these judges. Of course I'm going all the way. I'm going home in the DKDB's cars tonight, too. I'd rather go to my own house. I'm going back to the safe house because I don't have a choice. I'll do that. I have to. I gotta go. The same applies to this ruling. It's a terrible statement, but of course I use all the means I have to make sure it's undone. But whatever the verdict will be, what happened here will not be washed away. In the first trial, a judge tried to influence a witness. A CDA judge. In the second trial, the entire VVD and all those officials and ministers have then tried to influence the Public Prosecutor's Office, as you know. Of course I won't brush that away, no matter what the outcome. I'm telling you, get on it. All in all, that's ten years of trials for someone who didn't do anything that wasn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u91	Finally, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u92	Yeah, finally. I find it unbelievable and I really do not think it is possible for Mr Wilders to shop very selectively. He's acting like our rule of law is some kind of FEBO facility in Venlo, where you go and get what you like. In the case of Mr Wilders, this is often the victim. I realize this is a bit of a bad joke under these circumstances, but I really have a problem with that. I'm having trouble finding someone standing here who's actually calling on his followers to resist. He just did that again and he did so when we had a lot of trouble with azc's. I find it difficult for someone to stand here who has sworn allegiance to our Constitution and our democratic rule of law, while he is self-defeating. I find that painful, and I really think Wilders should stop doing that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u93	I'd say get used to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u94	Mr Jetten and then Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u95	Mr Wilders is talking about double standards in our legal system. But if anyone in this Chamber is using double standards, he is. In Rotterdam, for example, when people are honking the streets, waving flags and disrupting traffic, Mr Wilders talks about honking horns that have to go back to their own country. But when block frying or protesting members of Farmers Defence Force honking down the street, waving flags, disrupting traffic, threatening agents, threatening a minister with death and threatening MPs with death, Mr Wilders stands on top of a tractor to applaud and encourage that intimidation. Double standards, Mr. Wilders, those are yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u96	Of course, that's also nice. I also see that you have that from a note... It's a good thing your colleague wrote that down for you. Apparently, it's not from your head. Still, it doesn't add up. It's not true at all. You're suggesting that I'm okay with farmers or other people threatening people with death. I might get 100 a day or a week. If anyone knows what death threats are and what they're doing... Please, you may go very far in politics, but don't rub at me that I'd be okay with it. I saw it with the Group chairman of GroenLinks. Whatever you think of it, it's not right. No one here, whether it's Jesse Klaver, Klaas Dijkhoff or Geert Wilders, can be threatened by anyone at any time. I don't have double standards. I'm just as sorry, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u97	That's all equally bad, but it's not just about those death threats. It's also about what crap you're causing in public space. The point is that your agents are taking away the work you're blocking ambulances on the road, in short, that you're intimidating people and disrupting our society. Whether they are young people who do so, in a Hague or a Utrecht district, or block frying on a highway, or farmers on the Malieveld who do not follow the rules of decent demonstration: the same rules must apply to everyone. Mr Wilders was just talking about arbitrariness, but the only one in this Chamber who applies arbitrariness is Mr Wilders, because in this country of his you can only break the law if you agree with the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u98	No, it's the other way around. That's exactly the point in my story. If you have the opinion of you, of the VVD or of the CDA, it's a big cabal, so say of the coalition, of the political center or whatever you call it. Then it's okay. As you can see, Mr Grapperhaus is getting away with it, while he has broken his own law. You were quiet, too. You were clapping too. You didn't say, "The minister has to go." You were fine with it. That Akwasi, who has a boyfriend on the board of Amsterdam, allows him to deal with that prosecutor, who suddenly doesn't prosecute him: that's class justice as well. I don't hear about that either. So my point is that if you agree with the cabinet, if you are in the cabinet, like Minister Grapperhaus, or if you do something about discrimination, like Akwasi, with a boyfriend as a prosecutor. Then it's okay. Then the elite says, "Fine, go ahead." But if you think otherwise, if you want to stand up for your own culture as a blockfries, you will be required to take DNA from you. Luckily that was undone, I read yesterday. But you need to be DNAd. If you want to stand up for your own business as a farmer, the army will be deployed here in The Hague. Then the army is everywhere and we don't even get out of the House of Representatives anymore. It doesn't matter what happens when the law is broken. You'll hear about that, too. But that's what happens. The dishonesty is that it's all right if you belong to the club of D66 and the VVD. But if you have a separate opinion, you're gonna get caught. You're gonna get caught legally. Then the army will be deployed. Then you have to give up your DNA. You'll be criminalized. That is what you do: you criminalize your political opponents. And that's something that occurs in a third world dictatorship, in a banana republic. That should not happen in a country like the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u99	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u100	Finally. This entire House of Representatives, from left to right, stands in this country for freedom of demonstration, for freedom of expression. The whole Chamber supports Mr Wilders being heavily protected because his life is threatened. But this entire House of Representatives also asks that if you break the law in this country, you be treated equally. No double standards. Mr Wilders does. Because if people demonstrate against Black Pete or racism, it's all scum and Moroccan poison. If you intimidate agents and threaten MPs and ministers because you're an angry farmer or a blockfries, then it's got to be possible. The double morale belongs to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u101	But may I ask: where were you with Mr Grapperhaus? Now you're walking back to your bench; I get it, annoying question. Mr. Grapperhaus broke the law with those five feet. The whole of the Netherlands has been able to see it. If you are so for equal monks, equal hoods, why didn't you demand that he resign or be prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor? Why were you quiet then? Why didn't you say anything there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u102	We've been for hours...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u103	Yes, finally, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u104	We've been going on for hours, I know, but you didn't jump to any conclusions there. You didn't. What was the end of the debate? That Mr. Grapperhaus stayed in his seat and that he received zero prosecution or zero fines from the Public Prosecutor's Office. So stop talking to me and lecture me about not getting even.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u105	Finally, Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u106	We spent hours in this Chamber debating that incident at Mr Grapperhaus' wedding, so Mr Wilders cannot say here that we all remained silent at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u107	Now I understand he sat down quickly, because he just doesn't have an answer. D66 has no answer. Do you know, Mr. Jetten, through you, Madam President-in-Office, that a lot of people in the Netherlands are so angry about that? I get emails from people, and you might get them yourself, who say: my children were 1.20 meters apart, then a boa came to measure by one millimeter and said that my children were 30 centimeters too close together, and therefore got a fine of €100, €200, €300 each. People themselves, companies that had their terraces a little too close together in the catering industry, were fined up to €10,000. Ordinary, normal people who aren't in "K" or with "D66," they just get a ticket if they break the rules. What about Secretary Grapperhaus? Yeah, we've been debating this for hours, but you were quiet. You kept your mouth shut. You did not say that it should be fined. And that's the inequality. And if you do not give it to me, you will realize that many Dutch people are getting very angry about it and that you are undermining the rule of law, not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u108	I wanted to post a support interruption. It was just about the scandalous political trial against Mr Wilders, and he is right to point out that there has been an extremely hypocritical reaction here in the Chamber. I would like to remind you that this is absolutely not the case with our party and our group. We have always supported Mr Wilders in this and I want to do so again. I want to make a point, too, and passerby. Mr Dijkhoff, who is sitting behind me, has once again recited the familiar slogan: Mr Baudet is not here. I've been here since the beginning. Maybe at that particular moment I had just gone for a minute to get a paper, but then I was there again. I just checked the lists. Over the past three and a half years, I have participated in five times as many debates every year as Klaas, who was sleeping here when Corona came to sleep while his ministers corrupted the rule of law. "Klaas Wintersleep" has no right to speak of me. We are the only group to support an opposition leader, not as far as I am concerned, but as one of the opposition leaders who is wrongly politically persecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u109	Apart from that last sentence, since I am of course the leader of the opposition, I am very grateful to Mr Baudet and his group. He's right. He's always supported that. I fear that we are the only two groups in this Chamber that still have some sense of the rule of law in their fibers. Thank you for your support. The point is that next year we will have enough seats to convince or overrule the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u110	Mr Wilders has done it again: he has been talking about Mr Wilders for over an hour and a half. It was a little too much for Mr Baudet, I think, because he had to say that he was also important and that Mr Baudet should be the main subject. But the real issue that needs to be addressed is racism, and Mr Wilders denies that it is going on. In the Netherlands you are invited to a job interview if you have a criminal record rather than if you have an Arabic sounding surname. A third of all brokers in the Netherlands are willing to discriminate. If you're in school and you're looking for an internship, you're gonna have to apply up to four or five times. Those are the problems we're dealing with. If Mr Wilders says, 'I will continue to seek the connection, no matter how hard he opposes being really against racism and discrimination, is he prepared to fight with me to tackle these issues?'
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u111	Mr President, the reality. Let me put a reality to that. I have already said in the debate on racism that if there is discrimination, the PVV is always on the side of those who are discriminated against, so that cannot be news. Only, I deny it's the size you pretend it has. Again, 123 cases that end up in the D.A.'s office. But now the answer to the question of GroenLinks' colleague. Madam President, may I read out a letter on real discrimination? I will not mention the name of the lady, I will read a few passages from it, otherwise it will take a long time to discuss the discrimination that Dutch people are dealing with. Dear Mr. Wilders, yesterday in the Youth Journal an item on discrimination and racism. My son was threatened by a Moroccan classmate. He said cancer-this, cancer-that. He had to, and he did... My son had no idea, but felt so threatened that he apologized on his knees. Afterwards he wanted to ride off, but was stopped again and had to kiss the feet of this Moroccan boy. That's what he did. Today my son cycled home with a friend and a girl shouts from a distance: "You have to keep your cancer mouth." A Moroccan boy comes out of the house and yells, "Cancer dude, I want to fight you." Mr. Wilders, my daughter is regularly called "cancer whore" by Moroccans. This is what Moroccan boys do. I have such a stack of e-mails that go on about this, and I don't want to deny that what you're saying happens, but talk about this. I'll never hear about this. There is almost no Dutchman in this country, unfortunately, who does not know himself, or people who have this kind of experience with Moroccans and Dutch. We can talk about the internships sometime, but here's my point. My point is that Moroccans in the Netherlands, Madam President, once again, are not all Moroccans, but that Moroccans in the Netherlands are heavily overrepresented in all these statistics and that this is what people are experiencing. The thugs that make their daughters kiss their shoes, that make their sons kiss their shoes, that make their daughters "cancer whore." Every day on the street. It's a terrible thing. Speak up on that. Speak up on that, Mr. van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u112	The Dutch call "Moroccans" is already discriminatory within themselves. You put people away like, "You're not part of this society." But what Mr Wilders is constantly doing is going back to other areas. I ask very simple questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u113	I gave you an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u114	There is racism and discrimination in the Netherlands. You say that you are against it, but you do not want to oppose it. Mr. Wilders, I think the truth is that you are not at all against racism and discrimination. In fact, your whole speech here today is filled with racist expressions. And that's allowed here in parliament, but it's disgusting. And it does something to the society we live in. It does something to all those young people who live in this country and try to build a life, who try to fight against institutional racism for a good future. All I ask of you is: can we perhaps work together to defeat institutional racism? And I still can't get a clear answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u115	One, the PVV, the undersigned and all those one and a half million people who voted for us are not racists. Two, they're the victims of racism. They are the victims of discrimination. I just mentioned all the television program Search Requested. One constant in that is that they never catch each other; they always catch the other. Those criminals never catch... A Moroccan criminal never grabs a Moroccan family to break in, but always grabs the older or younger Dutchman. The discrimination is on that side. And natúúr, if it is on this side, it must also be dealt with. And if that doesn't happen, I'm in favour of doing it, too. But that's not very common. I just mentioned the numbers. What happens is daily terror and crime against our own people. And if you look away from that, it says more about you than it does about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u116	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u117	Mr Wilders simply refuses to call racism a problem and to tackle it. That's a problem in itself. And one more thing. It is becoming almost normal, after sixteen years, or now ten years for me to stand here with Mr Wilders in this Parliament. Every time, sometimes in parliament, he passes on to justice, but today he actually carries the whole of the rule of law to the garbage dump. It's corrupt, we can't trust it, and we're resisting it. Those are dangerous statements, Mr. Wilders. What do you say to all the people who come to court, are convicted and perhaps disagree with the verdict? What does this material mean? Does that mean we don't have to care? Does that mean we don't have to listen to a judge anymore? Does it mean that we can play our own judge in this country? We have judges in this country and so far you have always supported justice and democracy. No matter how much we disagree, we agree with this: we respect democracy and the rule of law. But today you say: the rule of law, it no longer exists for me. With this, you are taking a new step on your own radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u118	No, I'm not. A, I'm not taking another step. B, I'm not radicalizing. Again, if your name is Jesse Klaver, you get away with it. I wouldn't be surprised if you were on a board of Kick Out Black Pete or whatever. You are on that side of the politically correct political spectrum. You interrupted me last time and said: yes, but, Mr Wilders, Akwasi is a word artist. It was Jesse Klaver who said, "Akwasi is a word artist." He kicks people in the face and says that Saint Nicholas must be executed. I've seen tweeting and he puts $500 on the head of Santa Claus and Black Piet for whoever kills them. That's what you call a word artist! Think of yourself, hypocrite.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u119	Mr Klaver for a brief response and I suggest that you proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u120	I won't go into all the swear cannonades, but I made another point. So far, Mr Wilders has always been behind the rule of law. He has always said: we are political, I am campaigning within the rule of law and within democracy. Now if you're giving up on all those judges and on the rule of law and saying that the D.A. is wrong, that the Justice Department is wrong and that all judges are corrupt, what does that mean? Does that mean that people in this country no longer have to listen to judgments from judges? What you are saying is that one and a half million people voted for you, but what are they supposed to take over from this, what is the message? That they shouldn't accept it anymore when a judge makes a ruling? That the Justice Department can't be trusted? That the D.A. is corrupt? Mr. Wilders, this is going to radicalize you further into your ideas, and that is dangerous. We fight each other with words, sometimes very fine words, sometimes very vile, sometimes just sharp, but always within the rule of law and within democracy. Today, you're taking a step out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u121	The rule of law is completely bankrupt, because, once again, I cannot repeat enough, people who are on Mr Klaver's side, whom he calls, once again, a word artist, people who are on his side can say everything and not be prosecuted. If you're in "K" and you're called "Grapperhaus," you can break the law and you won't be prosecuted. But if your name is Geert Wilders, if you're a blockfries, if you're a farmer who wants to demonstrate, you get the crowd after you. That's wrong, a lawyer on law enforcement. Even the cabinet doesn't! Do you remember how the judges didn't give so many people a residence permit? Your party has ensured that, with all of us, general pardons, judgments of judges who told thousands of asylum seekers that they should not work here anymore and not be welcome, could be ignored. Your party and the cabinet said with a general's pardon: you know what, forget that legal statement, you can stay anyway. Selective shopping, you're the biggest hypocrite in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u122	Nothing but love. This is the kind of shit I can't do. But let's make it very concrete. There is a new nitrogen policy coming up and it may just be that farmers want to demonstrate and block things. And that the police are going to say: we do not want to, because that is dangerous for public order. This means that streets are closed and a call is made: do not do this. Are you saying that the call should just be ignored if this is said by the police? Is your plea here that these farmers do not have to care? Is your plea that people who want to stop protesters should just do that, even though it is said "don't do that," that you no longer have to follow directions from the police? What exactly are you saying here? Very precise please, because we've heard that dog whistle of yours enough times. Now I want to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u123	I say that the Netherlands no longer has the rule of law. If you stick to the rules and ideas of the left, you can do anything and otherwise you can't. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u124	No, this is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u125	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u126	I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u127	Mr Klaver, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u128	Mr President, this is too easy!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u129	It's the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u130	A whole tirade about what's wrong, that we can't trust the police, not justice, not the prosecutor and the judiciary. And now it comes down to keeping our country safe. They must make it possible to demonstrate and intervene if it is not possible, for example as a life-threatening weapon! Freeways are blocked. That leads to life-threatening situations. I ask Mr Wilders, because these protesters from Farmers Defence Force are listening to him. Next time the police come up with the clue not to block a highway, not to come to the Malieveld, not to drive tractors to the Binnenhof, will you tell Farmers Defence Force: listen to those calls? Or do you say ignore them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u131	I'm not saying anything to Farmer's Defence Force. I will not be forced into this case, no matter how often Mr. van GroenLinks stands here. I say that the Netherlands is no longer a rule of law, because the decision whether you come to court depends on whether you have your ideas or whether you have other ideas, and that is what I stand for. That has to change, and we're not gonna change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u132	Mr President, I really will conclude. This dog whistle is actually inciting people to misbehavior, urging them not to listen to judges or the police or to the D.A.'s office. And now I'm gonna ask you the question, and you're not gonna go through with it. That says a lot about you, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u133	Mr. Chairman. I gave the answer. I am going through 100%, because I say that the rule of law is bankrupt in the Netherlands, and GroenLinks' colleague is not responding to that again. If you're called Grapperhaus, you can break the law. I didn't hear you say here that Grapperhaus should leave. I didn't hear you say that! Double morale! Talk about things when it comes to Akwasi. Where are you with Akwasi? Why don't you tell Akwasi that this man needs to be prosecuted? I didn't hear you. You're up to your capillaries in those left-wing driving anti-discrimination. You probably think it's great that Akwasi, who you called a word artist, isn't being prosecuted. So don't come to me with casusism if you look the other way in every case where it's left-wing scum, left-wing scum that violates the law! Go look in the mirror and then give an honest answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u134	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In a month, Prime Minister Rutte will be Prime Minister of the Netherlands. This is the time to take stock of it. In those ten years, the Netherlands has become an almost unrecognizable country. Rutte gave it all away. Our security in our streets and neighbourhoods, our hard-earned money to everything and everyone abroad, our own culture and traditions, our national sovereignty and identity: everything, but also everything that is dear to us, has been given away. We are governed by technocrats with a fondness for self-hatred, multiculpture, open borders and climate madness, who have no idea what worries and problems ordinary people have in the country. Many people have lost their grip on their lives and feel abandoned, betrayed, silenced. Their voice is not heard. They often think that voices no longer make sense, because they are not listened to, nothing changes, Rutte does what he wants. As in 2017, when the whole political trickbox was deployed to exclude the party that 1.5 million people voted for. Mr. Chairman. Rutte has brought us from one crisis to another. He's also been taking more and more money out of our wallet for the past ten years. VAT increased, the duration of WW was reduced, the energy tax went up, the own risk went through the roof, the mortgage interest deduction was reduced, the rents rose sharply and the pensioners were almost always screwed, even today. People who are unlucky enough to lose their jobs and their income have often been unable to build up a reserve because of that ten-year Rutte policy. The number of households with debt increases to about 2 million households next year. That's a quarter of all households. The Prime Minister has put those people up for every crisis. Even now, they're not getting anything. A purchasing power of less than 1%, some crumbs. If you bring in the local burden, it's a big fat min. And if you lost your job, you certainly don't know how to support your family. And those old people are getting caught hard in their wallets, too. That's the Netherlands. But abroad there is little reason to complain. There's the party. For the last ten years, they were the only ones who weren't at Rutte's, but were cherished and pampered. Again. Look, for example, at the European summit this summer. On behalf of the Netherlands, Rutte signed a total package of EUR 1,800 billion, contributions to Brussels and gifts to South European countries, of which EUR 100 billion are Dutch taxpayers' money, because we are at 6% of the 1,800. That's $11,000. $11,000. .................................................................................................................................. Give it away. Mr. Chairman. I can get so mad about that. We're in a crisis here. Our own people are having a hard time. The Prime Minister throws tens of billions of our money across the border. That's nauseating! A few examples. Rutte signed for a grant of 85 billion euros to Italy, while the Italians are on average three times as rich as the Dutch. Italy is now going to reduce VAT. They're gonna hire extra care workers, they're gonna reduce the waiting lists in the care, they're gonna raise pensions, they're gonna invest heavily in the tourist industry, and they're gonna expect an economic growth rate of 15%. Thanks to our money. And then the French. They also receive 50 billion. They now give their care workers a historic structural salary increase of as much as €2,000 per year. And the French policemen are now getting a fat bonus. France leaves the retirement age at 62 years. 62 years, that's a little different than those 67 years here. They're going to spend billions on improving the purchasing power of the poorest French. Thanks to our money. Then the Spaniards. The Spanish also receive more than 70 billion euros in donations from Rutte cum suis and have already introduced a basic income of €1,000 per month. In Spain, it was planned to increase VAT and environmental taxes. That's not gonna happen. Thanks to our money. And of course Rutte doesn't forget his big friends in Greece either. They're used to getting money from him. Now the Greeks get almost EUR 20 billion. They're going to pay that money to their pensioners. They are now going to reduce VAT. They're going to introduce a labor discount. All thanks to our money. Mr. Chairman. That's a goddamn complaint. Which Dutchman on earth has agreed to that? How unfair is it for Prime Minister Rutte to sign so many billion cheques for southern Europe without even one election programme? That's unfair, isn't it? Then you're thinking, "What about the Netherlands?" I want a VAT cut here! I want an extra raise here for the care workers! I want a lower personal risk in care here! I want to rent lower down here! I want more money for pensions here! In our own country! But we're not gonna get any of that, because that's where the Prime Minister is. He's been giving away the money abroad. That is ten years of Rutte: always and everywhere for everyone abroad to draw the wallet, from Greece to Ethiopia, from Italy to Mozambique. They all get free money. Our money. Your money, I tell the people at home. Money that, of course, we should have spent here in our own country on our own people. Mr. Chairman. Meanwhile, a nightmare is happening here in our own country. The Netherlands has changed beyond recognition in ten years. The Netherlands has become a walhalla for non-western immigrants, asylum seekers and screaming activists who are doing their best to erase our traditions. Unfortunately, they've been given carte blanche by our Prime Minister, Rutte. She wasn't put in the way of any strobe. Representatives of Kick Out Black Piet and Black Lives Matter have even visited the Prime Minister at the Catshuis. As a florist here in The Hague said to me the other day when I bought him a flower for his home: "Mr. Wilders, why should all that scummorry come visit Rutte and ordinary hardworking people like me? Why doesn't Rutte think of us Dutch?" Of course, the man was right. What the hell are you doing, Prime Minister Rutte? As I said in an interrupting debate, Dutch people are not racists. Stop suggesting that. They don't have a problem with what color someone has. In fact, it's exactly the other way around. It is precisely the Dutch who are discriminated against, shouted at and robbed by immigrant thugs on the street, on the tram and at school. Why, Mr. Prime Minister, won't you stand up for those people? Why not? If they want a rental house, they have to be on the waiting list for years because lucky seekers go first. The Dutch pay the full price for their care, while those for asylum seekers from Africa are free. If you're looking for a job in the government, you're gonna get immigrants in front of you and you're gonna check it out. It's the world upside down. Dutch people are discriminated against, Mr. Rutte. Why don't I hear about that? Why do you have to be fooled by the left every time? Why do you abandon the common man and woman? Mr. Chairman. I've just told you. If you're really against discrimination, if you're really against violence, if you're really against unequal treatment, then you actually have one enemy, and that's Islam. That ideology always distinguishes between Muslims and non-Muslims. All non-Muslims are put away as kafirs. They are inferior and may even be combated by force. Islam is therefore the largest apartheid ideology in the world. Why is this house always concealing this Islamic discrimination? Why, when it comes to the past of slavery, is it kept silent about the fact that Islam and slavery have been two hands on a belly for 1,400 years, that slavery still exists in the Islamic world to this day? Why do all those left-wing activists not have the guts to demonstrate here in The Hague before the embassy of the Islamic slave state of Qatar; a country where in 2020 forced labourers, modern slaves with thousands at once die of hunger, heat and exhaustion? But on those killing fields of Qatar the World Cup football will be played by football millionaires who do have a big problem with a joke about Black Piet by the football analyst Johan Derksen, but apparently have no problem with this. Isn't that a huge hypocrite? That's hypocritical, isn't it, Mr. Chairman? The Netherlands has also become an overcrowded country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u136	I would like to comment on Mr Wilders' economic story. I think the word "hypocrite" applies. I want to talk about the difference between what he says and what he does. I have a question about that because I don't understand it very well. Wilders presents himself here as a kind of defender of ordinary working Dutchmen. But when you look at what he does, he often votes, if not always, against the interests of those working Dutch. If there are proposals to protect the bike couriers better, Wilders votes against, along with Rutte's VVD. When proposals are made to better protectzzp'ers, Wilders votes against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u137	The what? Did you just say "bike couriers"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u138	Bicycle couriers, more protection for people who bring around meals. You were against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u139	I didn't even know they existed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u140	That's odd when you vote on it. When we made a proposal to retire people with a heavy occupation earlier, Wilders opposed, together with the VVD van Rutte. When we made a proposal with the SP to protect people doing night work, with the police and in the care, Wilders was against, along with Rutte's VVD. My question to Mr Wilders with all these words is: why is he on the leash, why is he acting like Rutte's brother when it comes to protecting the rights of working Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u141	You must have the guts to do this as a former Deputy Prime Minister of the Rutte Cabinet. Who's the little brother of the cabinet now? Why do you have nine seats in the Lower House? Let me put it this way. Why do you now have nine seats in the Lower House? That's because the Labour Party was in the person of yourself there. How many times have we been here? You cut the discharge. You cut into the WW. There has been no party that has destroyed the interests of the workers as much as the Labour Party with Lodewijk Asscher in trade union K. Please do not come and lecture me with examples that an employee has prepared and perhaps I do not have all of them ready. You're the one who took people hard. That's why you're now on nine seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u142	We'll play Wildersbingo for a while. If there's a question he doesn't like, it's either Islam or Brussels or the PvdA or there's just a you-bak; the question itself hasn't been answered. You don't know what bike messengers are. You don't know what zzzp'ers are. You don't know what heavy professions are. You don't know what employees are. If you've forgotten, I'll give you a hand. 13 September 2018: "Whereas research has shown that night work can lead to diabetes, cardiovascular disease among night workers in care and police; calls on the government to take measures with employers and workers to better protect people." Who's against it? Geert Wilders with his PVV! You can now refer to others and perhaps that Brussels will come in handy again, but my question remains: why do you vote in favour of the VVD against the interests of working Dutch people? And if you keep calling everyone a hypocrite, it's nice of you to mention it. The PVV is just a right-wing party on Rutte's leash.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u143	If one party has placed itself on the right and therefore now sits in the Lower House with a poor nine seats, then it is the party of Louis Asscher. Everyone remembers him from cutting the WW, cutting the sick money, taking... I know what he's done. So don't come here and lecture me. I can also suggest a list of what your party was against at the time. That doesn't make any sense at all. If there is one party that combines the firm policy when it comes to immigration and when it comes to law-and-order, with heart for care, with extra money for care, with standing up for those workers, then it is the PVV. We didn't betray ourselves. The Labour Party has betrayed itself. And again, that's why you're now standing on nine seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u144	We have talked about the previous elections before. I stand here proud, cheerful, with good courage and with great sense in next year. But I address Mr Wilders to his own behavior. He refuses to answer that. Of course, that's not as strong as taking everyone's standards with such big words. My question is now for the third time. If you do not answer that question again, you seem to be afraid to do so. The question was: why does Wilders participate in the VVD, with Rutte? And there are many more examples, eh; it's quite a long list. Why does Wilders vote in favour of the right-wing block, which he so dramatically portrayed, against the interests of employees? Now he shouldn't refer to others; he's a big, tough gentleman. Why would he do that? And there is the question: what does he have to offer people? You want to leave Europe, you want to do everything, but when you come to the point, you vote against the interests of working Dutch people. It's so fair to say that. There was once someone in the opposition who would say about such a situation: then you are a kind of businessman of Rutte when it comes to the interests of employees. You're gonna have to tell me. You have to say: people, if you vote for me, you'll get the whole show, the whole Wildersbingo, but when you come to a point, I'll vote with Rutte against the interests of the employees. That's Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u145	I remember very well that Mr Cohen was here, the predecessor of this colleague of the Labour Party. Mr Cohen indeed behaved himself at the time when it was Wilders I and he sat in the opposition as the businessman in the Chamber. Afterwards, that businessman in the Chamber was replaced by the businessman in trade union K. And that business was you. That wasn't me, that was you. Ú has behaved like the businessmanship, and the PVV naturally stands up for all employees in the Netherlands. I will come up with concrete proposals in a moment. We always stand up for all employees in the Netherlands. It's in our blood, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u146	Please take a moment to explain why you are against the protection of those workers when it comes to night work. You have plenty of time for that this morning. That night's work is about those people in care, about those heroes in care, about the heroes in the police. Why are you against it? Why do you agree to the VVD? Why are you against better protection forzzp'ers? Why are you against it? Will you explain that to me? You're always a master at blaming others. I think you're the best at that. But just come out honestly why you're voting against the interests of those people in the police, of those people in the care? You don't do that. I'm asking you for the fourth time now, but there's just no answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u147	For the fourth time, Madam President, he gets the same answer, namely that the PVV stands up for all employees' interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u148	Except for votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u149	Can I finish my answer? We were the ones, Mr. Asscher, who stood up for extra money in care. We were the ones who voted against your antisocial laws under Rutte II to cut into care. Do you remember when you were Deputy Prime Minister? We were the ones who opposed and voted against your proposal to shorten the WW: the Asscher proposal. You were then Minister of Social Affairs. You are the great enemy of the workers. That's why you're on nine seats now. And don't try to lecture me on a motion that was tabled two years ago. You destroyed the entire social security system when you were Minister of Social Affairs. That's why you're from....what is it? 40 to 9 seats.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u150	Finally, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u151	Still no answer on his own voting behaviour. That promises a lot for the future. When it comes down to it, Wilders agrees with the VVD against the interests of employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u152	The opposite is the case. The PVV will always stand up and has always stood up for the employees. It is the Labour Party that was and still remains the businessman of Rutte. Therefore, I cannot repeat it enough, you have received such a blow from the PvdA chooser, because the PvdA chooser no longer recognized himself in the policy of the Labour Party. Why don't you think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u153	I actually want to make the proposal, or I'm just suggesting that you move on. Then you, Mr. Azarkan, have an opportunity to interrupt. Everyone gets the same chances. I suggest that Mr Wilders continue and then you will have the opportunity to interrupt at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u154	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is now an overcrowded country. In ten years Rutte has filled our country with strange people and made large parts of our country a kind of foreign country. In our streets, in school squares, on the beach and in the IKEA: everywhere it is full of headscarves and djellaba's. It's horrible. The group of people who have nothing to do with our culture is also growing. Dutch people have often become strangers in their own streets and cities. And it's only gonna get worse. Almost 80% of Moroccan Muslims in the Netherlands now wear headscarfs, according to research. And every headscarf is a thick middle finger to our society. An Islamic conquest symbol, indicative of the state of our country. The Netherlands colors head cloth black. Islam conquers the Netherlands. We will lose our country if we continue this way, thanks to the open borders of this Prime Minister, who has given away our country in fast-track traffic, who has broken all the immigration and asylum records. No less than 750,000 non-Western immigrants have entered the Netherlands in the last ten years. That's a city with almost as many inhabitants as Amsterdam, but then crawled with mosques and screaming minarets, a city where girls are circumcised, gay people are beaten up, Jews are attacked and Dutch people are robbed. That too is ten years Rutte. Mr. Chairman. And it goes on and on. 750,000 non-Western immigrants are not enough for those left-wing liberals. Last week Rutte went down again with his VVD and brought 100 asylum seekers from Greece to the Netherlands. From a reception camp set on fire by asylum seekers themselves. That's what they do well, from the Schilderswijk and Kanaleneiland to Lesbos: set things on fire. This is now rewarded with a ticket to the Netherlands. Indeed, I predicted: yesterday near a shelter camp on another island, Samos, another fire again! Five migrants from Afghanistan, Africa and Syria have been arrested as suspect arsonists by the Greek police. I foretold. Everything, but also everything, is on fire now, because there are residence permits as a reward. Let that get through to you. The so-called law-and-order party VVD rewards the burning of shelter camps by handing out tickets to and residence permits for the Netherlands. And again, the ordinary Dutchman who gets this multicultural hell in his neighbourhood and street is shamelessly but shamelessly abandoned. Mr. Chairman. Our beautiful seaside resort Scheveningen seemed like a piece of Saudi Arabia last summer. The beach was full of Muslims in Bedouin-like tents with carpets, water pipes and Arabic music and with countless headscarves. We'll have some camels on our beach. Our beaches have now become a melting pot of foreign and ethnic scum that, like in the rest of the Netherlands, harasses and gropes our women, fights feuds among themselves, robberies and robberies and deals in cocaine and nitrous gas. Stabbing and shooting in broad daylight with the absolute low point this summer the Moroccan Samir el Y., who shot a brave Dutchman who wanted to prevent his friend's watch from being stolen, unscrupulously in broad daylight. Terror and misery, every day in many cities and neighbourhoods, often by Moroccans. You see it everywhere. And that too is the legacy of Mark Rutte, the man who had a decade to turn the tide, but chose not to act and to let in more of that thug. How far does it have to go before they step away from looking away, hugging, drinking tea and finally getting caught up against those street terrorists, against the scum that's taking our country off? When will we finally act instead of capitulation? Pick them up. If possible, take them away from the Dutch. Lock them down. Face them out of the country as soon as possible. The Moroccan police know what to do with them. You still get less, less and less. Get out of here. That's what needs to be done. In addition to the Dutch, the good Moroccans will also benefit, because many of them are now sick of it. Indeed, my mailbox is also full of mails from Moroccan people saying: Mr Wilders, very well what you are proposing, because they are only making it worse for us. Mr. Chairman. I want my Netherlands back. A lot of Dutch people want their country back. We must take back the Netherlands on Islam, on the scum, on the group of people who have absolutely nothing to do with our country and our culture. That is why, after ten years of open borders of Rutte, we will finally have to close our borders for even more immigrants from Islamic countries. The fewer headscarves in the Netherlands, the better. Enough is enough. This is our country and Islam is not part of the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. Ten years of Rutte was ten years of mass immigration, ten years of pay to Brussels and ten years of cultural degradation. A decade of Rutte has also made our country dependent. What that means for the Netherlands and for the Dutch, the corona crisis has shown us in recent months. Rutte sent our entire supply of protective equipment on a plane to Wuhan in China. Our care workers were then sent out unprotected because we had too few mouth caps and we had to let them come from abroad. Dutch patients had to be admitted to Germany because there were not enough ic-spots in their own country. Although the contagions are now unfortunately increasing considerably again, that's worrying. Fortunately, there is no second wave. There's no need to panic, either. That is a good thing, because the cabinet is still not sufficiently prepared. We're still short on staff. We're still short of Ice Beds. We still have a shortage of laboratory and test capacity. There's actually a shortage of everything, except for the profiling urge of Minister De Jonge. So I would like to say to the Cabinet: stop putting time and energy into that terrible corona law that restricts our freedoms, but make sure you finally get your things in order and make sure that all those heroes in care finally get a substantial structural salary increase. Isn't it incredible that the cabinet and the coalition keep looking away? Finally give those care workers the respect they deserve. You can't keep running from your responsibility. It was really the biggest parliamentary scandal since time immemorial that MPs of the coalition recently literally ran out of the House of Representatives not to have to vote on my motion on a higher salary for care workers. €6,000 net earning those cowardly runners a month, but they're too miserable to give the respect with the corresponding reward to all those care heroes, who often earn only a third of the salary of those running MPs. Shame on you. Our proposal is to give those care workers a structurally higher salary, preferably €1,000 or more extra. I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Now that we have received the economic blows of the corona crisis, we need a much stronger economic boost than the government intends to give. It is not only the companies that are hit that need to be helped more generously, but also the citizens now need a greater burden reduction and additional purchasing power in these difficult times. Because here too, Prime Minister Rutte has promised gold mountains for ten years, but has not delivered them. He promised the workers we all remember a bonus of €1,000. He even encouraged us to buy a new car or a new house. Both are now priceless. At the start of this third Rutte cabinet, he promised that we would make a great deal of progress. People were finally going to notice in their wallet that things were getting better, and I must say that they were going with the economy. They all turned out to be lies. The Dutch are still waiting for those beautiful promises from Mark Rutte. Millions of people in the last ten years of Rutte have fallen on it. Everything was getting more expensive and everything was being cut back. The groceries became more expensive, studying the children, the rent of the house, the care, the energy bill... Everything, but everything became more expensive. Not to mention the climate crazy that will make the citizen very poor. Mr. Chairman. We can't do this anymore. The helm has to change, because our people often don't make it anymore. I heard the director of the Nibud on television last Sunday saying that one in three Dutch people expect to be unable to pay the bills in the near future. That's incredible, isn't it? One in three Dutch people expect to be unable to pay their bills anymore. If you lose your job, the financial malaise for your family is beyond your control. So we need to invest in our own people. One in three, Prime Minister, can't pay his bills anymore, and you give billions to Italy, Greece, Spain and France, but you don't come up with concrete measures to give our own people who are struggling and who can't pay their bills anymore, some extras in these difficult times. It has to be done. Our own people lead the way. Those people voted for you, voted for me, voted for us; not the Greeks and the Italians. So come up with a strong purchasing power impulse. That's what the Netherlands needs right now. That's good for the economy. For example, bring down the low VAT rate to 0%. Reduce that low VAT rate from 9% to 0%. That is very good for our economy, that is good for the catering industry, that is good for shopping, that is good for the citizens, that is good for business. Our neighbours, Belgium and Germany, have already reduced VAT in their way. The Netherlands should not be left behind. I would like a response from the Prime Minister to this proposal to reduce VAT. The energy bill, Madam President, must be lowered and can also be reduced. Half of the energy bill now consists of taxes. People pay off to the energy bill because so many taxes are paid. This can be reduced by €300, €400 per household. And lower the rents by at least 10%, 15%. We've had the biggest rent rise in years. I believe that Rutte's rents have increased by 28% or 27% over the last ten years. Those are often huge costs. The cabinet is doing something about that, but absolutely far too little. My proposal is to reduce the rent significantly. Mr. Chairman. Of course, keeping your job is a great one, perhaps the best purchasing power impulse. That is why my question to the cabinet is that it should not be used up in the next six months. Restaurants and a lot of other sectors are not gonna make it. Keep them from firing their employees. 500,000 people, 0.5 million people, work in the catering industry alone. That sector is going to be devastated if we keep going like this. So help them. Help them and do not come up with austerities from that NOW, not in the last quarter of this year and not in the first quarter of next year. Mr. Chairman. There are also a lot of companies that have made use of paying their taxes later. The cabinet is now proposing that they still have to pay these taxes from 1 January and that they have 24 months to do so. That too is too soon. Companies are often still in trouble. If they're not in there and they're slowly picking up, January 1st is too fast to have to pay back all those taxes. My request is therefore: make 1 January 1 July and extend the period from 24 months to 48 months. So start it six months later and don't take two years but four years. It is true that countries from southern Europe with whom we take out loans, with whom Europe, the Commission, takes out loans, only have to start paying back in four or five years' time. It can take them a lot of years. The Prime Minister knows that. Why, why, do we treat our own businesses worse than those in southern and eastern Europe? Take that example and do it. I've talked to a lot of entrepreneurs about it. You would really help them with that. Also for those with jobs, the employees, this is great news, because the chances of them losing their jobs are smaller and that is the best purchasing power guarantee. Madam President, I'm finishing up. March 2021 will be a historic month. The Party for Freedom then exists for exactly fifteen years. In order to celebrate that, the Dutch elections will be held in the Dutch Parliament that month, so that Dutch people can then hit two birds with one stone: they can deal with the ten-year Rutte demolition policy and they can make the PVV the biggest party in the Netherlands during her anniversary party. Only then will the chance be greatest that other parties will not be able to get around us, that we will really be able to make changes and that we will be able to rebuild the Netherlands. A Netherlands where our wives and daughters can go on the streets safely again, where criminals are locked up for a long time or are expelled from our country, where we close our borders for lucky seekers and immigrants from Islamic countries, where our own culture, including Black Piet, is once again leading, where strangers adapt to us instead of the other way around, where people don't have to work until the 70th and where pensioners are not reduced every time but get a decent pension, where streets and shops are no longer dominated by headscarves but by shopping Dutch families, where we don't have to throw our money over the border anymore but to spend our own people so that the rent, energy bill and care for all those who never get anything free will be affordable again, so that they can just go back to doing nice things and enjoy a little bit of life. That's my Netherlands. That's our Netherlands. That is the Netherlands that so many people long for. And that country, the Netherlands, is getting closer when voters give us massive confidence in March next year and maybe even make the PVV the largest party in the Netherlands, to that country, to our country, to get back at the Netherlands. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u155	Thank you, I am looking at Mr Azarkan. No? I shall go to Mr Segers and then to Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u156	Something in me says that Mr Wilders is not so satisfied with cabinet policy. I had a slightly different impression from Mr Asscher, who said: there are quite some similarities between Mr Wilders and Mr Rutte. I did taste some difference with and some criticism towards Mr Rutte. I have seen before that he tweeted pictures about Minister De Jonge, pictures of shoes: it wasn't all that big a deal or it wasn't all that good. Mr Wilders has announced himself as the new Prime Minister. He is now calling for a massive PVV vote. Then a cabinet must be formed. Then you're gonna have to work together. I am very curious: with whom would Mr Wilders wish to form a cabinet? We saw something yesterday about an attempt by Mr Baudet towards Mr Asscher. Is Mr Wilders also looking at Mr Asscher, at the PvdA, for this cooperation? Who's he gonna form a coalition with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u157	That's all The Hague politics. I only have one goal. I am not going to answer all these questions, from anyone, about who we are or who we are not working with. That would be a little arrogant. The campaign has yet to begin. People still have to vote. The votes still have to be counted. So you won't catch me telling you who I'm or aren't going to work with. I say one thing: we are going to work hard, with all the PVV's here in the House of Representatives and beyond, to ensure that the PVV becomes as big as possible and preferably the largest party in the Netherlands. And when that happens, I know it will be difficult and perhaps impossible to pass the PVV. You remember how it went last time. The Prime Minister and the VVD won the election. But we became the second party by far. Well, by far, we had one seat more than the rest, but still...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u158	A little nuance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u159	In my head it was by far, but it was only one seat. We became the largest... the second party of the Netherlands. That's why I'm starting to speak here today. That is because we are the second party of the Netherlands. I remember how horrible I was that we weren't even allowed to sit at the table at the time. Mrs. Schippers was the informant at the time. That's where you came by. Of course, you can't talk about that, but okay. She was still willing, but the VVD, the CDA and everyone said no. So my appeal to the electorate is: don't stay home! Take a vote. Do you want anything other than Rutte as prime minister and the VVD as the biggest party? Do you want the PVV to have influence and change something about the Netherlands? Then the PVV must become very large and preferably the largest party. And then we'll see who we're gonna work with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u160	Mr Wilders is talking very loudly in my direction, but I do not think I am going to vote PVV, but that aside. Speaking of arrogance, you announce yourself as the new prime minister. I wouldn't dare, but you do. You say I'm going to be the new prime minister. Then you have to work together. You can't cut that down to The Hague's shit. You make a promise to the electorate: vote for me and I'm going to change the Netherlands. There is no other way in this country than by working together. If you send a litany down here on Prime Minister Rutte, the CDA and any other party, when you are unable to cooperate, then you have nothing to offer the electorate. Then you have nothing to promise. You're gonna have to do it with others eventually. Again, who do you want to work with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u161	You can ask that question 80 times, you get the same answer 80 times. I'm not gonna answer that question right now. People need to give the PVV, I hope, as much support as possible. The bigger we get, the harder it is to ignore us. Imagine if the PVV became the biggest party. If that's a lot of seats, you might need five, six, seven parties if you were to ignore the PVV. That would be an unworkable situation. There are already four of you, because you have passed the second party of the Netherlands, by the way, in a very undemocratic way. You just kicked 1.5 million votes of those PVV voters into the trash. I don't want that to happen again. That's why I hope people vote for us. Games about who wants to rule with who? After the election. First, we fight for every voice, because we're far from there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u162	There can only be a cabinet there that relies on the majority of the Dutch people's votes. That cabinet's there. So we can only rule by a majority. Then you have to work together. I can indeed say from experience that this is not always easy. You have to sit around the table with very different parties and sometimes you have to talk for a very long time to get out. Mr Wilders himself tried to do so for a year and a half. Then he left and never came back. He's got another version of that history. I wasn't there. I'll leave that for what it is. But I notice that whoever votes for the PVV is being bought. There's no cooperation ahead. There is no ability to work with others, because then you will have to be reasonable. Then you'll have to compromise once in a while. Then you will have to work with others instead of just blaspheming others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u163	Again, the bigger the PVV gets, the better the chance is that we do want to have dinner. And we wanted to, last time. Remember? A few years ago, in 2017, we made twenty seats and became the second party of the Netherlands. We wanted to sit down at the table! We wanted to talk. We wanted to rule. Each party must take the responsibility to rule with it. Of course! If that is not the case, there will be 20 of us, and hopefully in the near future, with a lot more people, who are going to fight hard and hard. But every party, including the PVV, wants to take responsibility in trade-K. And that includes compromise. But the game of "with whom and who not" is completely pointless, because we don't even know how the elections turn out and how big parties become. We'll do it after. It would be very arrogant to rule out parties in advance or to say: we are doing it together. Absolutely not. We fight for every vote. And the bigger we get, the harder it gets to ignore us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u164	The interesting thing about the General Reviews is that I always find it interesting to hear what themes parties want to bring forward, what really affects them, about which they say: something must happen there. Mr Wilders also said that these were recognizable themes. But then the question is, how do you get on with that? Take the subject we were talking about at the beginning, namely whether this criminal group oath was not over-designed in our code of conduct. Is that what gets you into trouble as a politician? I think that is a legitimate question in question. The PVV submitted a legislative proposal in 2012 which did not go any further. Mr Driessen then waved off. Later, in 2014, it was Mr Van Klaveren. In 2016 we had a nice debate about it, but it never came to an answer. So we couldn't get in either. I would like to challenge the PVV to discuss these important issues, very crafty, in quiet, thorough debates, by how we proceed. Will Mr. Wilders also pick up that glove?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u165	Sure. The SGP colleague makes a legitimate and right point. We have made proposals and they must be implemented until the end. There's been a debate here. I remember that very well. Mr Bosma was then the spokesperson for the initiative proposal. It was about whether or not there was a group oath, about what to do with Article 137 and about what to say about discrimination. Of course, I hope that this article will be discussed seriously, whether this happens when we are in a cabinet or rather through own-initiative legislation. Hopefully it will also get a majority, because once again, freedom of expression is a great asset. My point at the beginning of the debate, once again, with recognition of the point made by Mr Van der Staaij, was that, in my view, this was also mainly a political process. That's what's left of the question as to whether this was group swearing or not. I think that's impossible at all, because I've been convicted of insulting people on the basis of their race. That's not even in Dutch law. Race? Moroccans aren't races, so that's not true anyway. But apart from that discussion, it was just a political process. I had hoped that colleagues in this Chamber would stand up and say: no matter what we think of your opinion, we do not accept that there will be a political trial. I had, like I said, recorded it for all of you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u166	This was also the subject of the debate at the time. It is also part of a rule of law that it is sometimes difficult for everyone. My group also attaches great importance to this: you have to be careful with cases that are under the courts. Then you also have to wait until a debate is over. But there would still be all kinds of debates about it, including the prosecution of Mr Wilders' case. But Corona has taken this off the agenda again. But now a point that concerns many Dutch people, as you rightly point out. I mentioned one example of how far you're going with that group termination. The same applies to the over-representation of certain ethnic minorities in crime rates. I think that's just a legitimate question. A lot of people run into that. This also applies to discrimination on the other hand. I think we should just talk about that. We need to see if we can get through that. During the period when Mr Wilders was in the role of one of the Rutte Cabinets, the policy of specifically tackling crime in relation to the over-representation of ethnic minorities has actually stopped. Would it not really be a good thing if this policy were to be re-created, not just to say something solid about it in a debate, but to really see how we can tackle this over-representation, whether it be Moroccans, Antilleans or other groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u167	I've been talking about it in this house for almost 20 years. I always talk about it. It's not Rutte I, or before or after. We've had Moroccan debates here. The chairman was asked in an interview this week how she felt about that, I saw. But there was a Moroccan debate here. We're talking about the overrepresentation here... I have once again been preparing for this debate to see how long it is on the agenda, not only politically but also socially. Since the 1980s you can see that in Gouda and other places, in those neighborhoods, there were all kinds of problems with Moroccans. They've only gotten bigger. When I got out of the VVD and in the beginning was Group Wilders, we had debates on this, I asked questions about it. I'm not doing anything else, it seems, than solving that problem. The problem is that we are not making any progress because the cabinet does not do what it has to do by ensuring that the borders are closed, so don't mop up with the tap open but make sure that no more people from Islamic countries come to the Netherlands. That's step one. Step two is to say to the people who are here, if you abide by our rules, our standards, our values and our laws, you're welcome to stay equal to everyone else; but you break that law, you're gonna think about applying the sharia or you're gonna go into crime, then we're gonna bust you and then we're gonna knock you out of the country or we're gonna put you in jail for how many years. As long as we do not take that step, and I do not think Mr Van der Staaij disagrees with me at all, we are not sending the signal that it cannot be done in the Netherlands. We must finally take those steps. And if the PVV is hopefully going to be big and perhaps the biggest, the best chance is that we will finally get to grips with that Moroccan problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u168	But we don't know if the PVV will be the biggest. As a SGP we have been around for 100 years and we find that sometimes you need some time to grow. So in that respect you should not only rely on that, but also just see how you can practically move forward. Frankly, on this subject, I have the idea that we are both in the Chamber for a very long time. In 2000, I simply had debates here with PvdA and D66 ministers on how to deal with this over-representation. Now you can hardly talk about it anymore, because then you're part of the PVV. That's not supposed to happen, is it? We have to discuss the serious problems that people run into here, party-wide, don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u169	Sure. It's not so bad to be part of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u170	Well, not for the SGP then. In the past, Mr Wilders spoke other words about Islam. He even stood up for Islam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u171	That's an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u172	That's right, that's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u173	I don't know what you're talking about. You meant in my VVD time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u174	Mr Wilders said in the past: Islam is a religion to be respected. In fact, he attacked Pim Fortuyn. He said that what Mr Fortuyn is doing is reprehensible, that people should be treated in the same way. He stood up for the Muslims, he stood up for Islam. He said, "Look, you've got a bunch of extremists screwing up," but basically, there's nothing wrong with those one and a half billion Muslims. What happened to Mr. Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u175	Mr Wilders has now left the VVD, as you may know. It's been a while, but he's not in the VVD's straitjacket anymore at the time. I remember well, Mr Dijkstal, he was a nice man, by the way, was then chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. And indeed, at that time the lyrics were partly different, but I am, as you know, even though I do not know how many years away. I've seen what Islam stands for. I've also seen what Islam does to us, not just to me, but to all of us. And the day we get less Islam in the Netherlands, I get the flag out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u176	But then it's just purely political gain and people talk to their mouths. The position that Mr Wilders had in that situation as a member of the VVD Group was really his opinion at that time. He said that literally back then, and he was wearing it out, too. I just said he even attacked Pim Fortuyn. That means that when he sees where more can be achieved, he then equates one and a half billion Muslims. He knows damn well it's a group of extremists. And yes, we must fight them. That's where you'll find me by your side. But what he has been doing here for the last hour and a half, putting all Moroccan Dutch people on the same footing, putting people away as terrorists and constantly quoting them: I don't even think he believes that himself, but he knows that this works well with his supporters. That's why he says that. He's smarter than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u177	No, that's not the case. Again, the colleague of DENK forgets part of the truth. When I left the VVD, ten, twenty years ago, I was first threatened. Already before the murder of Theo van Gogh I was secured and one day after the murder of Theo van Gogh I was taken out of my house and never came back, because I was threatened by the Hofstad group to kill me together with Ayaan Hirsi Ali. So don't act like nothing happened at the time. To this day, I've seen the face of Islam. We all saw it at 9/11. We all saw it in the murder of Theo van Gogh. We've seen it every time. That's what happened and my opinion is like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u178	Finally, Mr Azarkan. Very briefly, because then we'll go to the next one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u179	Mr. Chairman. I really understand that Mr Wilders says: I was attacked by someone who calls himself a Muslim by a Muslim. Or: I was put on a kill list. Then he'll find me by his side. The difference is that Islam does not fight Mr Wilders. It is not Islam that is attacking Mr Wilders. It's not Islam that does anything. And yet, since 2004, he's been giving up on religion. He knows damn well that's not religion. And of course there are individual people, as there are Christians, as there are Jews, as there are Chinese. It's people who do something in the name of a religion that hurt others. That's reprehensible. But what Mr Wilders is doing here is putting away a million Muslims as terrorists. And he knows damn well that's not true. He knows damn well that's a small group. Because when we look at the Netherlands, we see that those million Muslims are simply participating fully. And of course there are criminal Muslims; certainly there are. We have to fight them with each other. But we do by looking at their actions and not at their origins. Because they're not born a criminal at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u180	No, the opposite is true. Islam is by far the biggest problem that threatens our democracy. Islam distinguishes between Muslims and Islam. Indeed, there are moderate Muslims and radical Muslims, but there is no moderate Islam. There's no such thing. There are no two Korans. There's only one holy book. There's only one Hadith. There is only one interpretation because no interpretation is tolerated of the Qur'an and the life of Muhammad. There's only one Islam, and that's the problem. Islam is intrinsically a great danger, the greatest danger of our freedom, the greatest danger to our children's freedom. Mr. Azarkan, in every country in the world where Islam is dominant, ideology, it is not religion, it is a totalitarian ideology, there is no freedom, there is no parliament, there is no independent justice. There journalists are outlaws, they cannot speak the truth, they become Jews, they become Christians, they get caught because they don't belong. And do you know why it's an ideology and not a religion? I've said it before. Because that is equivalent to communism and Fascism if you leave Islam, there is the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u181	Sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u182	I wasn't finished, Madam President. That is not so in Christianity, that is not so in Judaism, that is not so in Hindus, but in Islam, if a Muslim wants to choose freedom. I grant freedom to every Muslim in the Netherlands. I call on all Muslims in the Netherlands to leave Islam, to choose freedom. You do that, you're gonna get yourself killed, and you're gonna get yourself killed. And that, that ideology, I don't want in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u183	Mr Wilders spoke just at the end of his speech on the Dutch Parliamentary elections in March next year. He's hoping for a place at the formation table. In the campaign, you're going to try to convince voters with your ideas, but it's also so neat to clear up to the voters with whom you do and do not want to cooperate after that election, so voters know what their vote is worth. In recent years Mr Wilders has regularly ruled out the fact that he will form a coalition with Mark Rutte's VVD. My question is actually very simple to Mr Wilders. Does he still exclude Mark Rutte's VVD as a coalition partner in the upcoming Second Chamber elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u184	That's the same question as before. You can try it 80 times, with all new notes. I'm not gonna answer without a note, complimenting you on questions about who does and who doesn't. I'm not gonna do that, even if I've done it in the past. I'm not gonna do it now. These are going to be essential elections. We can finally change the course of the Netherlands after ten years of Rutte. I hope my party does. Sure isn't. Then I have to do my best, then there are twenty of us and all those PVV's every day we have to do even more. Then we have to convince people that they're going to vote for us. Then we have to get people to the ballot box with that alternative of that beautiful Netherlands that I want. It's not that far. It could fail, too. I hope it works, but before then, I'm not gonna talk about who is and who isn't? We're getting elections. We're gonna work hard in the campaign and then I'm gonna answer your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u185	The whole argument so far has been very direct with clear language. That's how we know Mr. Wilders. But the answer also makes it clear that Mr Wilders has been around the Binnenhof for some 30 years now, because this is the answer with the most flour in his mouth. The question is very simple. Mr Wilders previously excluded Mark Rutte's VVD as a possible coalition partner. He's been here for two hours fighting Mark Rutte's VVD, and then your constituents, or the people who are considering voting for the PVV, will want to know before they go to the polling booth on March 17 if you'll give those votes to Mark Rutte in a next coalition. I ask you one more time: does Geert Wilders exclude the VVD as a coalition partner?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u186	And I'm gonna say it again: before the election, we're not gonna do quartets. We'll do that after the election. We're gonna work as hard as we can to get as big as we can. I see I have two minutes left, Madam President. That's not true, is it? Do you want me to go on for two more minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u187	You've been interrupted a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u188	We want a Netherlands where the Dutchman stands on one again, where we do not open the borders again, where we give the money not to the Italians but to the Dutch, where the people's wallet is open again to do something nice, where people can send their daughter safely on the street. That is what we want from the Netherlands. For that, it is not important to say who we are going to rule with at this stage, and for that it is important that the PVV be as large as possible. I want to, and I want to work for it and I want to fight for it. It would be arrogant to say already who I will or will not rule with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u189	No, that's not arrogant, that's just being clear to the voters. My constituents don't want me to work with you, and we're not going to. I don't think you want me to. You do not offer that clarity for the PVV-chooser and with that you have become as The Hague-like as anyone you have been so angry at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u190	I'm not The Hagues, I'm just a boy from Venlo. There's nothing The Hague about that. But I'm telling you, we're gonna work first, we're gonna campaign first, and we're gonna hold elections first. After that, it also depends on how large parties become. You may want a lot, but the voter decides. The voter's the boss. If the voter gives the PVV five seats in a moment, we have to take a lower tone and we have to sit somewhere in the back of a room and try to get a little closer. If the voter gives us a lot of seats, we can do more. Then other parties in this Chamber can play a role, depending on how big they are. It is false to say with that party now or not. Maybe that party's gonna be very small, or that party's gonna be very big. I want a beautiful Netherlands. I want a Netherlands in which Dutch people are back on one. I'm proud of my country, I'm proud of our culture, I'm proud of our people. That's what I'm gonna fight for, and after that, we'll play your political games.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u191	Thank you. I would like to suspend for five minutes and then proceed with Mr Dijkhoff's contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u192	I give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u193	Mr. Chairman. We've been at it for over two hours. I think the Youth Journal hasn't been able to run for a minute. But that camera can also be turned back on. I promise you it'll do. Mr. Chairman. 2020, what a bizarre year it is. We didn't see that coming. There is a world-wide raging disease and a deep economic crisis. If I had told people last year that they couldn't go to school for a few months or that they could be paid at home, they probably would have been cheering. But when it really turned out that way, it was a lot less fun. You couldn't hug your parents, your grandfather and your grandmother. You couldn't even work out at first. People got sick. Some people got very sick and a lot of people died unfortunately. Corona still kills people every week. I would like to say to the young people: if you are a little confused in these times of this, that's okay. Most adults are also confused. I don't think most of you have ever seen anything like this before. I've never seen anything so bad in my life every day. That all normal things suddenly were completely different. Now you might want to know when it's done, how it's gonna go on. But to be perfectly honest, none of us here know exactly that either. We don't know when it's over. We don't know if it's gonna get much worse at first. When we get rid of corona and have a vaccine, it's still not normal. You can go back to school, work, exercise, hug and do other things you want to do, but then we have to start fixing the damage. Companies that are now going bankrupt. People who are now out of work. Unfortunately, this economic crisis will continue for some time to come. But luckily, there's also good news. There's one thing: in the end, everything's gonna be okay. The crazy thing is, no one knows exactly how, but that it's gonna be okay, I'm sure. Because I've also seen lately that we did it together, that we supported each other when things got tough. I can't believe you guys worked with a kid on your neck at home. Or that you were taught by your teacher on the screen. That you were standing in front of Grandma and Grandpa's window singing because you weren't allowed in. That you sent extra tickets and gifts to your loved ones. That we helped the shopkeepers in the neighborhood by buying extra money from them. That was very good to see. That was very strong. That was strength. That's resilience, and that strength is gonna make it all work out, that we're gonna fight out of this together. We have to struggle for a while now, but then we really come up and higher than ever before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u194	Indeed, after more than two hours of debate, you could almost forget that we are in the biggest post-war crisis, namely the corona crisis. Mr Dijkhoff is quite right to bring this up. He also refers to the resilience of society. Now, caregivers have played a very important role in this corona crisis. That's what we've all been talking about here. I know that many healthcare professionals are watching this debate right now. They wonder what this cabinet actually has to offer for healthcare professionals who, when it comes to it, are being shipped off with a bonus, which is even half of what they should get this year. It's still not on the account. A nice round of applause from all of us. Turns out what? Last night, at the end of this debate, the cabinet comes with the big news. What do the caregivers get? A commission. There will be a committee that will study on the salaries in health care for six months, until after the next election, about what exactly would be needed. I have a question for Mr Dijkhoff. We already know what it takes, don't we? That is a structurally better salary for all those people for whom Mr Dijkhoff, I and all those people here have clapped so hard during the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u195	Mrs Marijnissen asks what I would say to the caregivers. First of all, thank you and respect. I hope that the applause from the debate after that on more wage increases than already planned has not made you cynical, because that conversation and those thanks are really sincere. I know you've worked hard and been prepared for everything, including what you can't prepare for like a pandemic. I also know that none of you asked to get more money before they went to help people. I would say that we are also listening to where the bottlenecks are. Of course, a committee sounds very weak and The Hagues, but bottlenecks are more difficult than just more money. We have also heard that many of you caregivers say: of course I'm not against more pay, but what would help me even more is if child care is more flexible when I have to run flexible services, if I'm more listened to at work, if I get a bigger say in my own work as a nurse, so if I get more say in the work I do on a daily basis. I'd say we've managed to get you guys raises in the last few years. Also for next year there will be room for a structural wage increase. And in addition, because these are special times and you are delivering special performance, there is €1,000 bonus for this year and for next year, because I think there are still some extraordinary achievements to be required of you, again a bonus. In the meantime, we're gonna make sure there's money to see how you guys can do your job better. We need to look carefully at the points in the start-up scales and in the run-through, where it is most sensible to use any additional structural funds. That's what I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u196	Of course, more control is important and caregivers agree. Of course, good childcare is important and caregivers think it is important. But it cannot be explained, I ask Mr Dijkhoff. He himself says: a committee sounds a little lame. But that doesn't just sound a little lame, that's really... That is very lame, but it is also irresponsible if you know that a substantial part of the people who are now working in care are considering doing something else. I really think that Mr Dijkhoff underestimates the pain and anger that carers feel when they had to vote here on higher salaries and run away, but also when they say that you will get a bonus, but that will be half of the amount that you still do not have on your account today. Now it is said: there will be a committee. That committee has to study for six months what is needed, while we know very well what is needed: an honest reward for all those people we have to face. The wretched thing is, of course, that this cabinet does choose, for example, an investment discount for companies of EUR 2 billion. We started this debate. It is completely unclear what kind of investment that should be, what that discount will yield, what it will do. It's all possible. There doesn't have to be a committee there that's gonna do a six-month investigation. But health care salaries up, which we all know is desperately needed, can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u197	You can and we will. The discussion in this Chamber is not about whether or not the healthcare salaries can be increased structurally. The question is whether this should be more than has already been done in recent years and whether it should be more than is already reserved for the coming years. Let's be honest about that. There will certainly be carers who fully support Mrs Marijnissen and behind what she has just said. There will also be caregivers who say... Again, usually no one says no to more salary. They say: but I am also glad that not only is there to talk about more pay, but also about things that are more useful to me. There will be. There will also be carers who say: I also understand that all the money in healthcare is tax money and that we need to make sure that soon enough tax money can be collected for our children for care, and that you have nothing to gain from bankrupting entrepreneurs and people who become unemployed and an economy that comes to a standstill, while spending more money on public salaries; they must go hand in hand. There will also be a lot of healthcare providers who understand that you can structurally increase wages with the space available and give a bonus once, and also make sure that the economy doesn't go down, so that we can still raise enough tax money for care and other things in ten years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u198	Mr Dijkhoff says: you must be honest. But Mr Dijkhoff himself must be honest. It just says a minus next year: -445 million says it when it comes to healthcare salaries. The increase that has been promised is probably not going to happen at all according to the pictures that are now there. And what do health care providers have to do with it? With an applause, with half a bonus, if it is up to Mr Dijkhoff, and with a committee that is going to study. Of course, I am not bringing in this investment discount for nothing, because it is completely unclear what that will mean. Mr Dijkhoff defends the economy and the jobs, and says that caregivers consider this very important. Yeah, of course, we all think that's very important. But it's unbelievable that the cabinet chooses to give 2 billion now. But perhaps I should congratulate you as a VVD in the cabinet, because it is clearly the VVD stamp on this cabinet. We had the dividend tax, we had the profit tax, and now we have the corporate investment discount, or whatever it is. But it's all the same, a nice name for the same thing, which is a tax gift to companies. It's possible. It is completely unclear what that will mean for the economy, which you are referring to. But what is clear is that you leave caregivers in the cold, you drop them off with a bonus and now you say: wait for six months until there is some committee that has studied what is needed. You know very well what it takes. That's an honest reward for all those people we've applauded so much for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u199	Sure, I'm all for a fair reward. That's why there's that bonus next year. I think a lot of people in care don't spit at $500 and don't be as kind about it as Mrs Marijnissen does here. I find it weird to talk about a gift to companies. They're entrepreneurs who are having a hard time. They are now at choice: I can suspend my investment or... You can laugh. Aren't entrepreneurs having a hard time? Don't tell me I'm talking about a raise in health care as a gift to health care providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u200	Mr. Dijkhoff, we don't know that. We were just asking...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u201	You don't think entrepreneurs are having a hard time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u202	That business investment discount is exactly the point. It is quite unclear what that investment should be. It is completely unclear what that would bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u203	Well, let me explain that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u204	You are the one who was laughing at the beginning of the debate when we said that you have given it a lot of thought and that you seem to be fully behind it. You are defending it, as you are defending the abolition of dividend taxes and the reduction of profits tax. You do that with this point again. You seem to have given it a lot of thought. You studied on it. Then let's see it, we asked. But you were at the beginning laughing and saying that it would be in the debate. Now we are in the debate, and now I am asking you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u205	Again, I would never talk about raising healthcare pay as a gift to healthcare professionals. That's what they're working for. Entrepreneurs have to work hard, too, every day. That's what they pay taxes on. If Mrs Marijnissen is not clear that entrepreneurs are having a hard time right now, then I do not know what else to do. Then it's too late. There are entrepreneurs now who have to choose. Should I let people go? Should I postpone an investment so I may not be able to come along later, or should I make an investment now? Now you can see that the economy is mainly based on investments that companies themselves make. That's how they keep each other working. They spend money on it, and they pay taxes on it. We can spend that money again on education, police, defence and care. If they keep those investments in hand or need the resources to survive, then the economy will be harmed even more. We have therefore considered the following. How do we ensure that companies invest? They have to spend money for that first. They're not getting a present. We do not say: if you have a profit, you pay less tax on it. No, if they make investments in our economy that help other companies through, create jobs and keep people at work, they can deduct part of that investment from the payroll tax. You have to have people on duty and keep them working, otherwise it won't work. This is just a way to keep the economy running and the engine from getting bogged down. We're gonna make sure there's not too little tax revenue later because the economy is in the shit, I'm sorry, it's in the feces. Then there is not enough tax money for education, care and safety. Mrs Marijnissen keeps playing this against each other. She continues to talk about gifts, while it is about hard-working entrepreneurs who have to raise the money we need after that and rightly so for care, education and safety. Then you're stuck in caricatures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u206	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u207	It would be nice if Mr Dijkhoff could show the passion he has shown for defending the umpteenth tax rebate for business to fight for higher salaries for our people in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u208	This is making me sadder. If she thought it was my passion to stand up for business, she misunderstood. This stems from frustration that there are still parties here that are still focusing on the part that we spend and do not understand and respect the fact that we have to start earning. You can't just talk about entrepreneurs as if they're multinationals getting gifts. They're just hard-working people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u209	I thought I'd get the mike cleaned because you were done with your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u210	I was, but Mr Dijkhoff's comment provokes a new reaction, because that is, of course, total nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u211	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u212	Sure. We're gonna tell you what we're paying for. So Mr Dijkhoff makes it a caricature himself. He's accusing me of it, but he's doing it himself. We indicate that we can increase salaries in health care, education and our police officers if you make other choices. For example, it is indeed better to tax the large profits of companies. That is, for example, not doing some vague investment discount that nobody has seen the effect of. You shouldn't say I'm making a caricature. We'll also tell you where you can pay for it. In the end, it's about what choices you make, Mr. Dijkhoff. If you've appreciated all those caregivers so much and we've all been applauding so hard, you can't just send them away with half a bonus and a commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u213	It only makes me sad. I won't talk about caricatures anymore, because everyone can judge that for themselves. It's just bizarre to just focus on the side of publishing, where you just have to put together. I had hoped to build bridges in this area. I will still do that in my input, perhaps against better knowledge, but I will not charge all parties for this. We need to build bridges to understand that you're in this boat together. We shouldn't play entrepreneurs again against carers, or the other way around. I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u214	Mr Klaver has the floor, and then Mr Asscher and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u215	I understand Mr Marijnissen's question. Because we started the dividend tax. That was in 2 billion. That's what was fought hard for, and it went off the table. Then the 2 billion stayed, because it had to go to the world of big companies. Then it went to a reduction in the income tax. He left the table now. And exactly the same amount, that 2 billion, is now being put into a special investment scheme for those companies, when no one knows exactly what the effect is. What's the multiplier? What is every euro we put in it for employment? And what contribution does it make? Then the contrast with the care is great. It is said: okay, there may also be more money needed, but first a committee. So at business we reserve money first. The decision-making process and the basis for it will come later. And in the care we say: first we need a committee to see what the problem is and how we're gonna solve this, and then maybe we're gonna get some money. That's what we're working on. This is precisely what we are doing in this crisis where you no longer have all the money in the world and where we need to be very careful about how we spend structural money. You can choose what you do with $2 billion. We think you'd better take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u216	But it doesn't add up. Care doesn't look first. First, more than 2 billion will be allocated to a one-off bonus, which is now two-fold. Hundreds of millions are allocated to enable the work required by corona in healthcare. And rightly so, because you don't have time for efficiency tests at all. In any case, more than 92 billion go to health care every year. In doing so, you must send for loving care for those who need to be cared for, and effective care for those who need to be cured. That's what we're doing. So it just doesn't make sense what Mr. Klaver says. And what has been done in business? A reduction in the tax on profits, which is in the law. So you can vote against these investment things. That's fine, but then the reduction in the tax on profits goes on. It's possible. We have thought: that reduction in the tax on profits that is now in the law, if we do nothing, the rate is going to be for greater profits... And now we must not pretend again that this is all about billions of profits from multinationals. I always hear Mr Klaver say the next day that these companies do not pay a profit tax, so this will not help these big companies either. That is, by the way, a legitimate problem, and we are going to burn it down. It contains 700 million burdens, including by adopting a proposal from GroenLinks to reduce loss relief, and all kinds of things that are very good for some companies, but also too much of a way for other companies not to pay taxes that I think they would have to pay. So yes, we should not shout too loudly, certainly not for my group, but in this budget there is an increase of 700 million structuralally for the companies, so 700 million more than if there were no such budget. Then we looked at: this tax on profits, is that still logical? I think lowering the tax on profits makes sense for smaller companies. So that goes to first 2 tons and finally 4 tons of profit. You pay less taxes on that. For higher profits, the tax does not go down. Then I thought, "What can you do with that amount?" You can also spend it on the public case. You can buy things with it. I think this is wise. Private investment has stopped. For billions a year private investments are not made. I think it's wise to draw them out, that's the multiplier. A company may consider not to make an investment because it no longer has a buffer and otherwise it would break down with headwind and would have to fire its people. I think it would be wise to help such a company to make that investment anyway, so that such a company comes through the crisis, is better prepared for the future and can keep its people at work. That's the idea behind the investment deduction. I understand that Mr Klaver wants to ride his toy from first the dividend tax and then the high profit rates. It's now being re-edited and projected on something new. That's why I had to laugh at first. But with this, an SME can simply make an investment and subtract part of it. For example, he is rewarded for making that investment, which allows other companies to work again, against the payroll tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u217	Just for a second. The Prime Minister himself has often said that we have been promised that we will also give back to business. That was the $2 billion dividend tax. It then became a reduction in the tax on profits. It's off. And quite coincidentally, that exact amount is used for a scheme when we do not know what it is. We have always fought the battle here and said: you should not the big companies... At this time, you have to make sure it goes to the public sector. You shouldn't lower the burden there. But it seems like this promise is sacred. Over the last few days, when I was reading those pieces, I had the idea that the 2 billion for these big companies looks a lot like the Dutch musical soldier: every year you think he'll quit, but they'll go on anyway. That is what I think is going on here, and that is what we are discussing. It is all the too saillanter that there is no support. It may be that we are having a very substantive debate on this and Mr Dijkhoff convinces me that it is very focused on a special sector, that it is doing a great deal for sustainability or that it creates enormous employment. I have no idea, but what I do know from the past is that all such investment schemes are expanding enormously and are not actually having the intended effect we want. It only works as a basic narrowing down. Let me put it another way: it has the effect that companies will pay less tax. I actually think that this should be removed and that we should once again consider what we can best put that money into. I'd say care pay. But let me address Mr Dijkhoff. He says it has to go to the private sector. If you really want that money to pay off, that it's good for the private sector, use it to completely reduce the landlord's tax. You're sure the construction's going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u218	Then you're sure it doesn't help to help companies avoid bankruptcy. I've got some things to correct here, too. Because that 2 billion... Mr Klaver is going to believe in his own success and in that sense the comparison with Dutch soldier of Orange is correct. It wasn't 2 billion, it was 1.4. Then it became 1.9 by the improved economy. We had to cover that. Then the Vpb, the profit tax went up. Then, if you want to call it that, business paid its own gift: that dividend tax that was higher. That didn't happen at the time. What also does not happen is the total amount of relief. I have just said that the Ter Committee has given its opinions on how to prevent tax that actually has to be paid from being paid. We have taken on board a number of opinions, including a proposal from GroenLinks, which removes another 700 million burdens for businesses in this operation, on balance, in this budget. So what you're left with is the income tax that I think, even as a VVD'er: this is not the time to do the profit tax as planned, as already stated in the law. So we have to change it. We first looked at what is reasonable to do in the lower rate and then we looked at what remains. So that 2 billion is really a residual number of the calculation and not something that... You created that number yourself, because it was 1.4 and 1.9. Why I think it's wise to keep companies going is because we're gonna end up in another musical called Les Misérables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u219	I am impressed by the musical knowledge of Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u220	K3's coming, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u221	Olala! I am concerned that we do not know at all what this tax reduction is going to do. It seems as if the promise made by this cabinet about reducing the burden on business, which is 2 billion, keeps coming back every time. We are now at a time when our economy is going badly and we need to make a choice. That money could be used for the care sector, but it will not. The contrast really cannot be greater: setting up a committee, without adding money, and saying 'first let's see what the problems are and what solutions are in it', but for business we are just blowing 2.3 billion against it, if I include the VNO fund. It says literally: decision-making will take place later this year. Then we'll see if it solves a real problem. That's "money-seeking problem." I still have a whole list of problems that are just looking for money, whether it's care, housing, renting or climate change. That's impossible, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u222	It just doesn't add up. In the healthcare sector, a committee looks at where the real bottlenecks are, and in the meantime, without research, we are blowing up more than 2 billion with the bonuses. There's no extra money. First of all, we took back 3.3 billion from business in terms of burden relief, which is already in the law. We will then give a different interpretation, which will result in 700 million on balance, because of the changes and the reduction of the liquidation loss account. I don't know how you do it at home, but you throw the same gift in the shoe every time to get it unpacked and then you say: another gift! Of course, that doesn't make any sense. Firstly, it is not a gift, because it requires hard work. You have to make an investment yourself, a business expense, and then you can subtract it from the payroll tax. So you still have to employ people. What we've done is this. The law actually says: a relief of charges. We'll make it smaller. What we are still doing for business, we are also focusing even more on smaller profits and SMEs. So, yeah, it just doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u223	Finally, Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u224	Over the last 30 years, the tax on businesses has fallen from 35% to 25%. All the restorative measures that are being taken, which I see and which I welcome, are just not enough. Then give 2 billion that we have to those companies anyway, we can't. I would like to quote the Millions Note, because it simply says: 'Final decision-making will take place later this year, with a review of whether a problem is being solved and whether there is sufficient interest in it'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u225	That's for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u226	That's exactly the same thing. That's what I was talking about. This is about the 300 million for a fund, the solvency fund...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u227	One time, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u228	One time? 300 million remains 300 million. We can't use that money to lower the rents. It is said that we need to see if there is sufficient interest later this year. It is said that VNO-NCW took the initiative. This is just a farewell gift for Hans de Boer. We don't know what the effect is, while there are problems in this society that we do know what the effect is if you use that 300 million. That means less pressure in classrooms, that we can help people in care, that we can lower rents, that we can build more, that we can make more sustainable. But you're just choosing a farewell gift for Hans de Boer. VNO-NCW took this initiative. We still don't know if it's really gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u229	Last year we allocated a billion to housing and this year 200 million structuralally for the landlord's tax, that is to say every year. This 300 million is a one-time thing. Mr Klaver has spent that 300 million in his head six times now on all kinds of things, so that you think at home 'well, we can do a lot with that, with 300 million once'. What I like is that it is said from the business community that in order to help companies through it, they may need a loan. You shouldn't just look at the government. So we're gonna see if we can put money into that ourselves. Perhaps the government can contribute to this, so that you can attract companies through it and save jobs. Perhaps the government can continue to do so, so that these companies can pay taxes again with which you can finance the care. We are planning a budget here for one year, but not a future of one year. You should look beyond that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u230	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u231	In the Political Reviews after the first three hours, we have forgotten about the budget for next year. It's about the budget law of the House of Representatives. We're going to agree to the government spending a lot of money. Now a proposal is being made, and Mr Dijkhoff is not going to deal with that in order to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u232	I'm just explaining!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u233	A proposal is being made to put 300 million into a fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u234	Mr. Chairman. I object to this...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u235	That money we have to accord...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u236	... because I'm just explaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u237	Don't talk through it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u238	That's what we have to agree to here. Then it says that the precise decision-making will have to take place later this autumn because we need to look at whether this fund really solves a problem and whether there is sufficient interest. I am concerned that if the business community literally asks for it, the big lobby of the business community says: can we have money? We give it and it's said: by the way, we'll see if it gets anything later. The contrast with how we deal with care could not be greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u239	First of all... I just explained what this is for, so I'll go into it. Second. After this week, we don't agree on anything at all, for less than a euro. This will come in the weeks after that with the budgets and the Tax Plan. Third. When you talk to employers, it's a lobby. "Lobbycracy," Mr. Klaver called it. Every debate in which a minister is present in trade union K, he is told by your party and the other parties that he must certainly talk to the trade unions. I totally agree with that. It's called "searching for support from employers and employees" and "poldering." If that is done and there has been poldering and emergency packages, support packages and budgets have been scanned by both trade unions and employers, then you should not come here and say: scandalously, you have spoken to the employers! They don't lobby as you describe them. The last time I was lobbied for a major multinational was for Philips with that ventilation equipment from America. That was done by Mr Klaver, here in the Chamber. That's the last time I've been lobbied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u240	Let me say straight away that I would like to try to do something else about the debate. I'd really appreciate it if we could do something. I do know that I feel differently from the VVD, but it would be quite good, because there is a huge problem, Mr Dijkhoff talked about it too, because a lot of people have lost their jobs. That number is increasing further. I think that's what we need to talk about. In this context, I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff how many jobs this proposed scheme will create. In other words, if we were to come up with proposals that would bring more work, would it be possible for the VVD to discuss spending the money for this? It has also been included in the budget as a crisis measure. I think that's our biggest assignment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u241	I do look at that differently. As with the support packages, the NOW and the Tozo, you don't know in advance how many jobs this will take and you don't know in advance at what time those jobs will be arranged. There are, of course, ways to arrange a lot more jobs in the short term, namely by simply giving money and saying: here, this is your government salary and we call it "a job." What I want is that the economy itself can adapt and that there is room for investment, because you know that the times of that time are not coming back. So I don't expect you to be able to estimate in advance that in any case with the coronapandemic and the changes that it causes, how many jobs you save with it. That is not the instrument either, and that is not why we have turned the tax relief on profits into an investment diversion that you can deduct from the wage tax. 'Cause that's what we did, and that's how I see this. We have not invented any new money that came from the budget or has been cut to make a job investment scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u242	Mr Dijkhoff is still reacting a little bit in the groove of the debate on this subject. I can understand why you're trying to come up with proposals to do something about that. My question was: would you, given the huge problem of so many people losing their jobs in the short term? In principle, that seems to me to be some kind of question to which you should answer yes if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u243	Yes, I know that, but Mr Asscher is not the first. Such an answer to his question always becomes "saved ash" and then you get it back. This is usually accompanied by an expectation later on. I am prepared to talk about everything, but Mr Asscher is not asking for it to be open. If there's a brilliant plan to save jobs, we can look at that. Mr Asscher also links it to not doing something that I now want to radiate to companies that we are going to do. So there is a difference between looking at plans that cost money to save jobs and immediately linking them to not doing this. That's why I'm making reservations. Otherwise I would say: yes, I would like to look at such a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u244	In his speech, Mr Dijkhoff just started talking about building bridges and said that we should do it together. But now he's actually saying, when Asscher's plan comes, I don't trust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u245	No, definitely not. Your plans are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u246	That's what it sounded like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u247	I have so much faith in you that I also have an idea of what is happening to my own words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u248	You might as well be a little... It's not the first time you've been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u249	No, that's why. I've heard back that "gambling" of the dividend 26 times. That's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u250	That's true, yes. You're a lot more careful. But now I think we are talking about something that could be a common task, also from the perspective of your party, the VVD, and of my party, the Labour Party. We want to save jobs, and we want to keep people working. I will come up with concrete proposals later and then I understand all the caution, but the question was: is it possible to discuss this large amount of money? Because this is 2 billion, of which we have indeed not seen the justification; that you are enthusiastic about it is not immediately decisive to me...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u251	I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u252	If we come up with plans that create more jobs, would you be willing to talk about that? That is the question, because then we also know a little about what this debate is like. Because if it's really just "we want to build bridges, we want to work together, and that means you can applaud," I don't think that's the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u253	Definitely not. The other way around, of course, is not that bridges are being built, which means, when I'm over those bridges, I have to burn my own bridges, which I myself like. That is a bit of a question at this point. To the second part of Mr Asscher's question, I am sure that if there are plans that can help even better than the packages we already have to save jobs, then I would like to look at them. I myself do not associate that with the idea that, if that costs money, it should be paid out of changing or abandoning a specific measure which I also think and believe is very useful and is also fair to enterprising Dutch people, ordinary entrepreneurs and SMEs, so the idea is that if you do not do something they had expected, then something else will do, even if it is less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u254	It is indeed a bit difficult to debate about that business-related investment discount if you do not exactly have the basis. Mr Asscher asked for that support at the beginning. I think Mr Dijkhoff knows a little bit more about this than the people in the opposition. He's excited about that. He indicated that he really wants to do something for that, because companies are just having a hard time. But small entrepreneurs, especiallyzzp'ers, are also having a hard time and have to bleed. Why does the cabinet choose to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u255	I don't see exactly how they're gonna bleed. The zzp'er was once very well thought out: you can undertake without a lot of administrative burdens or without having to set up a bv. Over the years, that group has been widened. In the category zzp there are now very different people with different views on their own work. There are real entrepreneurs in it and there are people who have agreed with their employer to quit their service and become self-employed so that they have to do a night shift less. So that's a tricky group. While there is actually no right to a safety net forzzp'ers, we have now, quite rightly, set up the Tozo. That's a safety net. Azzp'er who now falls back on his income can claim a compensation. Well, there are conditions to that. That's not nice for everyone, but it's about something you weren't entitled to and what's now created. That's what I think: you don't leave people in the cold. It can always be bigger. You can always have that wish, or you can always make that plea, but I don't think we leave people in the cold with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u256	It'll happen. That happens, for example, with the taxi drivers. I can imagine that Mr Dijkhoff himself has a car with a driver and is not very often in a taxi, but if you are in a taxi, you can see that taxi drivers have had to do their best to be covered by the Tozo and the NOW, the concession for entrepreneurs. At first, they didn't even qualify for it. They also had to skip hugely because they couldn't transport three guests because of the demands that were made in view of the health crisis we had. That's why they couldn't bring more people. They were really limited. And it is precisely in this crisis that this cabinet chooses to take away €800 next year. I just don't understand that. If you say "all hands on deck," it is €800 sure for a group that often hasn't chosen... A taxi driver makes twelve, sometimes fourteen, fifteen hours a day to make just a little money. Otherwise, it just doesn't pay at all. I can see Mr Dijkhoff's point of principle in itself, but why at this time, why break down at this very moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u257	Then you're gonna have to pay for that self-employed deduction. I get that. I agree with Mr Azarkan that in the beginning it was really looking for support packages and that there have been groups of entrepreneurs who have been in real uncertainty longer than other entrepreneurs: were they under or not under, what were the conditions and what could they do to make a little more bread? The group mentioned by Mr Azarkan did indeed have to help us with motions: pushing and pulling; it was not immediately clear. Mr Azarkan is right about that. The second point is the self-employed deduction. Honestly, you should be structuralally solving that. For that you have to offer a real solution; let me put it this way. I just mentioned the category ofzzp'ers in which there are different types of people. If you look at the extremes, you can see that they have absolutely nothing to do with each other: how do they do their work, how do they run their business, do they have the feeling that "I would rather have been employed, but it was either buy a van or lease it and deliver packages each or no longer have a job"? So that category has become too big. What you really need to do is go through with it in one go. The Borstlap Committee gave an opinion on this. The protection must be wider, but it must be more sober in my view, otherwise you cannot bring it to bear. Then there are other things: if you do hire someone, you should not be stuck as an entrepreneur. Actually, you should do that in one big move, politically wide. My assessment and my sounding are that there's no room for the election to do this wide-rangingly here. So what we've done now is take a step. But we compensate for that financially by reducing the burden. In the first few years, the balance of the pockets goes well; the self-employed do not make it any worse. After that there really needs to be a solution that separates the chaff from the wheat and realizes various facilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u258	That may be the somewhat technocratic story, but the outcome is that this is the group that is most deteriorating. You can tell by the Nibud's numbers. I just don't think it's explaining that you're doing that right now. I understand that you want to change it structurally and that you want to tackle the problem. I get that, but you're doing that right now in the middle of one of the biggest crises... He himself indicated: this is the biggest crisis in my life; have we been able to foresee this? Well, he's a little younger than me, but I've never seen that before. Right now you're just telling some of thezzp'ers that it's really hard and just really has to make ends meet: I'm just subtracting €800 from the self-employed. I just don't think I can explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u259	What self-employed persons do is offset in the first years by other tax measures. There is therefore no possibility of a decline in this area. We really looked into that. There are other reliefs, which apply not only to the self-employed, but also, of course, wider ones, which compensate for that effect and even benefit others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u260	50PLUS is in any case pleased that this cabinet has learned from the previous crisis. The cabinet has not been shot in austerity mode, but has gone full for making investments. That's good. Wopke and Wiebes' fund contains 20 billion. It sounds, at least with us, like it's just an ATM. I would like to have the VVD's reaction to that. We're giving it away. It's not up to us here in the Chamber. We're not discussing where that money is going. We'll put that away from a group of outsiders. Why does the VVD think that's a good idea?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u261	This is not going to be such a nice self-reflection of our institution, but I think we have seen in the past that investment funds that are politically easy to access are an attractive pot to solve political problems. Nothing human is weird for us politicians, in a pinching, hot August meeting where the coalition gets together easier to spend even more. This money will not be spent on investments with a short path from investment to economic growth, more tax revenues and therefore more money for the public sector. In the past, things have been paid out that you can say a lot of positive things about, but not that it was a real investment in strengthening the economy and in the future, so that we can earn money, raise taxes and have a strong public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u262	When I look at the coalition parties, I can just imagine. But there are other parties in this Chamber. Wouldn't this be exactly the time to stick out that hand and talk to each other about what would help the Netherlands? It is a question of what investments are needed. Where could a lot of jobs go? How could we do that to each other? Why wasn't that chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u263	I think you can always have that discussion here and that it is not up to the parties in this coalition, but that the past teaches that every human being is sensitive to it. You can still have that discussion here. But you have to stop being the first to know how wise an investment is for the economy and for our earning ability in the future. It is a question of whether you will have enough, including care, education and safety. Otherwise, you run the risk of putting your own preferences in such an investment fund too quickly. However, in the end it will only happen this way if we as a Chamber decide that we want it to be so. I don't think there'll be any discussion about it. The question is whether you can make those decisions without advice and that kind of thing. I think it's okay if we go out every year as a room for a day to look back on those investments. How do they walk? Was that wise? What's on the schedule? We can certainly pass that on to the cabinet. I can also imagine that there are investments that you might get a wonderful report for, but we all say we're not going to do that. Behind you I see Mrs. Ouwehand sitting. Imagine the mink breeding being booming business. I just feel like we're not gonna get back in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u264	I might have had one last point. How are the coalition parties and this cabinet going to make sure we don't get toys from a group of civil servants who think "o, that's fun"? How can we check whether this money is being spent properly, so that it actually creates jobs and makes the Netherlands better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u265	I think we've been trying to set it up, so has the cabinet, that there are checks-and-balances and that no one can just ride anything in between. You have political responsibility. There's official advice. And there is not one place the Chamber can say at once: ignore the advice; do it anyway. The Chamber can say that and a cabinet can always find resources elsewhere, but in the end you always have the last word and the budget right here. You can also raise entire funds, one stone, and spend the money on something else. You're always gonna keep that. I don't think that's wise. In my view, it is precisely a careful combination of administration, cabinet, executive and democratic control here, with a lot of consultation, but no one can simply ignore the rest and say: spend it on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u266	Rounding up. In any case, I would like to say that we are sceptical. We are very critical, because the results from the past do not show that we have been very good at it. We would very much like to consider whether these things have an added value for the Netherlands. Are they gonna make us better? Is it sustainable? But in any case, does it also generate a great deal of employment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u267	Mr Segers. And I also see Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u268	I'd like to go back to the labour market. But if Mrs Ouwehand wishes to say something about the growth fund, she may, as far as I am concerned, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u269	I was quiet for a moment, because I was actually impressed by Mr Dijkhoff's exorcism and the moment of reflection. Because he actually said, "You can leave that growth fund to us, in those backrooms, but we don't trust ourselves. So please come with a committee that does sensible things with it, because we're making a pot of it." I think that's valuable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u270	So much for the compliment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u271	Not even. Not even, because I've decided to start positive. Let's have a nice day, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u272	Very nice, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u273	The trouble's still coming. I would like to call on Mr Dijkhoff not to give up. We are not going to conclude here with each other that we politicians, I am particularly looking at the coalition parties and a number of others have so little backbone when it comes to spending 20 billion on what would really be good for the Netherlands? What economy is sustainable, given the capacity of the earth and social justice, which has gone completely wrong? We need a little more confidence and a little more reflection, because I think we politicians have been elected to do this on behalf of the people. We cannot put that on a committee that does not have to answer to anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u274	When I look at Mrs Ouwehand's clothes, it sounds like an offer I can't refuse, but the intimidation factor is decreasing slightly because I don't expect her to find a horse's head in my bed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u275	Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u276	That's why. I partly agree with Mrs Ouwehand. Of course, there are also frameworks. It's not: if anyone has a nice proposal, give them the money. Nor should it prevent things such as climate policy, to name but one. Such an investment cannot come from such a fund at all, because then you go against your policy. I think you should give a very long democratic direction to the cabinet here, but in the end we are talking about very specific choices for projects and perhaps for companies that have applied for them. Perhaps these are two infrastructure projects competing with each other, or are two different regions. Perhaps there is a feeling that regions need to be compensated, because every time there is not the economic growth there when you make an investment somewhere. I can imagine you doing that politically, but you shouldn't do that from that fund. That fund should really be reserved for... We say to next generations, "We borrow money from your name. We do so so that you can pay it back more easily and more easily collect money from the taxes for care, education and safety." Then you must also have a direct link and have a guarantee that it will be spent on it. If you think there is something to compensate for politically, or if there are other important valuable things that do not have to do with the economy, you have to pay it from other means. Then you have to choose to do so. So I wouldn't let it go entirely, but in this system we are dealing with the main points. In the project choices I would create a little more distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u277	Again, appreciation for that honest moment of reflection. But we have to pull this through. This is very fundamental. We have been chosen to make these considerations. That's how it works here. Then it can't be that politicians are afraid of how their own supporters react, because it's not easy to explain. We have to make that weighting. This is the second time it's happened in this cabinet period. So you should be ashamed if you need a commission to tell you what you actually know. We needed Remkes, while the Ministry of LNV has meteorological reports on how to do with agriculture and nature and how to make sure that the building doesn't stop because of the nitrogen problems. We already knew. The fact that you have to outsource that to a committee, because you don't have the courage, the guts, the backbone... I don't know what's missing in those backrooms...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u278	You were supposed to start positive today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u279	That's right. It was maybe 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u280	It's the end of the beginning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u281	But you know that about me. I'd really like us to get off that reflex. We have to answer here about the choices we make, but the most important thing is that we dare to make those choices with the facts that are just on the table. This is true of the nitrogen crisis, as is the case of climate policy, and certainly of an investment fund, because we have a responsibility here to make responsible choices for the future of the Netherlands. You can't outsource that to a commission.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u282	I don't see it that way. I do not feel that we have spent decisions on those committees. These committees give insights and new weighting and advice, but in the end we are the ones who have to make the decisions. Every day, when I'm driving on the highway, I'm reminded of a decision I made myself, which is to lower the speed limit. That's a little less pleasant than the years before, when I was reminded every day of a decision I liked better. So I do not have the idea that we ourselves did not explain why, that we ourselves did not make and explain that choice. I haven't heard myself or a partymate say anything: it's because of Johan Remkes. He is also a member of the party, so that is not a good thing either, but I think we ourselves have explained in detail why we made that decision. A committee can help, but it can never replace it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u283	My even more annoying questions about the nitrogen decisions are coming because I expect Mr Dijkhoff to say something about these plans in his speech...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u284	Yeah, well, not anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u285	...that make no housing possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u286	Let me come back to a comment on the labour market. Mr Dijkhoff said: something should be done there; I do not see that happening now, but a small step is being taken. The interesting thing about this time is that liberalism is being challenged from all sides. That is a bit of the fate of the biggest party, but perhaps also the fate of a movement that has left its mark on this society very much. The effect on the labour market has actually been the loss of Philips, which Mr Dijkhoff described very graphically last year, the Philips of his grandfather and his mother, who could study as a result. If I recall that image again, what would Mr Dijkhoff want in the ideal case to go back to the Philips of that time, which also produced a very nice sports association?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u287	Sure. That is a blessing of liberalism, that everyone feels uninhibited to express his opinion and to express criticism, including of the incumbent power, without a muddle in between saying: would you do that, boys? That criticism is the result of that. Furthermore, many things are no longer the same as in that society of the past. Last year I highlighted the positive side of that society. I could have spent some time too, but that is not in my nature, on the negative side, to the family members who had to leave under the yoke of the church, to my grandmother, who was always forced by the church to do a little more reproduction, while she herself thought after ten children: it is enough. Liberalism, which was unleashed after that, has done much good to self-determination, including for women, and to the position of homosexuals. So let us not give too one-sided a picture of the development since the period I described last year. I'd think it's ideal if we made a system. We've now made three attempts to do that, which are stranded... where you choose in advance and say, "I'm an entrepreneur. I'm a real entrepreneur. That's what I'm deliberately choosing. I'm taking chances. I'm either hiring people or not. I don't want administrative burdens right away as if I'm a huge company, but I'm really an entrepreneur and I'm taking those risks. I don't cover my ass, and I understand, even at a pandemic, that if it doesn't work out, there's no Tozo for me." On the other hand, we should not have that in the same category also include people who, as I described earlier, actually say: "I only belong because I am an entrepreneur of a boss... Oh sorry, employer, no, client." You know, those conversations. These people know for themselves: you don't feel like an entrepreneur and you're not an entrepreneur. Too often we see that that image of that group is used to push the whole category ofzzp'ers into something, whereas traditionally there are a lot of entrepreneurs in it who say: "I didn't ask for that. Don't bother me with that compulsion and patronizing; I deliberately choose this. Just let me say something that I choose to do this consciously and then just let me do my things the way I want to. My hourly rate is high enough, I'm sensible enough and I'm aware of the consequences. This is how I want to do it." I want these groups to be separated and we can make a fair policy on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u288	Liberalism is actually divided into a plea for personal freedoms, such as the liberation of Mr Dijkhoff's grandmother. These are personal freedoms that I am grateful for myself. Then there is another way of looking at man as a rationally self-reliant being, who as a kind of gay economist can always make his choices in freedom and with all understanding. Then I look again at that image of Philips as a very large employer with a great social responsibility. That's actually shriveled up. Philips has become much smaller. It's mostly a name, with a lot of subcontractors. That is not the victory of liberalism ever sung by Mr Dijkhoff. That is not the outcome of the victory of liberalism, which has produced something very beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u289	Mr Segers now comes to what is really the essence for me. That is not the point whether liberalism works or not, because liberalism assumes that if you release it, people will choose what social contexts they operate in. I heard Minister De Jonge say: you can't really be free until you're united and connected. I think that it is only when that is achieved in freedom that you can truly live together and be connected. I think the biggest switch you have to make is that the gay economist, that economical scientific description of man, was of temporary use because we couldn't measure and see anymore. We didn't have any more insights, except philosophies and theories about how people work. So for me, the problem is not liberalism. For me, the problem is that you reduce man to a calculating human being. Through these two movements within liberalism we have had some discussions to process. I've never assumed the overcalculating rational thinking man. I've made a lot of decisions that I can very well explain rationally. I explained it afterwards. That started somewhere in me. Most of the decisions people make before they realize. Fortunately, this scientific knowledge is becoming ever wider, so you can say: we go from econ to human. We know what drives people, and these are not just economic incentives. I have an example that I'm giving away: if you put two pieces of tape on the floor with a foot and a half in between, you're gonna stand on it. Then I don't have to say anything. You feel it; you do. There's a lot more the crux there. So my liberal image of man has not changed; the image of how a man works is becoming more and more complete through knowledge and science and its progress. So that's what you have to deal with politically and socially. You can't say to yourself: yes, but that doesn't fit in my models, so I'm just gonna stick with the models. Until now, Mr Segers has heard me present micro-examples in all kinds of consultation, because I wonder: fun such a model, but what does it do with man? And a human doesn't react like that. A human being isn't gonna trample his whole house to save three tens a year. That would be very rational. That's what the gay economist does. I might know four.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u290	Who are they? Is that Mr Wiebes or is that...? Yeah, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u291	They're super average engineers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u292	I'm gonna try to make it a little more practical. The interesting thing is that Mr Dijkhoff, even the challenger of liberalism, is in any case prepared to take a critical look at what it has produced, for example in relation to the labour market. I understand him in a political sense. He says that with the report that is on the table we must now try to take a step forward and reduce the gap between people with fixed contracts and people with flexible contracts. And yet: hasn't this corona crisis learned that this independence is indeed not so bad? Of course, that is true for many more people, but certainly for those who are entirely handed over to themselves, who have no disability insurance and no pension structure, who have been thrown back on their own and who really have to go to the government with the hat and be very grateful that they live in this country and that they can be paid at the minimum social level. In a political sense, I understand that you want to take a step from both sides, but is it not obvious that we need to take the first step on that flexible side in order to give them more clarity and certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u293	I'm sure there's a lesson. I think that after the corona crisis everyone may also make different decisions, that the risks will be assessed differently. That is why I would also like them to have the option, at lower costs, of insuring and covering themselves and building up pensions. It has also taught me that in such a situation a great deal of legal protection for workers is based on an image that I actually had in mind when I followed the social law field: you have a large and powerful company and a small, vulnerable employee. However, in the society in which we are now, there are also a lot of small vulnerable entrepreneurs with vulnerable workers. The image of the protection you have invented and which I really understand when you stand at the gates of large companies and you look at dividends, profits and investors all over the world, doesn't translate very well when it comes to small entrepreneurs who are now so stuck that, as much as they don't want to say goodbye to someone, they have to say goodbye to everyone and also to their own livelihood. So I see a vulnerability on that side, too. I would like to solve it in one move... Yeah, solving might be too much to ask, but improving.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u294	Mr Segers, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u295	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u296	Very briefly, because the interruptions are getting longer and the answers are getting longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u297	Yeah, I'm sorry, but we're talking about a fascinating subject, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u298	Sure, everything's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u299	If you see that the risks are so passed on to vulnerable individuals who are indeedzzp'er and if you see that the difference between a normal salary and a top salary has become so much bigger, then my heartfelt call is to first look at the most vulnerable in that uncertainty. And then we'll talk later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u300	That wasn't really a question. I see Mr Asscher now at the interrupting microphone. We've been at it for almost an hour now. Mr Dijkhoff spoke for almost three minutes, and otherwise it was all interruptions. That's what I was gonna say. A brief interruption, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u301	Mr Dijkhoff refers to the protection of workers, and that is what my question is about. In two weeks, the old support package will expire. The cabinet has put forward a proposal for a new support package. I am concerned that, because that is where the dismissal penalty has been taken out and that arrangement is being brought down, that it will be a sign for companies, big and small, to start firing their people, whether they like it or not. That's what I'm worried about. We would like to see a guarantee of work for the people in those supported companies. That's not the same as a job guarantee, because you don't necessarily keep your own job, but it does mean that you don't send people to benefits and say "get retrained," but that you help people get from one job to another. That's not gonna happen now. Is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to talk to me about adding this to this support package? Because I think that is essential in this uncertain time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u302	Here's another dilemma. Some companies won't make it either. We also ask companies: look critically if you should not do anything else. Sometimes saying goodbye to a few employees, which is painful enough, is the way to keep the jobs of the rest. Then I think that with those workers who have completely lost their jobs they should be treated carefully, I do not know if I understand correctly, but I also see a decreasing number of jobs. A one-on-one-work guarantee may be something other than a job guarantee; I am not so familiar with it yet. From the image that Mr Asscher sketches of "go ahead and report to the UWV and call the LOI or something," I say: not that. I think that this time calls for more active helping people towards at least the prospect of another job, because we also have the idea that skills are changing and changes in the economy are going on, so you can't say, "Wait a minute, your old job will be available again." So I definitely want to talk about it but I'm not sure yet whether or not the word guarantee...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u303	The big difference is whether people are fired. One of my lessons from the previous crisis is how difficult it is for those people to intervene, even though they have all kinds of skills and talents. Or people have a contract of employment, are employed and are helped from that situation to another job. Surely a small employer can never do that alone. You're gonna need some help with that. There's gonna have to be education. Then you need a receiving employer. But if we don't put that in that package now, if we don't give those workers that claim, then we may have spent up to 100 billion on aid, but we still abandoned those people. Then we paid all that money and those jobs are gone. So the question is whether you dare to choose... that's also a change in social security and how we deal with the position of employees... to give those people the guarantee now and work on that, as happens with the KLM in a number of stewardesses... you have to call that to say correctly cabin crew... employees with their well-being from a contract are being trained to another job rather than get into a benefit situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u304	There will of course be all kinds of ifs and buts in my head, which I will not mention now, because we will not have that conversation right now. I think it's good to continue the conversation about it and find a way to better deal with the perspective of employees. 'Cause it's no good to anyone if months are lost. I also hear people who report to the UWV with a business plan and then get to hear: "Business plan, that's not for six weeks, dude, take it easy." That's not the mentality you need. On the other hand, I would like to make a few reservations about the fact that I do not want the problem to continue, especially for the small employer, if the route is successful but does not lead to a new job. That employer must be able to assume that he can move forward with the rest of the people he wants to keep in service. Those are the things that belong in the conversation and is not a reason to say in advance: there is no talking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u305	Good. Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u306	Finally. A conversation is good, but in two weeks the support package will end. I think we should settle this for those workers, with all due understanding of the fact that a small employer can be asked less than a large one. It's about that claim for the employees. So we will make concrete proposals. Then I hope that we can now agree on it so that it will come in time for those workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u307	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u308	Mr. Chairman. Before the interruptions, I talked about getting better, getting higher than ever before and how to do it. I still think we should do that together and with patience. Patience came to me a little slow today, I'll be honest. I also think, people at home, that you can expect us to lead the way here in The Hague. That we are having the discussions here about the role of market and government, but not sticking to it. And at the end of the debate, as Mr Asscher actually pointed out, it is also time to show what we will then choose and what we will do now to help each other in the middle of the crisis. And what we do to make your future look good. When people look now, I say, if you're unlucky, we can't. Then you see us here just arguing for two days and we're just gonna blame each other and turn people against each other. I think we've seen that, too. And then you might get the feeling: I'll take care of it myself, because I don't need it from those people in The Hague. If we do our job right, you'll still hear big differences. We look at the world differently. That's what people do at home. Then you also see us banging our fist on the table and passionately talking about and fighting for what we believe in. But then you will also see that we look each other up when we agree and that we emphasize each other's strengths. Let me give you an example. As a liberal, as a VVD man, I will say to you: we cannot live in this beautiful country without a strong government. We can't do without agents keeping us safe, not without soldiers protecting us, not without nurses taking care of us and not without teachers making us smarter. And of course, those aren't people who do all that voluntarily. They should be able to make a good living from that. That is why we here in the Chamber have so many fights about money, when it is, of course, a lot more complex. So I understand that parties are very enthusiastically saying that more money needs to be given to care, to education, to police and military. And I'd really like to, but I'm more careful about how much money we have to add now. I'll be honest with you about that. Anyway, we're actually talking about the more fun part, spending the money. We can talk about that all day, but it has to be earned first. So together we have to make sure that people with their own company, or those who work there, have the space to work together all that money, that tax money, first. So, in this corona crisis, we also have to spend money to help entrepreneurs get through it, to try to get more people to keep their jobs, not more companies to go bankrupt and to work there if you want. To make sure you have a better chance of making money. Not that the money is so important, but because you can do things with it again, you can spend money on things that matter to you. To your own family, to your own home, to your own food, to your own dreams and to your own happiness. But also together on our health, safety and smartness. Okay, that last one's called tax, of course. That is actually not such a smart word at all, because that immediately sounds very annoying: "tax." But the moment you get it back in the form of a diploma or protection or healing, it might feel like a reward. Anyway, that's all for later. Now it's a crisis, and now we're all a little confused. And it just finally went a little nice again. If that's the feeling you have right now, I can imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u309	I'd like to suggest you move on and then you'll have the opportunity, Mr. Klaver. I also see Mrs Marijnissen and I see Mr Van der Staaij. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u310	I can imagine that, because when I was growing up, I also lived in a time when paradise seemed to have arrived. Okay, when I was born in 1981, there was a deep crisis, but if you're a baby with a sweet mother and father, you won't notice a thing. We're going to 1988. I was 7 and the Netherlands won the European Football Championship. That is what this year was supposed to be. And in 1988 PSV won the Europacup. We now know him as Champions League. Really, PSV won the Champions League. I told you, it seemed like paradise had arrived. That's when 1989 came. We smashed the Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain fell. The Cold War was over. A threat of violence fell from us in the West and in the East they were given freedom that they had hitherto only dreamed of. The years after that, the nineties, were actually very cheerful. The world was getting more and more free. The world was getting richer. Mobile phones, computers, internet: every year checkout, more jobs every year, more work and every year cool new things, including for me. I used to have a paper route. Then I bought a stereo tower. Then I went to clean up and bought computer parts. That's what I built a computer of myself. I was pretty good at that, though I say it myself, except for the one time when it caught on fire because I had a cable wrongly connected. It happens. There was also a modem in the house. For lovers: a 28K8. And after a lot of squeaking and beeping, you could slowly connect with other people around the world, in just texts and pixels: internet. 1998, in the middle of those great years I was 17 years old I finished my final exam and I had a cell phone. I thought that was really cool. A Philips Fizz, for the lover. I shared that with my father. No one knows why that seemed like a good idea. Especially when a girl called one day my dad had that phone on him. I never heard from her again. I went to college, and I didn't actually get on a plane until then. To Scotland, not very far, but still: on a plane. Then I went to America to study for a while in Hartford. Hartford and not Harvard. How I talk, you don't know the difference; that's the advantage. Every year the world grew larger, more freer, richer. It was fantastic and it actually went pretty well. Don't do anything about it. It was also the years in which Hans Teeuwen sang: "I'm fine, I have nothing to complain about. Don't bullshit me with all these tough questions. I'm fine, I'm fine. I have everything I want: I am a Sunday child." And then I turned 20. Then the end of your youth will come into sight, but in that year, unfortunately, it also stopped with the great optimism in the world. The carelessness of my generation came to an end in one stone on September 11, 2001. For those who still doubted it, the following year followed the assassination attempt on Pim Fortuyn. And another blow in 2004, with the assassination of Theo van Gogh. I can tell you: I was also very confused for a while, and most adults with me. For many, it was also the worst blow we had ever experienced. It all went just as well and then bam, at one stroke it wasn't all that way anymore. What we're going through with corona is different in a lot of ways. You could then hug your grandmother and grandmother; daily life wasn't as turned upside down as it is now. But I do feel the same kind of confusion and shock. Even then I felt that things after that wouldn't be the same as before, but also the feeling that no one knew exactly how. The more firmly someone shouted that he knew exactly, the less I trusted it. So I don't know exactly how things will be different from what they were. I can't explain exactly what we're gonna do and what it looks like. I don't have a sharp picture of the future, but I do have an idea. An idea of things that could be different, but also better. Ordinary, humble people at home call that "an idea." Here in The Hague, we call that "vision." Whatever you call it, I don't care if you work on it. I would like to discuss three things that I hope we can make better, that you will say later: yes, this works; that they started doing in 2020. Fair trade, strong government and less dependence. By fair trade, I mean standing up for our own entrepreneurs. Make sure you get a fair chance when you start a business, that you don't break because someone else cheats, because your stuff has to be approved, safe and taxed, while your customer can also order similar items from his phone unsafely over the internet, cheap. Or that local newspapers and websites will not actually be there anymore, because no one advertises in them anymore, so you can only go to Google or Facebook. That's gotta be better. If you make money here, you're gonna have to pay taxes here, too, and you're gonna have to follow our rules. If you've grown so big that there's no room for others, then you need to make room. If our companies in another country are not allowed to make money in a fair manner, then neither should their companies here. It's not gonna happen on its own. For that, you need the second point I want to mention: a strong government. A strong government is harder than it sounds. A big government is very easy. High taxes, a lot of civil servants, lots of forms, lots of plans, lots of stuff. A big government works a bit like Candy Crush or Tetris. Something happens and you try to stuff it in such a way that it fits the premeditated line. Then it's gone for you. But a strong government doesn't rely on a fixed system or levels. He's not trying to push a problem into one of the existing booths. He understands that the possibilities in practice are endless. A strong government is more like Minecraft, a game where you don't have to do something exactly like this to get ahead, but where you can think together with others what you want to achieve and then figure out how to do it best. So you start from what you want as a result, not from what the rules are and what they force you to do. A strong government works the same way. He understands that people and situations are never exactly the same. They don't mind differences as much as the outcome is fair, instead of putting everyone in a booth and failing in the same way. So such a strong government is also primarily engaged in execution, solving the problem that you see in front of you with more freedom for the player, in this case often the official, to solve the problem creatively. Such a strong government has rules, just like any game, but they're not dominant. They're not the first thing you use to accomplish anything. There are a lot of ways to get something done. We can see that now with the corona control. I already mentioned it. Two pieces of tape on the floor with a foot and a half: you stand on it and it's fixed. That works much better than waving the rules and giving a sermon every 15 minutes. People who make games and also scientists I've been talking about it with Mr Segers already know that. If you want someone to do something, make it as easy as possible to do it. A sense of reward if you do the right thing is much stronger than a rule that threatens with punishment if you do it wrong. They got that right with Candy Crush and Tetris. If you are wondering whether I myself play a lot of Minecraft and what my username is: no, unfortunately, I never play that. Open world games make me nervous. If I'm gonna play it once, I just want an overview and a clear mission, so I'm gonna stick to Assassin's Creed. I can tell a whole story about the beautiful design of that game, which is historically and culturally sound, that you can wander through the heydays of ancient Greece, Rome, Florence, Paris, London and Egypt, that you can zoom in on works of art and that you can talk to Machiavelli. That is all true, but I will be very honest: after a long week in The Hague with the colleagues here, I have the occasional need to crush an enemy. Assassin's Creed is a series of games that take you to the hard side of history and man. Unfortunately, that hard side will still be there in the future. That brings me to the third point that has to be changed. I want us to be less dependent in the world. Less dependent on America as a protector, so in Europe we will have to strengthen our own armies. Less dependent on China and India, which now make almost all medicines and medical devices for us. Make crucial things in Europe and make sure that you can make other things yourself very quickly if something goes wrong, like now with corona. I want us to be less dependent on the technology we use every day that dominates our lives. I don't want that technology to be designed all the time in countries that look very differently at privacy, for example, than we do. We must invest ourselves in the technology that determines our future, so that our values determine what it looks like. I also want us to be less dependent on the Middle East and Russia, where we are now buying our energy. I want us to make much more of our own energy. It must, of course, be sustainable: wind, sun, green hydrogen and certainly nuclear energy. I actually hope that we can get out of the political trenches on this subject. It's not nuclear power against wind or sun. You need it all. It's not gonna fit otherwise, literally, in our little country. I have not yet seen a realistic plan to have clean electricity without nuclear power in 2050. I will table a motion on this tomorrow. I hope that the Chamber will instruct the Cabinet to take a step further and actively examine what is needed to seduce parties in the Netherlands to continue with nuclear energy. And that may cost money. I'd rather do that than keep sending bins of money to Arab countries and Russia. These are three ideas I have to make things better. Fair trade, so there'll be a chance for you to get a job or a business of your own. A strong government that provides honesty and looks at you and your problem, instead of rules and the system. And less dependence, so that we can decide together on the place of the Netherlands in Europe and in the world, not America, China, Russia or the Middle East. I hope you like these ideas. It doesn't make it any less confusing today and tomorrow, but I hope it will make it feel that it can be better later, that you look back and think: between all this misery they have also started something good. And really, what we can do now is just a start. It's gonna be a while before it's better. But I have faith in our resilience and I am confident that it will be all right. That's not the same as thinking things aren't that bad right now. The coming times remain very erratic and confusing. It's still a time when we're all not so sure. Some people start to doubt it, others become very hard and certain. Some people focus on happiness nearby and other people get angry at the whole world and go in protest. A lot of people actually feel a little bit of everything. I've also seen very beautiful things in this corona-wretched, things I'm proud of. We've started to appreciate things like special that at first seemed self-evident. I hope that we will be able to hold on to a lot of that and that we will not fall back on bullshit and bullshit. A lot of things can make you unhappy. You can focus on that, too. Sometimes you can be happy with very little. We can't hug now, but we can look back at each other. We can't sit back now, but we can build a future that's stronger together. We can't turn away the misery of today, but we can protect what's dear to us. No one really caused this. No one wanted this. We can now drive each other crazy with reproaches, anger and frustration, but we can also use the same strength to make us stronger. I hope that these days we will be able to take the lead in this and show the good of politics and democracy to the people of the Netherlands. We owe it to them. These are confusing times, but it's gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u311	Thank you. Then I have interruptions from Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Baudet and Mrs Ouwehand. The interruptions are short and so are the answers. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u312	Those are fine words and an assignment to all of us. Mr Dijkhoff says that we need to think about our strategic independence, how we should proceed with fair trade, how we should be less naive about how we look abroad and how we should protect our businesses. I'd like to work on that. That is very important, not only for the distant future, but also for the near future. Speaking of the near future and the relationship between the market and the government, I would like to make another point, and that is the housing market. We see the rents explode. I also see that the cabinet is trying to do something about that. That's focused on the social housing. A lot of people in the Netherlands do not rent through a housing corporation. In this area, too, the question arises as to whether we need a strong government that says: we should not want these rent increases, especially at this time, so we must maximize them. In fact, there too, market forces need to be reduced. The prices you now have to pay for houses have nothing to do with the real price of such a property.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u313	You could solve this with a free market, but fortunately not everyone in the Netherlands can set up a property in a place where they want to and rent out homes. There's always an order in that. There is an imbalance in the current housing market. There's a lot more demand than supply. That justifies the market master's intervention. So much for the part in the booklet Liberalism 101. There is a bill to allow rent increases without limit in this sector. There is now, I believe, a proposal to do this for three years for inflation plus 2.5%. I am in favour of introducing that principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u314	Does Mr Dijkhoff see room for further discussion on the 2.5%? It's just this time that people are having a hard time. Mr Dijkhoff spoke about young people. That's what I'm thinking. They often rent far too expensive. Is there any room to talk to each other about whether we can make that even sharper? The rents are actually way too high. Every rise is too much. Can we talk about this while we are talking about solving problems by working together? I would very much like to do so on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u315	For most of the cases, I guess. It's hard to say, if you raise the rent, I'll move. Where are you gonna go? That's not gonna work right now. I think it would be wise to see if the current legislative proposal can be improved so that you can help people who are affected by this. I'm making a small reservation. Not for big landlords with lots of properties, but you need to see if people who have their pension in them won't get in trouble if they've really made costs by investing in a property. I'd like to take a look at that. In general terms, I think it would be wise for most cases to discuss this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u316	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u317	A reasonable point from Mr Dijkhoff. I look forward to seeing if we can take this point a little further. We have very big changes between state and market. We need to talk about this further in order to make a real improvement in the short term, so that the rent becomes a little more affordable for all those young people in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u318	Indeed, where we are talking about the strong government and our people's housing, the huge increase in rent has just been mentioned. In the First Chamber a proposal from the SP has been adopted that says there should be no rent increases this year. They came anyway, and not so much. The rents have risen tremendously. It's the biggest rent increase in six years, in the middle of the corona crisis, which you rightly spoke of, which brings so much uncertainty for so many people. On the one hand, what does Mr Dijkhoff think about the fact that the government has rejected the SP proposal that has been adopted and that on the other hand so many tenants are now in real trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u319	The cabinet had to do with two chambers making different statements. Then I find it strange as a member of the House of Representatives, but that is perhaps self-interest, perhaps not so strange that it precedes it. Of course, that doesn't help those tenants. That is why I welcome the fact that the Cabinet has money to do what is the worst, with high rents and lower incomes, and that it is also looking outside the corporation sector at maximizing rent increases, as I have just discussed with Mr Klaver. A strong government means that you can intervene effectively if necessary. That doesn't mean you can solve all the problems for everyone. No government, no adjective you put on it, will ever be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u320	I don't think this is gonna solve all the problems for everyone. This is very specific about people in a rental house who are in trouble. If you see the figures showing that a quarter of the people living in a rented house can't actually afford the rent anymore and that half the people are having a hard time bringing it up, then those problems are very big. Any progress is, of course, welcome. Then it's a good thing that people get into trouble, but that group is much bigger. We had our own research done last week by I&D. It showed that no less than two thirds of the people who have indicated to the landlord that they are coming into the trouble have gotten zero on the reekest. That means that the rents there have risen hugely. So that's not the solution. That is why once again the question to Mr Dijkhoff: he cannot look away from it. Maybe he can get it from the First Chamber. That'll be on him. But he can't look away from all those tenants who are just in trouble right now, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u321	The real solution is, of course, building. "Build, build, build" would be my spokesman. Otherwise, you're gonna keep dividing up scarcity. There I welcome the fact that the cabinet is not only looking at the problems of today, but has also made money available and is working with the corporations, and that the minister is going to interfere more by saying, "Why isn't it built here? There's a plan, there's land; what's the problem? Is there perhaps a little money needed somewhere to solve the problem, with a municipality for example?" I like that. That's the real solution. In the meantime, I think it is good that there is room for the cabinet to look at the bottlenecks. If Mrs Marijnissen says that the cabinet underestimates the number of people in trouble or that it should be more, then we need to discuss it. I'm not saying, in principle, that nothing is possible. We're gonna get involved in the increases. It is also important to see how much it rises by the landlord at all. The Minister will be able to come up with the most appropriate solution. If Mrs Marijnissen thinks that the Minister does not yet have everyone in his sights, that must be done in the budgetary procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u322	About that first point, that "building, building, building." I am glad to hear that Mr Dijkhoff is now also saying that the government should be more involved in this, to use Mr Dijkhoff's words. I think that's true, especially when you look at what's happened over the past few years. Last week the study showed that 729 social housing units have been added over the last five years. I just couldn't believe that number at first. That's not a street a year we're talking about. So I don't think that's the right answer for all those people who are in trouble right now. This cabinet has been on its way for some time and this has been the result of this cabinet. So we can't use that as an argument right now. On the other hand, the rents have risen tremendously. I just called it the biggest rent rise in six years. Then it's too easy to say right now: we're going to look at people who really get in trouble. It is quite unclear how that is going. That'll be bureaucratic. We can see that this whole group of people is really getting into trouble and therefore my question again. This cabinet has not succeeded in putting that "building, building" into practice. There are too few apartments, but the rents have also exploded. What is Mr Dijkhoff going to do now for those tenants who are now in trouble? And do not refer to the housing budget, because that is not what we are here for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u323	I don't have a budget. I'm not the Home Secretary. If we are going to make it personal, I am going to support the Minister for Housing in the possibilities and the budget she has to limit the rent increase and solve the bottlenecks. So if you ask me so directly what I'm going to do, that's what the Cabinet should do. So yes, refer? That's how it works, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u324	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u325	I am sorry, Madam President, but we are aware of Mr Dijkhoff's attitude of nonchalance; 'I am shrugging my shoulders', 'it is up to the cabinet' and 'I do not know any of that either'. I'm sorry, but there are a lot of people who aren't good enough for that. There are a lot of people in trouble right now. That's because of the policy of your cabinet. I just mentioned it, there hasn't been a block of rental homes added net over the past period a year. The rents went through the roof because your minister said, "I know better, I'm putting that motion next to me." Then don't look away, shrug your shoulders and say "that's up to the minister" and "I'll see what they come up with." Then you must also tell me what you have in store for those tenants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u326	I told you three times. Now I'm too bright and too nonchalant again. It will all be, but I do not think it is about me but it is about the cabinet having room to see how best to accommodate the tenants who are in trouble, and it is up to us here to support it or not and whether or not to find it good enough and to discuss with the Minister whether she is doing well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u327	Mr Van der Staaij, then Mr Baudet, Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u328	Nice story by Mr Dijkhoff, with "fair trade," "strong government" and "less dependence." Such a three-point sermon always remembers easily. When he looked back from his own life, I was reminded of the following. I'm just a little older and I remember hearing in the 1972 election as a 4-year-old boy how Wiegel in the direction of the PvdA said: it's like Santa Claus, who's gonna pay for all that? I was thinking of this budget: a historical deficit and it is all called robust. Is there really any difference between VVD and PvdA when it comes to sound public finances?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u329	Sure. I thought that Mr Asscher and I differed... We talked them out pretty quietly, but quite a few differences came to light. I see it as follows, and there is no difference; compliments to Mr Asscher, although I do not know if he is happy with that. A major difference is that we are not now in debt to adopt a new structural social policy. What we can do now is try to take a blow that wasn't caused by the economic system or how we set things up, for people, to help people through, to keep their income as much as possible, to keep their work as much as possible, to keep their business as much as possible. This is only possible because we have put things in order in the previous Cabinets and have built up a buffer for difficult times. Now I think we all hoped those difficult times would come later. I also think that if they had come later, we would have seen a greater difference in these elections. Now you have a slap and everyone, from left to right, agrees with each other, albeit not about how exactly: this is a slap for which you put those buffers. If it had all gone well, we would have had elections where the difference was greater. My prejudice about left-wing parties is that they want to spend a lot of money borrowing a loan has never been so cheap to an expansive government and welfare state. We say as a VVD: no, you shouldn't, you should make the buffer even bigger, but you should spend some of it on defence and security in particular, and you should make sure that the burdens go down. In times of crisis, you are all, including Mr Van der Staaij, a little closer together in the lifeboat, but I do think there is still a huge difference in the way we deal with this. If you're gonna grow economically, there's the fund for.........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u330	I agree that you need to use those buffers right now. We also support the support packages. At the same time, in the critical comments of among others the Council of State, you see that it is said: pay attention, when do you return to the old financial normal? A specific question: how long does Mr Dijkhoff think we can afford not to look at the 60% debt standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u331	The first thing the Council of State notices is: boys, you're sending very hard on a black zero; the interest rate is never so low and you also have to do sensible things with it as a government. That was last year. So it's always a good thing that they highlight the other side of what you're already thinking. That's the consistency. How long you can do that, to be honest, depends on whether there will be a second wave. So I find it difficult to put a deadline on that now. I do think that somewhere in the next reign you will have to steer back to growing out of it. Redemption can be done in many ways. You can have a surplus and write it off. You can also make sure that your deficit is in any case smaller than growth, than inflation plus real growth. Then you'll pay off on your own because the percentage of debt decreases. That will not be now and will not be at the APB next year, but we have to go somewhere between the next APB and the next APB, which I hope will, because that means that we will have a vaccine in the spring and not a big second blow at what time and at what rate it is wise to put those buffers back on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u332	Finally, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u333	Does this mean that the VVD doesn't say: it will be okay, also on this point? Because I read that the analysis says: no, you will have to be honest about who will pay that bill in the long term. At what point are you going to make sure that you take measures to get back to a budget balance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u334	Sure. It's gonna be okay, not by itself, and I don't know exactly how.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u335	I just heard Mr Dijkhoff say that 11 September is important to him, as is the murder of Fortuyn and the murder of Van Gogh. These are all matters that really have to do with what one can call the cultural clash between the Islamic world and, among other things, the European world. That's why I totally don't understand what his policy has been as Secretary of State for Immigration. Because I have a list here: between 2015 and 2017, as Secretary of State for Immigration, he was responsible for immigration policy and then he had 250,000 non-western immigrants come to the Netherlands. 250,000! Why? What lesson did he not learn from 11 September, the murder of Fortuyn, the murder of Van Gogh and so on about what all this immigration does to our society?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u336	The lesson I haven't learned is that every non-Western immigrant is immediately a terrorist waving knives or shooting bullets. I think Fortuyn's murder needs a little more nuance if we're to assign the crime scene. It's totally messed up, but he was a Dutchman. So that's a lesson I didn't take. The lesson I have learned is that integration does not come naturally, that I would give it to every individual who lives here, that we should take over our values, that we should be more resilient and more compelling in it, that it is not that, if you live here long enough, the freedom we have fought for in this country and that you can have here as well, as a kind of infectiousness, perhaps as a kind of virus, perhaps by itself means that you yourself hold a liberal or at least a freedom, and that the separation of Church and State becomes a loving citizen and that we should therefore be stronger in this and also gain more control over our migration as a part of it, but not as a single part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u337	Yes, but that is, of course, something that played a role in the situation around Fortuyn, not so much his killer as a person, but rather the debate he engaged on the consequences of immigration and the enormous problems of integration. They're actually only getting more; they're getting worse. Various studies show that the second, third generation of immigrants often have less affinity with Europe, Western values and the Netherlands than their parents. Ruud Koopmans, for example, has done all kinds of research. That is why I do not understand the VVD's immigration policy. I hear here in a general sense principles that I partly understand and in which I can recognize myself. But then I see the policy. Over the past ten years, the VVD has been in power, with absolute record figures of non-Western immigrants in the Netherlands. Then Henk Kamp says, perhaps because the elections are coming: "Immigration has happened to us." How is that possible? Then who's sleeping? Did it happen to you, all that immigration, when you were Secretary of State for Immigration?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u338	No, Mr. Chairman. The figures that Mr Baudet refers to may be good for the people who are following this debate, and this is not just about asylum seekers. That's the total number. These figures also concern very conscious policies to invite people from non-Western countries who are strengthening the economy and who may be very close to ours in terms of values. So you can't just attribute that number to one type of person.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u339	Well, that's nice, because I expected that remark. I've got some figures on that, too. It's about 20,000 people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u340	Mr. Baudet! Mr Dijkhoff has not yet been spoken. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u341	Then you must also remove the people who have been rejected. Those numbers... You know, there'll be another troll online with new numbers. I do not care much about that; it is about policy. Refugee policy is what you are pursuing; that is what this is about, about asylum policy. Part of that happens to you, because you can have the smoothest policy in the world, but if there is no war or oppression anywhere, no one will come in with that policy. So part of that policy is steering and part of it isn't. That's just events, things that happen in the world, so a war in Syria. I didn't cause it; what we did do was set up shelter. That happened to us; we were not well prepared for so many people coming all over Europe at once. This also had to do with the establishment of a highly respected neighbour, which said "wir purchase tie" and "come on." As a result, all the countries that are in between Germany and Greece, in the Balkans and the EU Member States, thought: go on, if Germany wants you. Some of them also came to the Netherlands. I wasn't happy about that. That is why we have very quickly launched unorthodox plans, some of which have been implemented, namely the closure of the Balkan route and a deal with Turkey. I remember the way the Balkan route was closed and the phone calls that preceded it. I'm still very happy about that and very proud of it. We were also prepared to do other things, such as strengthening European internal borders, doing something within Schengen or creating a ring around Germany. None of that was necessary, because the other options that were preferred worked. But if something's higher than expected, then it's not like you're doing nothing. Then you're gonna work your ass off to check it out, and you did. Only, I wish the power was already smaller or we could have stopped it earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u342	Of course, that's total bullshit. When people come to Germany, doesn't that mean they can come or come to the Netherlands? That has really been a conscious policy. Even now, Syrians who can go back are not helped to actually go back. There are 100,000 people who now get a permanent residence permit every week, more and more, 1,000, 2,000 per week, because they are now five years in the Netherlands. If it was your goal to arrange temporary care, why do they get a permanent residence permit? They're in all those houses we're short in the Netherlands right now. And not much after that, your party will also sign the Marrakech immigration pact. So you cannot tell us that it happened to us or that it happened to the VVD or happened to the Netherlands. It's conscious policy. You're standing in front of it. I think it's so schizophrenic. Just say that you want to believe in it, but don't hide behind vague principles that you just don't act on at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u343	There's a lot of qualifications in there that I'm just parking as noise. I'm gonna tell you exactly how things turned out and what we did to stop it from happening. That I can't do everything I want, even though your Secretary of State has something to do with political majorities, and it has to do with the fact that in Europe you have other countries with an opinion. If I'm in charge on my own, the policy looks different. Unfortunately, I've never been in charge alone. In any case, I would like to see the temporaryity much harder baked in by having a moment after four years when it is being considered whether someone should stay here or go back to the shelter in the region and their place, because I do want to make a contribution to a genuine temporary refugee shelter by someone else can be taken. In those years, if you show that you fit very well in our society, I would see if a journey to a permanent residence is possible. I'd much rather deal with that like that. Only, the real one is... Well, I don't know what route Mr Baudet and his political movement have ahead of them. It could take 15 years, it could take 100 years, we heard about it, but there are limitations, even if you become the country's largest party and you get to run on behalf of a coalition policy. You can't have it all on your own. The question then is: do you not, or do you do your best to get as close to your principles as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u344	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u345	This is really a goddamn game. The VVD has been the governing party for ten years. It has delivered the Prime Minister and continues to succeed in creating a sort of second persona in the run-up to elections with some sort of story of "we need to curb immigration" and so on. If I ask you to do so, you say: we did not have a majority for that; we could not actually do it. There's no one who believes that, is there? That's just bullshit, isn't it? The VVD, and you have been Secretary of State for Immigration, have just brought record figures of non-Western immigrants to the Netherlands. You are not fooling me, and no one in the Netherlands I think you didn't really want that, but you were forced to do it and couldn't go anywhere. You can't rule a country like this and shift the responsibility for it away from you? That's totally unbelievable, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u346	Either you've ruled for ten years, or you can't rule the country like this; it's one of two. I believe that we have been ruling for ten years, we have taken full responsibility for that and there are very often elections, where the voter himself decides what he believes and does not believe. The voter himself decides whether he thinks that Mr Baudet can use that voice to turn reality into his own or that these are other people who say "we want a lot; we can never do it all in a coalition country, but we are working hard on it." That is up to the electorate; that is not up to me and Mr Baudet. You will not vote for me, and I certainly will not vote for you, so that is up to others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u347	To conclude, I note that 750,000 non-Western migrants have joined in ten years. You have been responsible for 250,000 of these during your term as Secretary of State. And when I ask you to do that, you say: we did not have the absolute majority, so we could not decide the policy ourselves. But the Marrakech immigration pact is signed and Ankie Knol does not even get an agreement in Morocco to send illegal immigrants back and so on. Isn't that a totally failing policy? At least admit it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u348	I think they're waiting in Morocco for you to drop by. Mr. Chairman. I took responsibility and I supported Cabinets as a Member of Parliament in which other people were responsible. From people on the run, you judge if they're actually on the run. You're offering them shelter. You make sure kids have a bed. Then you select who can and can't stay. You're working hard to shut down those who can't stay. So I am responsible for everyone who has been allowed to stay and for everyone who has left. I'm responsible for tightening up the ability to withdraw your residence permit if you break the law, even though you're a real refugee. And I am jointly responsible, with the rulers of a lot of other European countries, for closing the Balkan route. People can judge me and my party on that, on all the pluses and minuses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u349	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u350	Mr President, I am completely surprised that it is my turn. I would also like to congratulate Mr Dijkhoff for his general political views in an understandable language. That was a nice contribution. Nice. Once again, I would like to congratulate you on the reflection that has been expressed. I do have a question. Mr Dijkhoff just said: building, building, building; what is the problem? But I think he does. In my opinion, he knows perfectly well that the agricultural policy of the past few decades has not really mattered whether the VVD was the largest party, or whether the CDA has made sure that all those livestock farms have been granted permits that have eventually shut down the whole country, which means that you cannot build. When the coalition agreement was reached, 200 million was earmarked for the restructuring of pig farming. We discussed this with the VVD. The Party for Animals then said: "It is a good plan in itself, but of course it is a bit crazy. Why should taxpayers now invest 200 million in a sector which, according to the Cabinet, met all environmental permits? Why is part of it used again for new subsidies?" Then Mr Dijkhoff said: I expect the Minister of LNV to ensure that money is spent efficiently and that it actually solves the problems. Now that jar has grown to nearly 500 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u351	And the question, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u352	The question's coming. There is the same pot of another 500 million for new subsidies. And all the experts say it's not gonna help the construction. The scheme turned out to be written by Rabobank, not to solve nitrogen problem, not to solve the climate problem and not to solve the smell problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u353	Mrs. Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u354	This arrangement therefore costs almost a billion dollars and does not help the VVD with its construction plan. So I had actually expected critical questions from Mr Dijkhoff to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u355	You can now hear varying sounds about whether or not this arrangement can be effective; it is just who the sender is. I can't judge that right now. At first we heard that the arrangement was heavily overwritten. That is why more money was allocated to it, so that many pig farmers thought: with this arrangement I would like to do something else. I think it's right that you're paying for that. These people have an honest livelihood. They do business that has advantages and disadvantages, but they do so according to the rules. If you say "we wouldn't mind if you quit, because then we can use that space differently," you have to deal with it nicely and make good appointments with these people. That also costs money. That's how you treat people, I think. I can't appreciate those last sounds. Does this indeed mean that this regulation will not be effective? I can't judge that right now. She's supposed to be. I hope, of course, for an explanation from the cabinet that it is effective. Otherwise, you're gonna have to do something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u356	Perhaps I could catch up with Mr Dijkhoff. He'll know himself, but we'll explain. We do the Political Reviews in understandable language. The pig stables are in Brabant. Mr Dijkhoff knows that. The construction plan is in North and South Holland. If it succeeds in reducing nitrogen emissions there, because pig farmers will voluntarily participate in this expensive scheme written by the Rabobank itself.................................................................................................................................. So that "building, building, building and I don't see the problem; why don't we start with it": this is the problem. The VVD does not even choose the interests of the farmers themselves, because they do not benefit, but opts for the interests of the Rabobank, the cattle industry and the cattle feed boys. They are the only ones who have an interest in a large herd. The VVD chooses those interests and yells at the voter: building, building, building; I don't see the problem. You are the problem! You have to whistle back to the cabinet and say, "Hello, we are going to solve these nitrogen problems efficiently, and we are going to solve them now. We don't go in April if there's a new cabinet just once to see how we're gonna fix this."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u357	It's a pretty understandable explanation, but I don't know if this is the most objective one. You would almost get the impression that Mrs Ouwehand pleads for not buying out farmers in Brabant, because it does not help to build houses in North Holland. But we also want to build enough in Brabant. I think it is clear to everyone that there are various sources of nitrogen emissions, that the total is too much and that agriculture has a significant contribution to make. So we want to see whether this contribution can be reduced on a voluntary basis, for example by doing your business differently or by making it attractive for people to stop. Where a company stops, it will of course produce more nitrogen than far away. You're gonna need other measures for that. I do not want to talk about these motorways every time, but we have also taken other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u358	Oh, yeah. I understand that Mr Dijkhoff says: is it objective if Mrs Ouwehand is waving these figures? But we just have the facts here on the table. The settlement that came into the coalition agreement was devised by former Minister Uri Rosenthal in 2015. The Ministry of LNV ordered it to do so. Why? 'Cause things were bad with pig farming. That's what happens all the time. That is the well-known pig cycle. You could also say: well, boys, entrepreneurial risk. The Rabobank was allowed to contribute to that arrangement. Who got better? The Rabobank. This arrangement ensures that new stables are bought out. That's what needs to be done. But now there is another 500 million extra to turn old stables into new stables, which we know will reduce far too little nitrogen. They will have to be bought out later. That seems to me to be a case of ball-ball, in which the VVD actually cooperates that the taxpayer is simply being swindled. This can't be happening! We put a billion dollars into it, while the problems aren't solved, and the Rabobank is the only one who's smiling third with those pennies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u359	No, I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u360	And this is it? This is the Smartest Man's answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u361	That's a quiz. There the questions are a lot shorter and often multiple choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u362	That was a quiz. I admit, that was a silly joke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u363	I didn't have a lot of options right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u364	It's a silly joke. But you can't really think that you're standing here reflecting on the new role of the government and that you're saying... It is right that we should also keep a close eye on taxpayers' interests. What debt do we pass on? However, it cannot be the case that the VVD still does not, at present in history, choose to face up to the facts, namely that the intensive livestock farming of the taxpayer is asking for all that money to be poured into a bottomless pit, whereas farmers are not even getting better. The big guys are gonna run off with that money, and there's no way to build an extra house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u365	But of course this is not an invitation for reflection. This is a plea, a charge. And then I'm gonna have to disprove that one by one. If Mrs Ouwehand says 'it cannot be', I can easily say that it is not. Then I'm gonna have to rebut every statement. It is a bit of an invitation to walk on a path that Mrs Ouwehand has just run a few vulture barrels of manure over. I'd rather walk around the block. I think we should tackle the problem of nitrogen. Agriculture contributes to this. That is why we have buy-out arrangements for farmers who want to quit their business and do something else. Then you don't have those emissions either. There are also rights to be taken out of it. We'll see if you can advance your business in a way that can be done with less emissions. Those are all paths that can be walked. There is also circular agriculture, which some coalition partners may be a little more in favour of than we are, but I would also like to be convinced by the practice if that helps. All these things we do. The only thing we don't do is ring a bell and say, "Get out of your business, go to the UWV because we're closing the soup mess." We don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u366	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u367	Mr Dijkhoff summarized it himself neatly. The VVD prefers to walk around the block and just looks away from all the waste and all the misery that has been untenable for decades because of the oversized livestock in the Netherlands. If you come up with the facts, the VVD still, even today, prefers to walk around the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u368	In our beautiful nature with beautiful nature areas it is also not a punishment to occasionally walk a block. It's also very healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u369	I see Mr Asscher, then Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga and Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u370	Clear language, the cabinet doesn't do enough to live. There are too few homes and the rents are too high. There is a solution here that solves a lot of problems: employment. If you remove that landlord's tax now or bring it much further back, a lot of people can stay at work and come to work. Then people can find an affordable home and rents can stay low or down. Then you can do something about the climate problem, because you're building these homes sustainably. So here really is a solution that I have the impression the VVD is blocking. The question now is whether you are willing to send the cabinet out to come up with new proposals, where we are doing more to combat the housing crisis, we are doing more to combat the employment crisis and we are doing more to combat the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u371	The landlord's tax came because there was so much money left that wasn't spent on building. So the idea that if you were to dispose of these corporations every euro they have, they would immediately reapply for new stones and for building, it didn't turn out to be the case. It even did some really weird things, but we're not going to bring up those exotic examples right now. The tax is there because the money stayed with corporations that had to build. What I would much rather do, as happened last year, is that the Minister goes around the table and says, "I'm only doing something for you if you're actually going to build; I just want to see it build and then we can talk about you paying less tax." This rather than saying that we are abolishing the generic levy and then we are building everywhere. Also because there are more bottlenecks than just the finances of corporations. We have already talked about nitrogen and municipalities where the Minister has achieved results over the past few years or months by putting the heads together and getting the knot out of it. So I think it's gonna take more. In a concrete plan we like to look at it, but that totem pole of the landlord's tax, in terms of that if you build that disposal there, I don't share that analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u372	You may not share that analysis, but you are now the only one. In your coalition, too, all the other parties are so far away that they see: this landlord tax is now in the way of building affordable housing. It's just politics, too. We can all say that we have to talk to each other, but the Labour Party wants more to happen to live. The rents are too high. There are too few affordable homes and we have rising unemployment. So there will have to be more money to invest in this. That landlord's tax is the vehicle. My question was also a political one. You say much more needs to be done. Yeah, there's always more to be done. But are you prepared to instruct the Cabinet to come up with new, different plans? Then, as far as I am concerned, I would like to add an analysis that these corporations need the money. If it reassures you that it really ends up in affordable housing, I am fine with that, but it has to be done, and for the Minister's budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u373	I don't forbid anyone to think about new plans, but, yeah, sometimes you have an analysis on your own. That's possible, but that's no reason to step away from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u374	Finally, Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u375	Finally. So that means that you are indeed blocking it or that you intend to block us from asking the Minister to start building more homes with a low landlord's tax? That's the VVD position?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u376	I haven't seen a convincing story that I say, well, let's just let it go. Mr Asscher always asks for new plans and proposals, and then he often links them with something concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u377	That's our job. Jobs. Houses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u378	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u379	That linking up what you're doing is more political. That doesn't necessarily lead to more jobs and houses. That is your right and you are doing well, but then it is not so bad if I explain it and indicate where I draw the line. New ideas, okay, but if they are immediately linked to the transition to a measure, then I won't. The moment there's a good plan that convinces me or something else, I never thought: "I've ever called anything else, so I'm blocking it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u380	It has been said for years that there is a huge housing crisis. We have had debates here in which almost all parties in the Chamber recognize that. There are also people who say that the fundamental right to a roof above your head is gradually being called into question. How does Mr Dijkhoff, also in the context of the General Political Reviews, assess the situation of the housing market at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u381	I think that there are shortages in many layers and that the focus is often on what corporations can do in social housing, but the cities that have the most deficits are also the cities with the highest percentage of social housing. So there's something missing in the analysis. So I also want room for the middle rent, the higher rent, more apartments for sale. The focus on social housing because it may be closer to the government, I do not think it is the best remedy to address the housing problems. There are also people who are in a social home who might want to take the step, or who are now renting in the free sector who have lost more rent now than they would normally have lost to a mortgage and who simply want to live up to their own dream of buying a house. So I find that focus in the answer to the social rental and housing corporations far too tight, if you look at the problems that exist and the needs that people have. If you're asking, "you're just having a good time?', Then you don't have to do anything. If you ask, "What would you like?', Then there are a lot of people who want to go to their own house, the next house, where they own; build something. Yes, then you also have to meet that need, otherwise you will have enough front doors and roofs, but you have not met the needs that people themselves have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u382	A brief question, Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u383	I think that a lot of people who are forced to stay home because they cannot buy a house, but also because they are not eligible for social housing, or that they have to wait 15 years, really see that as a problem. Mr Dijkhoff's party over the past 50 years has been in power for 42 or 44 years, almost continuously. It seems like this is happening to all of us, but this too is a policy. If we look at the social housing, we do have the landlord's tax. But we also had in 2013 the complex-by-complex rejection of social housing, making foreign investors...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u384	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u385	...who bought in our cities and then put it away in the middle sector with a lot of profit. Why don't you go to that middle-rent house? The previous cabinet also introduced the market test. A number of cooperatives have been with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u386	And your question, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u387	They have said: we just want to get rid of that; we do want to do something in the middle segment, but it takes too much effort to get through that market test every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u388	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u389	Is Mr Dijkhoff prepared to look at that, too, to abolish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u390	I think that market test's already frozen. I don't think it's anything in practice anymore. That has already been done, so I am willing not only to look at it but also to support it. I think that if corporations can sell homes and use the proceeds to rebuild, that's a good plan too. I am also taking Mr Azarkan's suggestion. I'd like to see who you're selling it to... to people who are going to live directly in it. I think that's a good idea, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u391	Then I have Mr Van Haga, Mr Jetten, Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen. I urge everyone not to make any introductions to the question. Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u392	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the energy supply. I was very happy a year and a half ago when Mr Dijkhoff converted to nuclear power. That was widely spread. I do wonder what has happened in the meantime to create a nuclear power plant. I was less pleased with the fact that suddenly we had to get rid of natural gas. Anyway, done business doesn't take a turn. I have a question about solar and wind energy. It was just said that we need more of that. Now we have barely 2% of solar and wind energy. As Mr Dijkhoff knows, it supplies electricity when the sun shines and you have nothing if the sun doesn't shine. When the wind blows, you have wind power, and if it doesn't blow, you have nothing. How are we going to solve the problems with the electricity grid or its capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u393	It wasn't a conversion a year and a half ago. Before I went into politics, I once made a telephone call to energy providers asking: can I also get red current, because I really only want to take off atomic current from you? That wasn't offered by anyone except the one little provider who always advertises heavily in the Elsevier. But from the companies I thought there was some backing behind, no one offered me that. So it certainly wasn't conversion. Mr Van Haga asks what happened in the meantime. In the meantime, we have adopted a motion in the Chamber to keep Borssele open longer. The cabinet has indicated where the bottlenecks are and where the obstacles are now. Hence the question: good that we know that, but go ahead with your work. If it's okay, a study will soon come out on where the odds lie. I will therefore request tomorrow that we have a specific discussion with those parts of the Netherlands. You should hear that now with municipal councils that say 'then do a nuclear power plant'. I would say: if the motion is adopted, talk to the companies that can build it. How do we do it in terms of space? You need 16 million solar panels for one Borssele. You can count on how much land you're taking with that. I'm for solar energy, because I think you can catch day-and-night with local grids or batteries in the house. Maybe you can plug in your car later. Mr Van Haga has a technical background and he knows a lot more about it than I do. So maybe it can play a good role in the mix. But I didn't say we're gonna put everything on that. There's no such thing as that mega battery that's pulling us all year round, and it's not gonna be there in the next few days. Furthermore, Mr Van Haga said that we suddenly had to get rid of the gas. Well, that's gonna take at least 30 years, and that infrastructure might be used for other things, too. They're looking for hydrogen through it now. If we just run a nuclear power plant, we can branch out that power station for the development of green hydrogen if the grid doesn't need that voltage. Then we can use that hydrogen again for all kinds of other things and transport applications.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u394	My question was, in fact, what is the solution for the electricity network and its capacity? With solar energy of course you have that intermittent current, but with wind energy you even have that to the third power. If it blows hard and the sun shines at the same time, you're in big trouble. Even with the low 2% of solar and wind energy we have now, we can already see that it is causing problems for the network. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u395	I just don't have the technical expertise to discuss that in detail. What I would think was a shame is that you would have to turn off a mill for that reason. I'd rather see you take it off, just like I described for that nuclear power plant, and invest that energy in the infrastructure to make green hydrogen. The wind energy you then have, you don't blow into the net, but you branch off, if that's possible, to generate green hydrogen. I would like to see such solutions. Then you can overcome the requirement of security of supply with a basic supply of nuclear energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u396	The solution of green hydrogen is more common to me, but the conversion of green electricity to hydrogen and back has a 60% loss. So you immediately lost 60% of all energy from your solar panels and your windmills. I do not think that is a solution at all in the short term. So, yes, perhaps you should have another conversation with engineer Wiebes. I will leave it at that, but I would like to point out that this is a major problem, that that problem is not on the map and that green hydrogen is really a solution in the short term that will be incredibly lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u397	I agree with Mr Van Haga that you have two conversions and two losses. That is why I would only like to use it in cases where direct supply of power via batteries is not possible. You could think of aviation, shipping and... You have to be able to refuel in the transport, because transporting goods takes too long if you have to recharge the battery. So I do see a niche with green hydrogen applications, where that conversion loss is still fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u398	I believe that last year Mr Dijkhoff and I, together with colleagues from the CDA and the Christian Union, surprised friend and enemy when we concluded the Climate Agreement. In the beginning, this was a bit of a shock, but in the end we managed to create a package of measures that will reduce the Netherlands' CO by 49% in 2030. This makes us one of the first countries in the world to truly translate the Paris climate agreement into concrete policies. This morning, Von der Leyen, the President of the European Commission, declared an ambitious State of the Union with very clear objectives in the area of climate and energy. It proposes to achieve 55% CO reduction in Europe by 2030. Mr Klaver and I are going to propose a new soil in our own climate law by increasing that 49% to 55%. My question to Mr Dijkhoff is whether the VVD is prepared to look together with GroenLinks and D66 at the adaptation of that climate law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u399	That depends on how many nuclear power plants I get back for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u400	That's a funny reaction...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u401	Seriously!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u402	... but of course it starts with setting the goals. The European Union is now going to 55%, but there is also a very large package of the Green Deal, with huge amounts of European subsidies that countries can use to help isolate homes, to build that hydrogen infrastructure, and you name it all. The cabinet lobbied very successfully in Brussels and in other Member States, because in the government agreement we wanted to raise all these targets to 55%. Then my question is again: is the VVD prepared to include this objective in the Dutch law?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u403	Not at the moment. I would say to Mr Jetten that it starts with an objective, but you cannot continue to pursue objectives for very long. You set a goal, then you go see if it's feasible, if you can get people along and if you can do it. If it's feasible and feasible, then I think you can raise the percentage. If we are going to support it with the whole of Europe, then I think you can do that. But that discussion has just begun. You start with an objective, but don't come up with plans for less than x. And then I'm gonna weigh whether it's still possible if I raise that target. These objectives also focus very much on 2030, on an intermediate station, and not on the final station. That's why I'm actually wondering, and that's not a joke. How serious we are about after that, towards 2050. How serious are we about a package with which we not only say: we want CO-neutral energy from ourselves in 2050, but we also have a plan to explain how to make it. For me, those things are connected. So I'm not ruling it out, but at the moment I think it's too early to say straight away: we're going to put it in our law. For me, as I indicated earlier in election debates, it is not a competition, of: oh, other countries do this, then we have to raise the percentage. You'd better do it together. If there is a good plan, then I have no reason to rely on anything less than what can be done. So if you can do it in a good way where we don't pull people's skin over the nose, I'd say the percentage depends on that. And if that gets any higher, fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u404	I hear a cautious opening by Mr Dijkhoff and I am pleased with that, because VVD and D66 have shown that there is no need for a contradiction between green and growth in the climate agreement, but also in the climate law where Mr Yesilgöz of the VVD was in box K. We just found the connection between them. By leading the way as the Netherlands and leading the way, we are also able to get billions of EU aid to the Netherlands, so that it is the Dutch schools and universities that invent these innovations here, so that it is the Dutch companies that first apply those innovations, so that you can also make money and save the climate. So my invitation to Mr Dijkhoff is: let us make a new start on the Dutch objectives in the near future, in line with what the European Commission is doing. Then let's look together and see how we can give it concrete hands and feet. There are still many possibilities, because there is still 4.5 billion in subsidies to the fossil industry. If we cut it down over the next few years, we will have a lot of money left to drive that sustainability even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u405	Thank you. I have Mr Wilders, Mr Klaver and Mrs Marijnissen. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u406	I would like to ask Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD. I shall also ask the Prime Minister tomorrow what idea was behind it and whether it is too embarrassing to say that you have sent billions to southern European countries and to other members of the European Union and that the Dutchman who has seen in the newspaper today how little progress he is making if he is getting better, because he is usually going to suffer and pay a great deal of pain while you have sent Dutch money to Italy, Spain and France? How do you explain that to your voter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u407	There is no wall around our country and even if you put it: if you stop dealing with countries outside of us, we will quickly become much poorer. That's a lot less helpful to people at home. So if you're working in an economic zone with countries that we trade a lot with and where our entrepreneurs make money from, then it doesn't help you to say: fall apart, because I don't feel your pain. If the boat leaks on the other side, you get wet feet yourself and you go under too. So a pot has been made in which the countries mentioned by Mr Wilders also stop money. We also get money out of it, but on balance we put more in it than we can get out of it. Let me just be honest about that. That's an investment. As an entrepreneur sometimes says: if my customers go bankrupt, I don't have much use for them either, so sometimes I have to give them credit to keep things going, otherwise I will go on board the ship myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u408	So, the HEMA is threatening to go bankrupt, and the gentleman of the HEMA is going to hand out his money to people on the street. Then those people buy from the HEMA that day and he says: I had a good day. With his own money they bought his products. What you did, of course, is that you... do you have any idea what purchasing power hurts people now when they've lost their jobs or when they're older? Do you have any idea how many pensioners in the Netherlands are currently falling significantly because of the discounts or because of the poor purchasing power? What do you think these people will think when they hear it, then I am only talking about the donations; then I am not even talking about the loans that Italy receives 85 billion, Spain 71 billion, France 51 billion? Even Germany, a super-rich country for which there is no theory that they will go bankrupt otherwise; Germany is richer than the Netherlands, Germany receives 47 billion in donations, Greece 17 billion, Portugal 12 billion. Countries that are richer than the Netherlands are receiving billions from the Netherlands. Here you leave the pensioners in the cold. Here you make sure that people get a small plus in reality with the local loads a thick minus. Then I ask: who are you standing in front of? Are you in front of the Dutch electorate, or are you in front of the German electorate or the Italian electorate? Surely you were chosen by the Dutch to help them and not to help that wealthy country Germany?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u409	Of course, these amounts are not all paid by the Netherlands. That might be good to know for people who are following the debate. The Netherlands will pay part of that, I'm sure. I'm standing here in front of the Dutch electorate. I am also standing here for Dutch people who are not allowed to vote yet. I am also standing here for Dutch people who may still have to be born and for Dutch people who do not even know what politics is, like my own children. I'm not standing here alone for the next few years. I'm also standing here for the longer term. I am not standing here as a sort of big company that sees it go down, to polish the figures with borrowed money for a few more years, so that it looks nice and fun for now, but I am standing here to make sure that we change, so that we and in future our children are still one of the richer countries in the world in a rich Europe. Sometimes you need things that are difficult to explain in two sentences, which are not easy to grasp in simplism "they get 80 billion and you get nothing." I think some of the people are gonna stand on the couch and say, "So, that's what Wilders said nicely; I'm gonna vote for him." Another part of people thinks: yes, that sounds fun, but it's too simple. Those people are right, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u410	You're not giving the beginning of an answer. Germany.......................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u411	You always say that, but you don't listen. I've given the answer three times, and now you're gonna tell me I'm not gonna start. And if I do answer, you say: that is a lot of lyrics! So it's never really good. I get that; your whole input was that it's never good. I'm used to that, but yeah, you know...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u412	I spoke two words. I mean...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u413	That wasn't the beginning of a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u414	Mr Dijkhoff is now going into defense without me attacking him. Well, that's new, isn't it? You're going on defense without me being able to finish what I wanted. But I'm just asking you a very specific question. In Italy, on average, people are three times richer than the Dutch. Do you know why? Because the Italian authorities do not levy taxes, they do not levy enough taxes. They don't have tax morals there, so the Italians are all going to party and barely pay taxes. We are giving 85 billion to that, as the whole of the European Union, 85 billion. But then Germany. Mr Dijkhoff, Germany is a richer country than the Netherlands! Why the hell do we have to give Germany $47 billion? What's the ratio behind that? Those Italians and Germans and other countries are going to do nice things with that. They're gonna lower the AOW age. They're gonna give the care staff extra pay, like in France. They're going to lower the VAT. All nice things for the people! Why do you do that? Why do you give a country like Germany 47 billion and a country like Italy, where they are still too bad to levy taxes, 85 billion? Why don't you say, "Italy, why don't you start by raising your own taxes before I take the Dutch tax money there"? Why don't you say, "Germany, you have more money than we have. Find out for yourself"? How do you explain this: 85 billion to Italy, 47 billion to Germany? Isn't that a very specific question about two countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u415	My predictive ability wasn't far off. I figured after two sentences, it'd be another attack. If Mr Wilders thinks he is not attacking and is reasonably involved, he should look back on his own input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u416	Answer me!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u417	I'll give you an answer, too, I'm sure. I'm taking my time for that now, because it was just too short. Here's what we're gonna do. All these countries together have borrowed money and they give it to each other. You can say that the Netherlands gives so much billion to Germany. In every country, the Geert Wilders are on duty to tell the government that that's bad. In Italy, Salvini tells us that the Italian government has capitulated for Rutte, that they've got a slap, that they've had the floor wiped with them by that grumpy Dutchman who kept his foot stiff and that there's not much more money coming. Every country has that. In Germany it is the AFD that says that Merkel has bent again and that all rich countries are getting money again. In the end, you have this problem with each other, that you're gonna take this loan with each other. The Netherlands also gets money. There is indeed a factor in that the stronger economies bear that. You say the Italians are richer. It's hard to compare. Dutch people have a lot of property in their pension funds. That money isn't in their own bank account. It's a little apples with in this case pizzas you compare. I admit immediately that your equations are easier to digest than my complicated explanation because it is very complicated. I make that choice because I am convinced that it will be wiser in the longer term. It is not more fun, pleasant or easier in the short term. I'll admit that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u418	I do not know which category this falls under, but this is not the beginning of an answer. Italy 85 billion. No answer, except you say it's hard to measure. 85 billion! Germany 47 billion. You didn't even try to give me the start of an answer. The country is richer than we are and we give 47 billion to the Germans. You can't be serious. Are our pensioners going to be cut back on our pensions, while we are going to pay a rich country like Germany 47 billion? That's impossible, isn't it? Who the hell are you standing here for? It's not like I or Salvini or anyone else are keeping a cheap story. These are the facts. 47 billion to Germany and here in the Netherlands take the pensioners. 85 billion to Italy and get people to bite the crap out of it. Those are the facts. You should be ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u419	Mr President, Mr Wilders makes me ashamed every week and I never have the beginning of an answer. Fortunately, I always have the middle piece and the end of the answer. That is what Mr Wilders is getting. But let's also be very honest. It doesn't really matter what I say. It always ends with: you should be ashamed of yourself. It's all outrageous and it's all wrong. He mentions amounts that a country receives from all those countries together and he pretends it's only from the Netherlands. Then one will be played again against the other. It's Mr. Wilders' style. He gets seats with that. I wish him good luck with his anniversary. I hope he gets to speak first again next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u420	But, Mr President, this is also scandalous. A lot of people at home...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u421	It's certainly outrageous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u422	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u423	I'm gonna start over. But, Mr President, this is also scandalous. A lot of people at home think this is scandalous, too. This isn't a political game of mine. People who are now watching television see that the VVD gives 47 billion to Germany and 85 billion to Italy, while Germany is richer than the Netherlands and while citizens of Italy are not richer than the state because they do not levy taxes. Those people are now seeing their pension cut. People see they get high rents on their account. People see that the personal risk in the care is €385. If they are ill, they will be in financial trouble in a month or two months. Those aren't political games. You may insult me. But don't insult the people at home who think: why does this Dijkhoff do that? Why would he do that when he has to stand up for us? You won't. Whether you're ashamed or not doesn't really matter. Then don't be ashamed. But these are the facts and you are wronging the Dutch who make money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u424	I have said a number of times that the things that Mr Wilders indicates are not the facts that happen to people when they hear this. They will think that these amounts come only from the Netherlands. So it's not. Furthermore, I think there will be good people at home who agree with Mr Wilders. That's a lot of them. There are a lot more people who disagree with him. They do not find it scandalous and look at it differently. I think there are also a lot of people at home who have thought a number of times about Mr Wilders' contribution: this is scandalous. It's okay here. It's okay here. That's democracy. The difference is that I do try to give an answer and to go into a tone that is quiet, as far as I can control myself. Everyone at home, whether they support you or not, knows that if you get a question, there's only you-boxes and high-pitched commotion. Everyone thinks someone turned the volume button on the sound system. Eventually we have heard the same thing for ten years and we haven't had much use for ten years. Well, that's my opinion. A lot of people at home will disagree with that. They're voting for you. There are also a lot of people at home who agree with that. I hope they vote for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u425	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u426	I have a question about the number of emerging infections. The debate is now going on for about five hours, and that is not really what it is about. That's what we're worried about. The figures that come in today confirm those concerns. If you see that the GGD here in The Hague, for example, had to stop the really good source and contact research yesterday, that the test streets are running and it takes a long time for people to get the results of their test, then I am curious how Mr Dijkhoff looks at that and the policy of the cabinet. We can talk about everything here today, but if we are really going to lose control of that virus, it will be very disastrous for all those companies you were talking about, for employment, for those jobs and for all those people's incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u427	Grip on the virus is one of the most difficult things for all of us, even here in the Chamber, because it's determined by how people behave. Whether people comply with the rules and regulations to minimize each other's contamination depends on how they see that the cabinet is doing it and whether they have confidence in it. I often have two thoughts on this point. I see how hard work is being done to increase the test capacity, but I also see that sometimes it does not succeed in reaching the top of the margin, which may have been aroused. Let me put it this way. I wish we were much further in testing, that we had more capacity. I just don't see exactly what I should say now that people should do differently in order to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u428	Okay. Yeah? Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u429	In this sense, it is worrying that the largest party in the Chamber and also in the cabinet does not already know that, but that research on sources and contact is the foundation of our Corona approach. We see on all sides that it squeaks and cracks a quote from the cabinet itself. Well, at least that's what worries are supposed to be. With me it leads to a déjà vu of the debates we had here in March and April. At that time we also had discussions in the sense of: why do we not get the test capacity in order and are there not enough source and contact researchers to do that source and contact research properly? Then the whole wretched but also very, very worrying conclusion is that we are still in that debate. We have heard that there would be sufficient testing and laboratory capacity to test everyone with complaints. And now we just see that it's not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u430	That is also worrying. Of course, it is not that we are in the same discussion, because the number of people who can be tested every day is already much larger than when we had that discussion last time. You can see a steady increase in test capacity. You also see a steady expansion of the needs and the need for them, and you are still just following them. If Mrs Marijnissen does have the solution but we do not implement it, then I think it is a different discussion than when we have to see that we are working very hard and we are still just behind the facts. If it's a matter of money or using other laboratory capacity, I'll be open to it right away. It also has to do with the fact that the minister is not about the GGDs and that there are independent things in there that you didn't just train someone for. But if we see a bottleneck that we can deal with, I say do it right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u431	Good. Then I go to Mr Jetten for a very short question, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u432	Yes, I have a brief check-up question. Mr Dijkhoff just wished Mr Wilders to be the first speaker at the APB next year. Mr Wilders just refused to be clear about whether he would exclude the VVD from the next formation. But can I conclude from this that the VVD does exclude the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u433	You can see that I hope that the VVD will again be the largest party, convincing from scratch to the electorate. I thought I'd be nice to Mr Wilders by starting him first. At least he'll be the second party in the country. That's what you could tell from that. But honestly, this is all a little spielerei. The election campaign has yet to begin. That's what the voter is about. And then we will settle for the fate that comes to us afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u434	That is not a spielerei, because in the previous elections the VVD did indeed exclude the PVV in advance, because the PVV is insulting groups, does not respect the democratic rule of law and the liberal core values are constantly attacking; in fact, everything that Mr Wilders has done this whole debate. I think that the voter, who goes to the ballot box on 17 March, would like to know whether the VVD and the PVV are prepared to join a coalition after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u435	Last time we wrote down what the blockades were, but I always keep a little hope that a party will change its attitude. That hope hasn't grown today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u436	Thank you. I shall now suspend the sitting until 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u437	We will continue with the debate, with the General Political Reviews. Before I give the floor to Mr Klaver, I would like to make the following point. We have had two speakers so far. Mr Klaver, Mr Jetten, Mr Asscher and Mr Azarkan really asked the maximum number of questions. I actually intended not to limit the number of interruptions, because I know that this is an important debate. But tomorrow we're gonna do it differently, sure. I would like to ask those who have asked a lot of questions to ask as few questions as possible. Otherwise, you will not have the opportunity to interrupt, because the rest of the Members of this House are supposed to be talking about 14 or so. You're also supposed to be here tomorrow fresh and fruity. Then I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks. Luckily, he can't interrupt himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u438	Don't get too rich too soon, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u439	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u440	Thank you, Mr President. If Corona taught us anything, it's how vulnerable we are. Many thousands have fought to stay alive, and some still do so today. They are helped by doctors and nurses who have done their life-saving work in hellish conditions. More than 6,000 people have lost their lives, according to official statistics. But we know there must be a lot more; all victims of that miserable virus. We said from the beginning, "Everyone can be affected by it." Maybe that is why we all talked about the importance of solidarity as the most important value to get out of this crisis. As terrible as the virus was, it also gave an idea of fate. We shared a sense of vulnerability. We are not only vulnerable as people, but also as a society. We know that we can harm each other unforgiving, inhuman and unimaginable. War and violence are not out of the world. We're doing it to ourselves. Just like we do when we abandon each other at Lesbos, Camp Moria, Camp Hell. Children left to their fate. 10, 100, 500: no matter how many people we take in from the 13,000 refugees from inhuman hell, it is and remains magical with small numbers. But here too, we are talking about the idea of belonging to fate, the realization that one day, we can all be refugees and in need. That you're lying there by the guardrail, with your own kids. We forget that too often. My anger is right there, because the first question after such a drama is "how can we help?', But the question of the coalition seemed to be: how can we solve a political problem? Well, like that, with a political handshake. Only more people can come from Moria if we take back less vulnerable people and only if we manage to make the asylum procedure at the same time, because that was a long-cherished desire of the VVD. That cynicism is what makes this exchange indigestible. In all this vulnerability of the children of Moria, the value of solidarity has been lost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u441	Before I give Mr Wilders the floor, I miss the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations and the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. Mr Koolmees is going to look for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u442	Mr President, then there is nothing else to do but start over.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u443	Good. I'll see if Mr Koolmees takes them. No. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u444	Mr. Klaver forgot to mention something. He says "we forget humanity" and so on, but he forgets how that fire started there. That fire in that shelter started because the people who were there burned down migrants or asylum seekers, or whatever you want to call them. Again, you have your opinion, I have my opinion. But my first question is, why don't you tell me? I don't care if you come to the same conclusion ten times, but why don't you tell me that story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u445	Indeed, it is most likely that residents of those camps have lit it themselves. Then we're talking about a small group. And indeed, my conclusion would not be different. I hate that they did that. These individuals should not be rewarded for that, but the fact remains that there are children lying down the guardrail and that I think we should take them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u446	This will only make things worse. You're only making it worse. We saw yesterday that something was set on fire again on a completely different island. This time it wasn't about the shelter, but about the near that shelter what was it? It is a sort of selection agency where people enter, where people are examined to see if they are entitled to a place in that asylum-seekers' centre, that reception centre. So that's what's happened now. Yesterday another shelter, a nearby location, was set on fire again. This morning I read in the newspaper that Greek politicians are now saying: all our islands are about to set fire. Greek politicians say: if we reward that by bringing people to mainland Greece or to mainland Greece, because that is now, of course, happening in Greece, then all those islands will soon be on fire. Let alone bring them to the Netherlands, Germany or other countries. Because you give the signal to the people: if you set your shelter on fire, you will be rewarded, and it is not you, or your family or any other person taking it to Greece or bringing it to Europe. You don't want to be co-responsible for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u447	I'm a dead man. I've been to Athens. I've been to Lesbos. I saw that camp. When you talk about a shelter camp, you might think of a place where very structured tents are all together and are good facilities. But Camp Moria is in fact a relatively small camp, with a small camp of a Dutch NGO. For the rest, they are tents on a mountain that flow away when it rains very hard, where it is full of crap, where people get sick, especially children, and where people use electricity by pulling cables every time. That's dangerous. The fact that it hasn't been set on fire before is a miracle of God. The problem that has now arisen because of this fire... Actually, the place was already on fire on all those islands. Not literally, but figuratively. It goes far and far beyond the strength of those islands. Those islanders are doing their best to make the best of it for the people they catch, but it was too much and now it's definitely too much. The situation was terrible when I remember what it looked like. And to think, there are no tents anymore and people don't have a roof over their heads anymore. The situation has only deteriorated. I already thought we should make sure that the pressure went off the islands, and that's exactly what I think right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u448	But who the hell is the reason those tents aren't here anymore? That's because the migrants themselves burned the place down. You're abusing... You are really taking advantage of this, because you are talking about the images of those children lying on the street here in the Chamber, without mentioning that. Yeah, of course every sane person hates a child lying on the street. But you abuse that sentiment without telling me who got those kids to lie there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u449	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u450	I wasn't finished. It's not the Greek government that got those kids out on the street. That is not some politician from the Netherlands or I know anyone. No, it's the people themselves. The people themselves set the camp on fire. And now, yesterday again... And who were arrested? Five people have been arrested. They're all migrants. It's all in the paper. You can read it all, and you probably read it too, but you just don't want to mention it. They're people from Africa, people from Syria and an Afghan. Afghanistan, Africa and Syria. Those people have now been arrested because yesterday they also set fire to that camp on that other island of Samos. They did it themselves. Before you let tears in here, say that there is also and do not abuse this sentiment to bring the children to the Netherlands. I predicted it last week in an interruption debate with the colleague of the Party for Animals. He got really mad at me then. I said, "If we allow this now and if we bring children to the Netherlands now, the result will be that the other asylum seekers' centres will be on fire." That's what happened: another one went on fire yesterday. The more tears you leave here... Again, no one likes the footage, but they took care of it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u451	Those kids didn't take care of anything. Yeah, there were people who burned the place down. They must be punished and certainly not rewarded. But to say to all those thousands of people sitting there, "Find out, because a few people were wrong"... Maybe that's your way of doing politics. That's your human image. If one person does something wrong, you tell the whole group: you figure it out. I don't believe in that. In addition: now everyone sleeps outside, but people already slept outside. I think we should catch these people. That's what I thought, that's what I think now, and I'm gonna keep finding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u452	You're taking advantage of the sentiment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u453	Bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u454	And you're not being honest. You're a non-honest politician by not telling them that they did it themselves. However, images of babies and children lying on the street are horrible to everyone, of course, but do not tell them that they themselves set it on fire. Those boats were the same thing. Remember? Those boats that came from Africa and came to Europe. At some point, people said, "Don't let those boats in." Why? Not because you want to drown those people, but because there will be more people with boats if you allow those people in Cyprus, Crete, Lampedusa or anywhere else. Those boat merchants, in those days, are profiting and drowning only more people. Because more people go on such a boat irresponsiblely, because they know: if we reach mainland Europe, we can stay. So everybody gets a boat. The same is the case now. They set it on fire themselves, Afghans, Syrians, Africans. And what does Mr Jetten say? "Oh, let them come here." The result of politicians like you is that all those islands and those centres are burning up everywhere. You don't want to take responsibility for that, do you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u455	Some things stay the same. Mr Wilders is throwing off tirades and I will answer quietly. I have indicated that it was most likely set on fire, indeed by refugees and migrants who were there. That's true. You say it's about five people. There are 13,000 people on Lesbos. I appeal to you, indeed to your humanity, because you can say here that we all hate to see people lying on the sidelines. I remember very well how I walked through that camp and saw that Syrian family lying there for which there was no room, in the air, with a baby of a month or two old. You can look at that in the sense of "I think that's super bad" or in the sense of "can I do something about it?" You can do something about it and say, "We're gonna catch these people." You don't make that choice. That's fine. Anyone here can call me "unfair" or "a bad politician" or something, but you don't do that much to me, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u456	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u457	Corona can hit us all. "The virus does not discriminate," I said at the beginning of the crisis, but that is not true. Corona hits the most vulnerable the hardest. Health is unevenly distributed. People with low incomes and lower education have poor health and are therefore at greater risk. Older people in particular are much more affected than young people. That is exactly why we ask for solidarity and why we continue to say to young people, as I do now: please, stick to the rules; perhaps you as an individual are less vulnerable, but we as a society are not and certainly not old people. It is therefore very worrying that the number of people tested positively is now back to the number at the beginning of June and that we are actually even higher today. We haven't beaten the virus yet. It is all the more worrying that we are still getting signals every day that testing policy is not in order. I would like to receive a response from the Prime Minister on this point. Our vulnerability is not only about health, but also about our society and affects our young people. But are we in solidarity with them? Look at education: that is where the inequality of opportunity is strengthened. No matter how hard schools work, they have less view of vulnerable students who do not have parents who can rethink or help with mathematics or mathematics, children who have no fancy laptops or iPads and who are less encouraged to work as hard at home as they do at school. What measures does the government take to combat this increase in inequality? Or look at the labour market. There the division that was already there becomes much sharper. Flex workers with a call or temporary employment contract have lost their jobs. Their income is falling dramatically. For them not a purchasing power picture with a small plus, but a steep slide to debt and uncertainty. That is precisely why we have proposed a crisis income for flex workers andzzp'ers, for all those who work in the cultural sector and for whom there is no improvement for the time being. Because it is often precisely young people with flex contracts who are affected. The shock of the crisis is passed on to them just like last time. No job, no income, often no home, no internships, no rescue plan. They're out of the boat. In the year of Black Lives Matter, the Central Planning Bureau notes that in this crisis discrimination on the labour market continues to increase, that your last name or skin color does matter if you are looking for work. What conclusion does the cabinet draw from this? That young people have to fight? Or are we finally going to make concrete policies to tackle institutional racism? Mr. Chairman. If we demand solidarity from our young people to fight Corona because we know how vulnerable our elderly are, what solidarity do we show with that young generation for whom the future has become uncertain? What support package is there for them, I ask the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Experts knew the risk of pandemics, but we ignored them as a society. We were warned about the black swans, so I say to the Minister of Finance. But we have not prepared for it, because we are shortsighted, because in the short term economic growth is always more important than the long-term social consequences, because the god of money in this Chamber is sacred. And now we see how vulnerable we are. Now we have to do symptom politics to combat the social and economic consequences of corona. People say to me sometimes: this Mark Rutte, he doesn't do so bad. I'm trying to resist, but actually it's a very nice compliment, especially now that he's been Prime Minister for ten years. But it's also a typical Dutch compliment. It's a little economical. From time to time, this expression is far too economical. The attack on the MH17 is an event that so shocked our country, which was so unimaginable, with so much suffering, that it needed a Prime Minister who was there for all of us. A prime minister for all Dutchmen, the first for the victims and next of kin. At that point, he was the prime minister. He was not only the prime minister of mourning and compassion; he is still the prime minister who will fight tirelessly for the detection and trial of the perpetrators, no matter how complicated that is in the international context. A prime minister of justice. But there is also another prime minister: Mark the manager, the crisis manager. A prime minister, to put it mildly, as an apostle of the god of money, as a sign of time, of economics. His prime minister began ten years ago, in the middle of the financial crisis. The crisis management of his first cabinet led to major cuts and burdens, deep inequality and social contradictions. In hindsight, this was the wrong medicine. The high rents and the shortage of housing are not self-evident natural law. They are the result of the ideology of economics. "Marketing" was called it. That would stimulate housing. Since 2010, rents have risen much more than people's income. There's a big shortage of homes. Young people must, desperately, stay with their parents. Homelessness has doubled in the last ten years. Mr Heerma mentioned it earlier: we must return to the people's housing. But are we doing that now? Do we dare to choose to demolish market forces from housing so that the rents go down, or does it remain symptom politics, with a slight adjustment of the landlord's tax? The shortage of teachers and the shortage of care have not come on its own either. Teachers, police officers, basically everyone in the public sector: they were set aside for years. Jobs in the public sector are not real jobs; real jobs are only in the market, and real jobs are only provided with relief for businesses. How many times have we had to hear that? All these people in the public sector, that is what this crisis has become clear............................................................................................................................................................................................ They are indispensable, not the managers in the public sector who increase the workload with their stopwatch and forms. The control and checkout culture, on targets and production. The ideology of business. The return thinking. The distrust and undervalue of the people who do the real work. We have been talking about this for many years, but now we have to break it. After all, it is this world view and it is these choices that ultimately are disastrous for our society. This virus of economics has made the Netherlands socially ill. With symptom politics, we are now trying to tackle the shortage of teachers, the shortages in care or the housing crisis. We go from crisis to crisis: always reactive, never proactive. Too late all the time, never on time. There has been structural shortsightedness in the politics of the last ten years. After all, we could have seen the nitrogen crisis coming. It was the legacy of Secretary of State Bleker. We knew it was unsustainable string legislation. Since Bleker we have less nature and more goats in the Netherlands. More planes, more cars. In those years, the fundamental choice was never made for truly sustainable agriculture. Never have the causes been addressed. There has always been symptom politics, because there was no guts to say to farmers: it has to be different; the bio-industry is untenable. Now have the courage to say to farmers: the livestock must be reduced, preferably voluntarily; but if it does not succeed, it must be compulsory. Mr. Chairman. In the Climate Act, which I started a few years ago with Diederik Samsom, and which, fortunately, we adopted with a very broad majority in the Chamber, we quoted the former governor of the British Central Bank, Mark Carney. He speaks of "the tragedy of the horizon." We're not looking far enough ahead. Rapid political gain is always more important than preventing a crisis in the longer term. Only if we can break this systematic shortsightedness can we make choices that make our economic and social system truly sustainable. We have about ten years left to stop climate change. In the debate on climate change, it was very often about future generations, but they are not there now. We are the climate generation. We must do everything we can to stop climate change. That is why I took the initiative with Rob Jetten this morning to further adapt the Climate Law. We need to increase ambition, raise targets. That is not because we like these objectives so much, but because we know what the challenge is not to let the earth warm up too far, to at least stop the point that it is irreversible. We know that we will have to meet the targets by 2030. Sometimes it is done in the Chamber whether it is hobbyism or funny, or that we still have to look at how we do it with those objectives. It's imperative. And yes, since we started it too late, we now have to take back what is needed and how we're going to get there. Then I'll need the leadership for the next few years. I do not see that leadership in this budget, not when it comes to climate, not when it comes to housing and high rents, not when it comes to raising healthcare salaries. Nor do I see it in the plans for the coming years and not in the flagship of this cabinet, the Wopke-Wiebes Fund. Why is this fund focused on old-fashioned economic growth, not on climate, green innovation, the economy of the future, broad prosperity? We do not need an old-fashioned growth fund; we need a climate fund. Why has the CO levy been weakened? In 2021, 2022, 2023, 2024 and beyond: zero, zero, zero, zero. There's gonna be a tax, but companies aren't gonna pay for it. The whole idea of the CO tax was that we would make the polluter pay and that we would put that money in innovation, in helping our society forward. It's been calculated with the Planning Bureau to see if we could make it to the 14 megatons. At the same time, it is said that the probability is more than 60% that the target will not be met. I think we are taking an irresponsible risk with our climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u458	The whole idea of the CO levy was that it was a threat, that you should go down if you didn't invest your money in greening? So if you're gonna take the entire proceeds now, you're gonna take a measure that as a government you're gonna say in advance, it's not gonna be him. It may well yield a return if a company does not sustain and therefore has to pay. But the idea was right to make the levy so that it would be cheaper for you to green up and avoid the levy than to pay the levy? If that's a success, you'll have zero return.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u459	There are two problems with the design of the CO-tax. First of all, dispensation rights are given. That means that until 2024 you can actually just go ahead without paying. That's a huge transition. After that, it is indeed assumed that companies are going to innovate enormously. My problem is that we know from all kinds of international comparisons for my party this is not new; since 1990 we have been trying to get a CO tax in this Chamber that such a margin tax, to speak for a moment in the technique that is now there, may work, but that its security is small. It works best if you combine it with a flat charge. It doesn't have to be very high, but you have to put it in there. There's got to be something from a bottom, because that's the best guarantee you're gonna get that 14 megaton we gotta get. That is what we are proposing. I don't see that in the plans. That's why the risk is way too great that we're not gonna make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u460	Then it can be political, but then it is more of "you throw out, so you have to patch it up" than it is a means of reducing emissions, because then you want a return. That is a bit the same as saying that we increase the excise duty on tobacco, which makes people smoke less when we just book in that everyone keeps doing it, which often happens. Or you want a stick behind the door to force companies to invest their money in innovation and sustainability. Or you say it's just a tax I want to raise money with, and then I do something else with it. Maybe those companies will just leave because it's too expensive for them. Then they're gonna emit somewhere else, which doesn't help in a global climate approach either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u461	What you want is for you to be able to reduce those emissions. This means that companies will have to pay and there will be a profit on it. If it is good, the yield decreases over time, because it has an effect. By 2050, we must have reduced CO in the first place. So there won't be any profit at all. So from 2035, 2040 you end up in a big problem. For the moment, we need that money to help companies with the changeover. Now you're giving everyone dispensation rights as we turn around: first get the money as a government and then watch as strong government which sectors you're going to help and how you're going to promote that transition to a sustainable economy. Now we're making it dependent on a benchmark, which I'm afraid can also be cheated on by these companies. The chance of success in reducing CO emissions is then the lowest. It is not for nothing that the PBL says: the chance that we are not going to achieve the objective is quite considerable. If you and I know that we are the last generation to do anything about it, then I would still choose a variant with a higher margin of security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u462	In general, it's always easier that when you say that you have to spend money on something, you don't come to collect it first, because then you have to spend it twice. The most effective thing is if you do it wider, preferably worldwide.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u463	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u464	But at least European, because otherwise you might cause a company to scrap its jobs here and go on somewhere else in the same old-fashioned way. Then you have no tax revenue and less employment and just as much CO emissions. So I think you should force those companies, seduce them with a stick behind the door of a tax, that they put the money they have not into a tax but into a greening. I fully agree with Mr Klaver that in 2050 we would prefer to be CO-free, especially in terms of energy generation, but then I have the next short question. Are we finally going to get rid of these obsolete taboos? Are we going to say this honestly to our fellow citizens and are we going to include nuclear energy in the mix? Can you explain to me, then, that I am not just talking about sun and wind, because that just doesn't fit how you do it, not with technology where there is a 60% chance that it might still be invented before then, but which is just there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u465	I always find this a bit of a discussion that distracts. It's pretending there's a taboo on nuclear power. For 12 years, three sites in the Netherlands have been designated for the construction of a nuclear power plant. There is not yet a sign "to buy" on those parts of the land and there is not yet a brochure of "come here to build a nuclear power station." So we have three areas, the area around Borssele, the Maasvlakte and the Eemshaven. A nuclear power plant could have been built there for 12 years. Zero interest. Zero! I get it. In the last ten years no nuclear power station has been delivered throughout Europe. For example, the nuclear power plant built in Hinkley in the UK is co-financed by the Chinese. The costs are rising. When we look at the cost development of renewable energy or of nuclear energy, we see that the cost of renewable energy has only fallen in recent years and that the cost of nuclear energy continues to increase. In other words, you act as if there is a taboo, but there is no taboo. For me, nuclear power is not the solution. If there's a company here that wants to start a nuclear power plant, I'd say "subscribe," but I don't think anyone's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u466	The latter is true, because we have made all kinds of rules that make it so unattractive in advance to begin with that there is no company in it. You can also see that governments are not always reliable in sticking to rules that are pre-established because all kinds of rules are introduced during construction. So I am glad that Mr Klaver also wants to do something about it, so that it is not just a theoretical option. Then I'd like to see him tomorrow with a motion about how excited he is about it. But more importantly: besides a whole story that no company wants it now because the conditions we have are so unattractive that I wouldn't want it either, and that there would never have been a windmill if we hadn't supported it and spent money on it from the start, whatever you have to do with nuclear energy, I hear him skilfully avoiding the question which is the alternative, except to point out wind and sun. We could do that if we had huge batteries, which do not exist, and ten times as many hectares of land in the Netherlands. So every time he talks about 2050, about faster and harder, about having to talk about harder and about companies that need to do more, he also has to explain to his constituents how he really wants to achieve that energy generation in 2050.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u467	I will also deal with that last point in a moment, but first I would like to say a few words about nuclear energy. I am not saying that we should remove all kinds of thresholds for this now; not at all. I don't think that's the answer. I'll tell you what I think it should be, but it's not because there hasn't been any government money in the last few years. Look at France. There, too, there are no new developments to build new nuclear power plants. That's for a reason. That's because the business case is what I have to say to a VVD guy! For a nuclear power plant doesn't count around. It didn't, say, ten years ago, five years ago, and it still doesn't. And I do not intend to go against this kind of energy. I don't think that's a good idea. This has had a huge opportunity. If you ask "should we continue to invest in technological research?', Then I say, yes, I'm very much in favour of that. I think that is really very good, because when we talk about thorium, for example, we talk about thorium. It's been discussed for 40 years. If there was a breakthrough on that, I'd love it. So we are very much in favour of funding research, but just very concrete: the business case for a nuclear power plant is not there. Period. Then how I see the power supply in front of me. I shall now quote Mr Dijkhoff; that is the somewhat longer answer and a somewhat complicated answer. That starts with the fact that you not only need a smart grid here in the Netherlands, an energy network, but in Europe. Because sometimes there are surpluses in Germany or deficits in France and the other way around. And then you need to be able to switch regional connections very quickly. There is a very big step to be taken on your energy infrastructure. The second is that we do need to invest heavily in this green hydrogen. Whether that's gonna work isn't at all certain at all, nor when we can get that flying. That's what we're going to need to eventually have enough storage capacity to absorb the peaks. I want to put a lot of money into that. I hope that the growth fund, which should also have been a hydrogen fund of mine, to make it even smaller, is fully committed to green hydrogen. And the third point is that I think this is the least nice answer, but I have to say that in the meantime we are not getting rid of gas dependence, for example Norway. That is still a good country, but to a lesser extent still Russia, because you need gas plants to have a baseload to absorb peaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u468	Finally, Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u469	Yeah, finally. I will not go into the business case argument. We will explain in detail next week how it can be achieved. But Mr Klaver's alternative has two problems. That business case is even more dramatic and green hydrogen is not an energy source. That's an energy carrier, with two conversion losses, like ir. Van Haga explained well when he interrupted me earlier. That means that if you're gonna use hydrogen, you're gonna need a lot more energy, you're gonna have to generate it. That is what I hear Mr Klaver say: sun and wind with smart grids. So that means sun and wind for the Netherlands in other countries, because in the Netherlands it's not going to fit, physically just not, unless there are huge breakthroughs. And then just buy the nuclear energy from other countries that put it there. Then be honest that you have a mix of sun, wind and nuclear energy, but are dependent on other countries because you prefer not to see it and do not want to have it around.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u470	Just the facts. What I like about the debate with Mr Dijkhoff is that we can at least agree on the facts in general. For example, France has a number of nuclear power plants. So in our energy mix, also in the Netherlands, throughout Europe, there is nuclear energy. That's true. I'm not gonna say that's not true. This will continue to be the case in the years to come, because I do not see any movement to close power stations there very quickly. That is not, by the way, what I am now advocating. So yes, in the coming years nuclear energy will also simply be part of that energy mix. If there are other countries that say 'we want a nuclear power plant, because it fits in with our energy mix', that will continue to be part of that European energy mix. The only thing is that there is currently no country in the process of building a nuclear power plant. The UK, yes, that's right. And France, the country where nuclear energy was about invented as energy supply? No hair on their heads that remembers it, for it doesn't count.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u471	The CDA's narrow majority-elected new list leader, Mr De Jonge, said in his campaign for that list leadership that he looked like about 1 million people would be added to the Netherlands via immigration in the coming years. He felt that these should be located in the region, not only in the large cities but also in the region. I have that on video ready and we can take a look at it. But that is, of course, the pro-immigration agenda of the new CDA list leader.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u472	Just to be safe, I'm Jesse Klaver from GroenLinks. Maybe you're mistaken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u473	I actually thought I was talking! I was very curious to see how Mr Klaver is looking at this, especially in view of his plea for reducing CO emissions. If you want to emit less CO as the Netherlands, then it is logical that you are very sceptical about immigration, because the more people come to the Netherlands, the more people there live in the Netherlands and so the more houses there are and the more cars there are and the more food there needs to be produced and the more power there needs to be, and so on. These are all things that CO emits and because you have the image in your head that that is bad, I would like to ask if you are against immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u474	To everything that has been asked about Hugo de Jonge, he can answer for himself. I'm looking forward to it already. And am I against immigration? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u475	Do you see the problem of increasing population in the Netherlands? We are now with 17.2 or 17.3 million people in the Netherlands, and in the vision of the new CDA list leader there will be 18 or 19 million. Estimates have also been made by the CBS showing that we are moving to 20 million under unchanged VVD/CDA open borders policy. That means more CO emissions and more consumption. Do you see a problem with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u476	I have a feeling that a Forum for Democracy film is being cut, but well: I like to figure it out. I think it's kind of special that you picked me for that. Let me address the issue of population size seriously, because you have made that point a number of times before. I'm not worried about the Netherlands, to be honest. In fact, with the ageing population coming, I think it's very important that... Immigration will be important for our future. That's the first thing. But population growth worldwide is indeed a problem. For example, Ethiopia's population is going to double from 100 million to 200 million and Nigeria has 700 million inhabitants at the end of this century. That is as much as the United States and the EU together. I am very concerned about the pressure it places on those countries, about the tensions it brings and about what it means there for food supplies. That is why, for example, I strongly support development aid and I believe that we should focus on women's sexual reproductive rights, because that is why we are strengthening the control of people there. In doing so, we are helping these countries to curb their population. If you ask where the problems are, the answer is: they are there and not in the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u477	In this type of growth scenario, the Netherlands remains one of the most densely populated countries in the world. So it is true that there are relatively a lot of people living in the Netherlands. If you see it as a problem that CO is being emitted, then you will have to recognise it, purely as a starting point. Do you recognise that if there are more people living in a country in the Netherlands, according to the new list leader of the CDA, there should be 20 million people, that there will be more consumption, more industry, more cars, more food and more power consumption and more housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u478	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u479	That's more CO. If you want to reduce CO, if you have it in your head that you want it because you believe that it has something to do with climate, is it absolutely obvious that you also need to find something about immigration and hence population growth? Of course, the CO isn't like that, but you believe that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u480	That's what I think, isn't it? I just said that. It's true that if there are more people, there will be consequences. Those people use transportation and they have to live. That has all kinds of consequences, because they all have an ecological footprint. That is why I believe that we need to focus on saving and greening our energy supply, because it ensures that the impact of how we live on the climate is as limited as possible. But you're not going into my point. You act as if we are going to have a very big problem here in the Netherlands. Do you know what the biggest problem is? How we use the space. I therefore assume that you will come up with a plea to centralise the whole way in which we deal with planology in the country down, the planning of where we are going to build. There has to be another old-fashioned ministry of VROM to ensure that all those people who have to live here live here in a way that has as little impact on climate and nature as possible and that the quality of life is increased. That is the task for the Netherlands. But if we look at that, you are not going to look at population growth in Africa, then we have to do something about it, because that is the biggest problem. This means focusing on development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u481	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u482	I fully agree that demographic infernos are coming in such countries and that this is a major problem. I couldn't agree more. But I also think it is a problem in the Netherlands. I think that there are quite a lot of people living in the Netherlands, that it is quite busy and full and that the country is threatening to close down in all possible ways. So I think there are a lot of reasons to be sceptical about ever-increasing population growth. I would like to try one more time to bring this to your attention. Human life means CO emissions, because people emit CO. When we exhale, we exhale CO. We're actually small internal combustion engines. We do what a car does in big, so to speak, when people are small. We're releasing CO. So if you want less of all those things that you say CO emissions are going to be CO-neutral by 2050, then you can't ignore that as more people come to the Netherlands because of the immigration policy that you and Hugo de Jonge advocate, there will also be more CO emissions as a result?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u483	That actually calls for fewer interruptions, because we will have fewer CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u484	I cannot match Mr Baudet's imagination, so it must be up to me to make a completely wrong statement. There is indeed a connection to the way of life. If there's more people coming, there's more CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u485	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u486	I already have...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u487	Thank you. That was indeed the point I wanted to see confirmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u488	... about 16 times admitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u489	Thank you, both of you. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u490	Well, Mr President, he has just been able to interrupt me completely and I would like to finish my point. I'm so done with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u491	You can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u492	Let me have a little fun to talk about this, too. Look, when it comes to population growth, Mr Baudet is right that it has an impact on CO. I think we can tackle this in the Netherlands with all the measures we take. The biggest problem of a country like the Netherlands is the land surface. How do we ensure that people can live here properly and move around? That means you have to come up with plans right now, for example, that's in our investment fund to keep the Randstad mobile. That means you have to invest in public transport. But Mr Baudet does not go into my words when I talk about the great consequences in Africa and about the great importance of development cooperation, because you are looking away from them in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u493	It seems to me that this point has been sufficiently changed. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u494	I do not agree with that. I do not think development aid is the way to mitigate the population explosion in Africa. I think the opposite is the case: if they have more food and money, they will have more children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u495	Thank you. I suggest you move on, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u496	It is, in fact, wrong in all possible ways and in many other ways. Mr. Chairman. We have also talked about living in the interruptive debates, and I would like to come back to that. I wonder, also in relation to sustainability, why the landlord levy doesn't go away. We need to invest much more in sustainable housing. In this context, it would also be very good to bring back the crisis measure to reduce VAT on the sustainable cultivation and adaptation of houses, homes and buildings. We did that in the previous crisis. I believe it was then MP Carola Schouten who was a warm advocate for this, alongside other MPs. It is a measure that we really know works economically, but also when it comes to making houses more sustainable. This morning, together with Mr Segers, I proposed the introduction of a national programme to isolate houses. I would also like to call on the cabinet to stop the increase in rents and to demolish the market from housing. And why doesn't the Cabinet keep the promise to raise salaries in healthcare? Why is an expensive promise from spring broken? I think this is a motion of censure on the people who work in the care sector. Nurses have been working their asses off day and night. We have all, not just the cabinet, but all the parties here, made a promise to appreciate them better. That was really about more than a bonus or a pat on the back. That was about structural salary improvement. And why can't I see that in the budget? Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister of Business started this cabinet period with the abolition of dividend tax, a gift for our multinationals. But the gift wasn't unpacked. Thank you very much, but I don't need it. That texted the Unilever-ceo to the Prime Minister. We were all thinking in the opposition: yes, we're done, it's off the table. But to our surprise, business received a $2 billion voucher for the reduction of the tax on profits. Because this cabinet is so generous. And what do we see now? Not a reduction in income tax but a reduction in business taxes. Whatever form it takes, it remains 2 billion relief for businesses. The only thing that changes is the colour of the gift wrap paper. And if you're thinking, it can't be any crazier... Yes, it can. It could be much crazier. Companies will also receive a $300 million jubilee fund. The cabinet itself writes that it is not yet clear whether a problem will be solved. We have money, but no problem yet. And for all the problems we do have, there's no money. Because the cabinet tells care workers that there is no money for the promise of the salary increase. The cabinet says to young people who are desperately looking for an affordable home, a promise from our Constitution: that is all we can do. And the cabinet says to the climate generation, who wants to keep us to the promise of Paris: ho, ho, not too fast, careful, calm down. All promises that won't be fulfilled. But one promise is: the promise of 2 billion for the big business. It's beginning to look a bit like weeds between the curbs. You take it off, you think you're done, but next year it'll be back. Mr. Chairman. After ten years of crisis management, it's time for new leadership, climate leadership. In the past period, we saw the climate strikers who took action to stop global warming. We saw demonstrations of Black Lives Matter against institutional racism and for equality throughout the country. We see a new generation rising up, not satisfied with a system that suppresses and exhausts the earth. This generation gives hope, lots of hope. When this generation comes together with all those teachers and nurses and all those people in the public sector who are asking for new solidarity, there is a movement that cannot be stopped. Then the new generation gets a voice, power and influence. Then the era of economics is over. Corona has taught us how vulnerable we are as a society, but it has also shown us what we are capable of. 'Cause we can do a lot. Anything's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u497	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I see Mr Segers, Mr Wilders and Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u498	First, a small question about the counter-budget. That too is choosing in scarcity and I understand that. You can't do everything. But you have also talked about the younger generation and the heavy burdens that lie on their shoulders. It is a counter-budget of three parties. Two out of three want to get rid of the loan system. I missed that in the counter-budget. Is that still a wish of GroenLinks and of the other parties that have tabled the counter-budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u499	I don't feel entirely free to speak for the others, but I think it is the same for the others. For us, at least. It is not in this counter-budget because it is a very big system change. I do not think it is credible to propose it now as an amendment to this budget. It will come back in our election programme and will be committed to the elections. We're gonna have to settle that in another cabinet. We've said we want something different than what's in there right now. We keep that promise, just not in the counter-budget as it is here. I hope you still do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u500	Sure! And that's gonna be in our election program. It is a nice answer to all the tricky questions that I may get: if it is a difficult system change, we'll put it off for another year and then it comes later. But that aside, it doesn't matter. A second point. It was about the human image and that we learned in this corona crisis what solidarity is and help for each other. When it comes to material subjects, I often feel very related. Then it's about social policy, about finance. I find it sometimes difficult to follow. How can you find this with that human image, for example, in the area of prostitution policy? Because that is an excellent form of economics. Another issue is a bill put on the table by the D66 Group, which is about completed life. This is an ideal phase of vulnerability, in which people are dependent. It's about self-determination, it's about help. It is precisely this time that has shown that circumstances and context are so crucial and that it is so important that you help each other and are there for each other. If you can take away the reason to come to such a wish, is that a moment for reconsidering the position of GroenLinks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u501	Now I will carefully weigh my words, because this is a special bill and a very difficult subject. It's a medical-ethical subject that's really about life and death. My starting point is that I think that choice should lie with people themselves. But let me say something about how I think this debate should be conducted politically. As long as I am chairman of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I will not force any of my colleagues to vote in favour of such a proposal. I'm in favour of it, let's face it. But I think that each of the 150 MPs should make this assessment for themselves. I do not think it is appropriate to talk here about "the" position of GroenLinks, of D66 or of the Christian Union. This is getting so close, please let us not be party politics here. That is why I think it is very nice that it is a legislative proposal from an individual Member of Parliament. I will never blame anyone in the Christian Union if he says 'I am voting for it, because that fits what I believe in and what I stand for', just as I will not blame colleagues in our country if they make a different assessment. In other words, I believe that this debate should be conducted in all honesty and honesty and that each of us in the Chamber should make an individual assessment of how it is handled. I hope that, in all these cases, we will have the debate together in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u502	That's the way you conduct the debate. That's very respectful and open. But it is also a social debate and a political debate on content. So it's not just about how you finally get to the vote. We'll see. The bridge I wanted to make was with this corona time, where we've seen that it makes all the difference if you're there for each other and if you take care of each other. Just during the crisis, when it was very exciting, we saw that suicide rates were falling, when we were very afraid that they might rise. Why? There was attention, there was care for each other and that did something to people. Maybe I should make it more personal. You say that you do not speak for your entire group because you do not know exactly how people will vote. But is it a point of consideration for you when we know that those environmental factors, that context, are so decisive? Shouldn't we do everything we can to make sure that everyone knows: there's always help and support for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u503	You will address me when I speak about this as one of the 150 Members of Parliament. Context is important. The argument you always make in this discussion is loneliness. It's about people who don't have the support of their environment anymore. It's the thought of people that they don't want to be in life anymore and they want to put an end to it. I'm just saying, I know I'm failing people with that. That's a terrible thought, and that's the path you'd never want to go on. At the same time, we should not pretend that this is the situation that everyone is in, because that is not true. That is why I believe that the attitude you have and Mr Dijkstra's attitude are not opposite. I think we both need it. I think we are facing an incredible challenge in this society to be closer together so that people do not feel lonely. And if people don't see it in life, we have the task of being so close that they can find the energy or joy again. At the same time, we must also stand up for those people who do not care and for those who do have access to their lives is the solution. That is my answer to the question. I actually agree with you both and I'm not going to let you force me to make a choice for one or the other. I think we both need it very much. If we choose only your path, without the option that Mrs Dijkstra wants, it would be too little. But if we only had Mrs Dijkstra's wish, but did not do what you said, then I would also be afraid of a situation that I am not happy with and which I would not say is my country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u504	The initiative proposal is still being discussed in the Chamber, so the debate is coming back extensively. You were done, weren't you? Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Wilders and then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u505	A few weeks ago, or let it be a few months ago, we had a racism debate here in the House of Representatives on what happened in America. Mr Klaver remembers that. I was talking about Mr Akwasi. Mr Akwasi had then said on Dam Square that if he met Black Piet, he would kick him in the face. I think that's a literal quote. Mr Klaver said then, and I can still see him standing at the interrupting microphone: but Mr Akwasi is a word artist. I would actually like to ask Mr van GroenLinks whether he still believes that Mr Akwasi is mainly a word artist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u506	Yeah, and I'll tell you why. Akwasi has been fighting racism and equality for many years. He's said a lot of bad things in the past few years. I'm not gonna take responsibility for everything he's done, but he's very often chosen an atonement tone. It will then go wrong on Dam Square, and I see that Mr Wilders will be there when the chickens are there to put him away. Yeah, he's a word artist. At the same time, what he said there was wrong. In the meantime, he has admitted that and has apologized. That's more than what you've done for all those statements that disgust me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u507	It is good to see what GroenLinks thinks is a word artist. That's someone who says he'd like to train someone to liquidate Santa Claus, someone who says people should ride into the entrance of Santa Claus, someone who says, "Can someone shoot Santa Claus off the boat this year? I put $500 on his head," someone who says, "What am I gonna do if I kill Black Pete," someone who says, "Black Pete needs to die," someone who says, "Are you gonna shoot Black Pete or what?" And someone who says, "Every day when I wake up, I strike a cross and say: fire, burn Black Pete." That's what GroenLinks calls a word artist. GroenLinks says it's great that he's not being prosecuted. I assume the logical consequence is that you are this criminal, extremist, total lunatic... 'Cause that's Akwasi, a total psycho. You want to shoot people, you want to kill people, you want to have people executed, you're a criminal and you're a total psycho. You call him a word artist. That says more about you than about me. So you think it's right that he shouldn't be prosecuted by the D.A.'s office?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u508	Three cases. First of all, we had a tradition of not attacking people who cannot defend themselves here in the Chamber. That was a beautiful tradition. Second. Of course, I'm not behind these tweets. I find them disgusting and I don't have anything to do with them. But to define who someone is on the basis of these tweets, I'm not going along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u509	Is that your answer? Is that the best you have in the house? I ask a question about Moroccans and you call me a...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u510	I wasn't finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u511	It was my turn. Is that what you have in your house?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u512	I wasn't finished. I'd make three points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u513	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u514	You also asked me if I'm glad he's not being prosecuted. Maybe that's politically the most relevant thing. I don't have an opinion on that. I am not talking about whether or not people should be prosecuted. That choice is up to the D.A. We would be wise here in the Chamber not to have views on this. The D.A.'s gonna decide whether or not we're going to prosecute. If people disagree, they can start an Article 12 procedure. That's not up to me. So I have no idea whether or not he will be convicted and whether or not he will be fined. That's up to the D.A. And that, Mr. Wilders, is the rule of law. Sometimes that's annoying, because sometimes you'd like to talk about something. But as politicians, we don't. I certainly don't; you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u515	Are you ready? Is that really your answer? I thought there was something else coming up. Is that really the best that GroenLinks can come up with? I asked a question about Moroccans, and you just called me a racist. You say that it is a good thing that he has been brought to justice, because that is the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u516	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u517	It's my turn now. Then you have here an Akwasi who almost says: kill Black Piet and shoot him off the boat; €500 for the one who executes him. And then all of a sudden, that's up to the D.A. Hypocrite you are. You're the biggest hypocrite in the world. How the hell can you say that? You also know that Akwasi will not be prosecuted because the prosecutor who made the decision not to prosecute him was on the board of an anti-racism club in Amsterdam for years, including the time on 1 July when Akwasi made that statement. May I ask how you feel about that? Isn't that big fat corruption? Those are dirty games, aren't they? That's class justice, isn't it? On 1 July, Mr Akwasi made the statement "if I meet him, I'll kick Black Piet in his face." That's a big call for violence. Then a friend of his from Kick Out Zwarte Piet, for whom he had acted, sat with that prosecutor in the discrimination agency of Amsterdam. That's why he wasn't prosecuted. That stinks, doesn't it? They're all your friends, all those anti-discrimination, left-wing, Marxist clubs, but that stinks, doesn't it, Mr. Clover? You should at least say that that's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u518	I hope, in all honesty, that anti-racism is not a lefty thing. You say that you are also against racism and discrimination. Oh, thank God. That is a universal human right. That's what we all have to be for. It's actually waiting for you to sit on the board of a hotline of discrimination, because it's a common battle that we have to fight with each other. So please stop putting that away as a left-wing hobby. That says a lot more about you. Anti-racism is not a left-wing hobby. That's a human right we all have to defend. We must prevent racism. You are now asking me to judge why a prosecutor has reached a verdict. I can't. It is not at all my role or my place to fantasize with who she has been on a board, what has been talked about or how those relationships run. That's up to the D.A. One more thing. You say that I have said that it is right that you have been convicted. I didn't say it was right for you to be convicted. That's the whole point, Mr. Wilders: I'm not about that; no one is about that here. It's up to the D.A. to determine that. If a judge makes a ruling, it's up to the judge, not us. This has kept our society healthy for a long time. I am proud to be able to say abroad that I am here with you in a parliament. Yeah, you can do that in the Netherlands. Your ideas disgust me. I do not agree, but at least we share a view on the rule of law and democracy. If you stand here to argue, to fulminate, to the rule of law, say that prosecutors are not good, can't be trusted, that judges are corrupt, then you destroy more than you like. You say that to the rest of society: you see, there is class justice; you are treated differently and you do not have to stick to it if the police give you a clue, if the prosecutor says anything or if the judge makes a ruling. These are basic principles of our rule of law. You throw them away with ease. Be careful what you throw away, I say. Be careful what you throw away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u519	GroenLinks' colleague, Mr Klaver, is turning around again. He's turning around again. He comes up with all these stories with what I would have said. It is now about what Mr Akwasi said. You called him a word artist a few months ago. You still call him a word artist. It's too disgusting for words anyway. The man wants to kill people. He wants to execute people. He wants to put a price on someone's head. Then you say very easily: well, I do not agree with it, but I insist that it is a word artist. That's too sick for words, isn't it? Then I tell you that man, that criminal, that crazy lunatic, because that's the one who wants to kill Santa Claus and put a price on his head, isn't being prosecuted because a boyfriend of his was on the board with the district attorney, and then you suddenly say, "I'm not going over it." Do you know who's destroying the rule of law? Do you know how the Dutch' confidence in the rule of law crumbles? This is done by politicians like you, who call a criminal a word artist, who close their eyes to a board of a discrimination agency where his boyfriend sits with the officer. You, the representative of GroenLinks, are destroying the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u520	You'll be convicted. I'm not calling you a criminal. I never did. I'm not gonna do that now. You're still a politician, despite what you've done. You're still a politician. That goes for more people. You know what's bothering me, Mr. Wilders? The tricky thing about you is that something isn't true until you're right. Actually, there was only one outcome that would have been good, and that was that the judge was right about you. That's not how it works. The judge makes an assessment on the basis of the laws and regulations we have. You can't like that, but that's how it goes here. You have one thing for all those other people who feel that the judge has not handled their case properly: we can make laws here. You can change things. Do your job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u521	GroenLinks has today presented several plans with the Christian Union and with D66. That's great. I appreciate the effort at cooperation. I would also like to say: look at the ban on fireworks that we have filed together. That was really good. But sometimes things go wrong. My question is about something that goes wrong, namely about the mink. GroenLinks, together with the CDA, has asked the cabinet for an attractive stopper arrangement. Fair is fair, GroenLinks has eventually also supported the motion of the Party for Animals and the Labour Party that says that you have to stop breeding on the basis of public health. You don't have to compensate so much, but it can be as good as the other entrepreneurs. GroenLinks has therefore supported both plans. Both motions have been adopted. We can see now that the cabinet is using this double signal from the Chamber. Society is very angry. Why do all those mink owners get a million dollars, while other entrepreneurs get nothing? So I have the next question. Is GroenLinks willing to fight the cabinet together with the Party for Animals by saying: in this case, we just don't like working with the CDA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u522	I was about to say "hundred percent," but now that you say that, I disagree. You know how strong I am towards Farmers Defence Force, but also towards many other interests from the farming world. I often disagree with them. We have worked with the CDA, because it is precisely in these important times that I think it is important to keep building bridges. If you tell companies you're gonna shut them down, I don't think it's unreasonable if there's compensation for that. I didn't think it was when we tabled this motion, and I still don't think it is now. However, I have another point. Because I've seen what they're trying to pull out of it. I think that's a little too grim. In that sense, I do not regret the cooperation, but it is not true that the signal was: hand it over, because it is almost 5 December. I think you should make reasonable arrangements. These are just entrepreneurs. They too have taken risks. The government has been sending double signals all the time. I find that the hardest for farmers and especially for these mink breeders. So I'm in favour of making an arrangement, but this one could be a lot more sober than this one is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u523	Good. That's what I was hoping. We're in it the same way. It now appears that the infections caused by mink are even worse than the infections in family situations. However, the cabinet says: ho, people, you can't have any more parties at home, because that can't hurt public health. The cabinet must now really choose the route in which public health is paramount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u524	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u525	Based on that, you stop the breeding. You can certainly compensate for this, we also do that with other entrepreneurs.... but not those millions of dollars in fur bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u526	I couldn't agree more. I would love to be able to do this once and with the Party for Animals and with the CDA. I see enthusiasm with Mr Heerma. As solid as this debate seems, I think we should try to continue to bridge and operate in all honesty and with open vision towards those farmers. I'd love it if we could work together together for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u527	That's a nice closure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u528	We are waiting for the day when CDA, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals will find each other. I think that will solve all the problems in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u529	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u530	Amen, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u531	Thank you, Mr. Clover. Next comes Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA. I call Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u532	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 2020 is a year in which almost nothing has turned out to be normal. A storm of change rages over our country and around the world. There is a huge pandemic and an economic crisis of unprecedented magnitude at the moment. The uncertainty is palpable on all sides. People are afraid of diseases and afraid of their jobs. But I think 2020 will also go into history as a tilt moment, just like once the fall of the wall or 9/11. In our society, you feel the same way. You feel the hope of change. You can taste desire for another Netherlands: a little less hunted and a little more sammy. Corona has also made underlying suffering visible. This often happened at points where we already knew it was there, but it became even more penetratingly visible. It is the price we have paid with each other for too far-reaching individualisation and too far-reaching market thinking. Flex workers and boguszzp'ers who have become the cushions of our business cycle. A housing market that's completely stalled. A generation of young people with a student debt, a zero-hour contract and no perspective on an affordable home. But also loneliness among the elderly. Families who barely make ends meet. And, as it turned out in recent months, too much dependence on countries like China for many crucial products. A real change requires a vision of the Netherlands of the future or, as Mr Dijkhoff said, an idea. What kind of country do we want to live in in 20 years? What do we want our country to look like in 2040? Mr. Chairman. The other Netherlands is already under construction, in our society. The last busy place I went before we went into lockdown as a country, was in good Haags Lekkernassûh! Nice afters here in The Hague. In an old gymnasium in Witte de Withstraat, down here, hundreds of Hagenese distribute organic food that they buy together from local farmers. It is sustainable, it is cooperative and that makes healthy honest food that has been grown locally available for every fair. During the time of corona, the number of members of this cooperative doubled, the local food bank joined and started risk-sharing with the farmers from whom they take food. These are initiatives that show the strength of our society and show how much we can achieve if we work together. Founder Frederik says about this: people here are able to give something of value to others with what they have. Everyone gets better when no one asserts their own interests over others. The power of our society is truly unprecedented. I think that there is far too much cynicism about this, as if people would no longer have the time and the lust for it. I think that is also the misconception of individualisation. This reduces each other to selfish and profiteers in a hurry and reduces citizens to customers and potential fraudsters. Corona has changed a lot, but the call for more society has only become stronger. Now I come from an anti-revolutionary tradition, but I dare say that there is a revolution going on, a cooperative revolution. Smart cooperative platforms where ownership, risk and profit sharing combine, form the way of the future. Whether it's about our food supply, like Lekkernassûh!, or about the meal and package delivery, or the job economy: if you look at the Netherlands in 2040, you will not see a country of exploitation constructions or trash jobs. Then you see a cooperative society that has been discovered that new techniques can lead to the strengthening of solidarity rather than its erosion. To date, the platform economy has been hijacked far too much by companies that are actually not much more than a logistics intermediary. And yet the Ubers and the Deliveroos of this world have become huge companies that have all the strings, all the power and all the money in their hands. But those who are allowed to do the real work receive a low wage and usually have to do their job without any form of protection against disability or unemployment. This system is no good, and we all know it. The path to a fair labour market has been partly followed by the law that Minister Koolmees has led through the Chamber, but that is actually only a small step. The real road to a fair labour market follows from the Borstlap Committee's report. I am therefore pleased that Mr Dijkhoff has just opened this up to a new period. The basis for this change is growing in society. Only, when we talk about this cooperative revolution, there is much more going on: look at the Rabobank, at Achmea, but also at housing cooperatives. They are all looking for their cooperative roots and their social added value. But also see the citizens' initiative that I believe started last week by, among other things, Mei Li Vos of the PvdA to fight for the survival of the HEMA and to fight against loveless investors. It is by this route and this kind of initiative that we can talk about "the Dutch miracle" in 2040 and that they try to copy the "the polder model" everywhere in the world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u533	I'm a little confused right now, because I was actually prepared for a critical question about what I had read in the paper. I read that the CDA, led by Heerma, now wants to go back to the cooperatives, where farmers together with nature organisations have to solve the nitrogen problem. I thought that was very old-fashioned. And then I hear here that Mr Heerma is actually a frequent visitor of a vegan stronghold, Lekkernassûh! So what's going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u534	Hope will live here too, but the part you think is old-fashioned will be here any minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u535	Okay, then I'll hold off on...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u536	I will not say that it comes after my introduction, because Mr Asscher has had bad experiences with it last year. But in the part where I'm critical, I'll be right there. Then you can express your questions and your criticism of how old-fashioned that is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u537	Then I will hold off on my question and remain confused about the vegan eating habits of the group chairman of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u538	If I've been able to confuse you, I've had a good day anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u539	Anyway, yes, exactly!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u540	I see you standing, Mr. Azarkan. A very short question, because you are really one of those who has asked most of the questions, and that is not entirely the intention. It's gotta be a little bit alike.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u541	I understand you're not supposed to ask a lot of questions as a people's representative. I'll keep doing that anyway!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u542	No, you don't have any more rights than the rest, I mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u543	No, I understand. That's right, that's right. I also held back with Mr Klaver. Is Mr Heerma still dealing with housing? 'Cause he yelled a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u544	I will do the part that Mrs Ouwehand is looking forward to first, and then I will come to the people's housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u545	You'll come back to that, if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u546	That too is somewhere after my introduction. Society itself will also become cooperative in the coming years. Energy cooperatives, care cooperatives, residential cooperatives: in every village, city, neighborhood and neighborhood, people discover the added value of cooperation and citizenship. That is not because the government has decided that we have to take responsibility or because a participatory society has been proclaimed from above. It's because ownership and control are going to be claimed from society itself. That cooperative is also at the heart of our polder model. In the middle of the last century, the social partners were assigned a wide range of public-law tasks. In the last 20 years, they have largely been abolished, whereas polder thinking is more necessary than ever. All kinds of ministers I am looking at two Deputy Prime Ministers for years to gain support for government decisions. But finding acceptance is not the same as giving responsibility. Ownership and control are inextricably linked; look in the past year at everything that has had to do with nitrogen. In our country, there's just a struggle going on for scarce space, because we're a small country and we want a lot of it. We want to live there, we want to work there. Think of food supplies, recreate, build. And we've actually been hink-step-jumping from partial solution to partial solution for months. If you look closely at what goes wrong, you often see the same pattern: opposing interests and hard, uncompromising hobby from all sides. And then a salomon judgment of politics, after which the lobbying continues, with often Minister Koolmees or Minister Schouten as the burden man or the last woman standing. Or another committee, another pass-through, and then something that a legal test will have to pass, but often not the practice test. We have walked into a swamp, but I think we can pull that cart out of the mud together, with a platform where public and private stakeholders come together to implement political objectives. But I think it's a rediscovery of the cooperative idea, so you should also have new stakeholders at the table. Farmers, nature organisations, consumer organisations, local government: each with responsibility, responsibility and control. If solutions are to be found, they will also have to be made universally binding in order to avoid having freeriders. In my view, this is a way of the future, although I can see that Mrs Ouwehand is ready to say that it is very old-fashioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u547	Well, Mr. Heerma and I studied together. People might not know that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u548	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u549	So I know him a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u550	It's been a long time. We're pretty old too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u551	It's certainly, certainly long ago, but I remember him as...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u552	You might see it more off to me than to you. That's true again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u553	I remember him as someone who was wise...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u554	Haha!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u555	Sure you do, sure you do!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u556	I was just about to say that wisdom comes with years. But I can't get over it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u557	... someone who can see the long lines. Now it turns out we can still have dinner together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u558	Tell me more about that period, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u559	It was just the propedeuse. In my opinion, Mr Heerma was going to study Politicology and I was going to study Policy, Communication and Organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u560	Oh, I thought it was cultural anthropology. Then I've learned something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u561	Yes. And one of us didn't graduate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u562	And who's that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u563	Are we gonna keep that a secret?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u564	No, I wasn't. So much for the RTL Boulevard. However, I am truly surprised that I do not know Mr Heerma about the analysis I read in the newspaper. Maybe he can explain. Why does he have the impression that I assume that it is behind it that farmers have not in any way taken any decisions on all the measures taken over the last 20 years? Is the problem that farmers were not heard before policy was made? What is the problem he is now saying: put farmers and nature organisations together; then we will have a solution to the problem of nitrogen? What analysis is under there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u565	It's an analysis that goes wider than just the nitrogen problem. That is why I referred to Minister Koolmees. We're seeing more and more of this. In the past, responsibility lay in society. That was exactly the strength of our polder model. On the SER side, there were many public-law tasks. There was ownership for solutions and there was co-management. But now everyone's lobbying in The Hague. Then everyone is angry about the compromise that is being reached here or about something that is sometimes conceived at the drawing table. But after that, the lobby continues. We have seen that in balance under the Labour Market Act. Inner chambers were often recognized as a step in the right direction. But nobody outside wanted to take responsibility for a compromise found in The Hague. In addition, I believe that solutions are found by putting people at the table at the base and giving them control. Yeah, there's something old-fashioned in there. I admit that. It has elements of the old PBO structure in it. But where the old stakeholders were always labour and capital, the new dividing lines in this case often have to do with scarce space, food supply and nature. As far as I am concerned, nature organisations, especially those represented by members at the base, must also have control. If these solutions are devised, I am not talking about the objectives, but about their implementation, we are preventing us from getting into a situation where compromises are too much of a drawing-table solution, or are being lobbied, or are being carried out, or all three at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u566	But this is really old-fashioned. We've already tried this. Thinking together about whether we want purple or blue on the wall or still red, is not a problem. But there are, of course, tough legal objectives that the Netherlands simply needs to achieve. Then I do not understand the example that Mr Heerma cites in the interview in the newspaper. That animal feed measure could not count on support. He said that was stupid. That animal feed measure came because farmers refuse to accept that livestock should shrink. And then you have to do something. So that's the pattern all the time. There is no basis for the real interventions to be carried out. Then the executive of LNV tries to do something that they think is less drastic for the farmers; then they will not be angry. But then they'll be even angry. So you're not getting out. The Deltaplan Biodiversity contains the whole pro rata plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u567	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u568	It's an analysis, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to change it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u569	That saves some speaking time in your own term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u570	We're just pretending to be back in college. Let's have a good discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u571	Yeah, exactly. The question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u572	About the Deltaplan Biodiversity. Everyone's at the table. What's in it for you? Five herbal projects. It doesn't solve that mega problem. So what is Mr Heerma trying to do? To divert attention from the fact that the government has failed? Or does he really think it's a solution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u573	I always tend to say, when it's said something old-fashioned, funny, everything used to be better. Of course it isn't. If I am going to go a little further in my text, on the document on which Mr Azarkan wishes to intervene, I am in favour of the re-introducing of a Ministry of Housing. You could say, "That's old-fashioned." But I note that a great deal has gone wrong in terms of pure faith in the housing market. That's old-fashioned, too, but I think it's wise. There have been good reasons why, in the 1990s, I believe that until the beginning of the previous cabinet period, the PPE's were stopped as they were at the time. But the thought that arose after the war of laying down public-law responsibility in a polder, among stakeholders and stakeholders who have ownership and responsibility, I think is sensible. And I will try to spawn a little bit more of Mrs Ouwehand, then perhaps there is still some modernity to say that there should also be new stakeholders at the table. But I am really convinced that the dead end we are on now is in many more areas, where the government has to offer drawing table solutions or make a salomon judgment, while everyone continues to lobby against it. That is a very big problem between employers and employees. They are now getting more out of that; I am also looking at Minister Koolmees, who has had to run a lot of marathons before that. But it can be done on this file, and I really believe in it. That Mrs Ouwehand thinks that is old-fashioned is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u574	A brief question, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u575	In conclusion: perhaps it was also unfortunate that that interview appeared in the newspaper, just on the day that it turned out that this cooperative Rabobank had co-operatively written the own subsidy scheme of the Ministry of LNV to her own advantage. That may have been unfortunate timing, but I would like to say to Mr Heerma that I believe there are farmers with secure seats in the waterboards. And what happened? Against farmers' self-interest, the country has been shattered and farmers want money now, while perhaps a million people have to do €80,000 repairs to their homes because their homes have failed because they have been served unilaterally, while there was a whole cluster of all these different interests at the table. We studied political science together. Really! It is simply your job to do what needs to be done and to ensure that the Netherlands complies with the rules we have agreed and that we do not get caught by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u576	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u577	You cannot put that on the board of farmers and nature organisations, who then actually have to sit down and do the work of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u578	First of all, I find it very difficult to judge whether the timing of Mrs Ouwehand's interview was just wrong because she just saw something else, but last year I was also very critical about the Rabobank itself. You can really see that movements are trying to rediscover their cooperative character. I'm more optimistic about that than I was a year ago. But subsidiarity is one of the key concepts in my party. That you say that that absolutely cannot be done, that everything must be done here, all enforced nationwide, I simply fundamentally disagree with that. And the fact that you haven't fallen silent on my proposal... This might not have been the first party I thought would be willing to think about today's problems in this perhaps partly old-fashioned, perhaps modern way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u579	Mr President, I am not saying that about everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u580	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u581	I say that about those things that we were chosen to do here. We have been adopted to make difficult decisions, to serve the public interest and to look beyond the interests of tomorrow. I really don't get it, that parties like the CDA say: we just slide that back to society and we'll see what solution they come up with. Then I guess the Minister just has to sign off on it. We don't get paid for that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u582	The nice thing is that, precisely because of the responsibility for the public interest, I have come to this concept. I really think we are stuck at the moment, when this way of thinking not only requires support, but also gives control and ownership. What is envisaged by the relevant stakeholders can then also be made universally binding. I really think that this way of thinking is a way to be better in the future than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u583	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u584	So this has just grown from the sense of responsibility which Mrs Ouwehand has just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u585	A brief question from Mr Klaver. There was also a question from Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u586	Yeah, he wanted to talk about housing, but I'll get right to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u587	You'll come back to that? Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u588	I wanted to give a compliment and ask a question. First, a sincere compliment. What I really like about what Mr Heerma is doing is that he sets out a vision, but also dares to come back to things from the past. The longer your party goes, the more things you can come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u589	We can indeed talk about that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u590	I liked it very much when Mr Heerma talked about part of his own family history, when it was about housing, but also about the role that the CDA plays in the care as it is now organised and how it should be different. But I'd actually hoped that now comes my question: that I would see this APB the same way with nitrogen. The CDA could indicate that mistakes have been made in the past and that this calls for a different approach. This does not mean subsidiarity, decentralization and laying down with farmers and nature organisations. That approach calls for a more active government, for example with a ministry of VROM; I know that you are also interested in it. That when it comes to planning here in the Netherlands, the planning space, which is more centralized rather than putting it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u591	Clear. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u592	I'm finding it a little tricky. I believe that Mr Klaver's compliment is sincere. Thank you for that. I try to do my best in the time I have been given as an interim pope to think about what I can give to my party, but also to the country to help solve problems. Then you start an analysis of where it goes wrong. But just when it comes to that nitrogen, I've just tried to tell you where I think it's gonna go wrong. That is precisely because all responsibility lies with the government and is lobbied, protested and challenged from all sides. I did not say 'on one side', because we have also been able to see over the past year that certain groups of farmers have been behaving, even to colleagues of mine, which simply cannot be tolerated. But we are stuck when we think in this way that the salomon judgment can always be sought only in The Hague and that we must then seek acceptance. So precisely because of what Mr Klaver says, I have tried to figure out how else to do it. In part, I go back to things from the past that we may have abolished too much rücksichtslos, while there were also reasons to stop, and in part I look for new ways to solve problems. I'll be right back at the Ministry of VROM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u593	Then I will go to Mrs Van Brenk and I will see Mr Jetten. Mrs. Van Brenk, congratulations on your birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u594	I'd like to go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u595	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very nice. It's also a party today. I liked the story about the cooperatives, about involving people from the region more. I'm looking. I put a question to your colleague from the VVD and he said: yes, we have such an investment fund, but we cannot actually come out as a coalition ourselves. Surely it would be wonderful if we asked a lot of people what we should spend that investment fund on. Wouldn't this be an excellent subject for the elections, which each party can show what it wants to spend the fund on and which voters can give a ruling on it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u596	I think that for all parties they are going to make an election programme in which they indicate what their ideas are for the future and that on that basis the voter makes his choice. That's the heart of the election. However, I personally believe that the investment fund, the growth fund, as has been proposed, is sensible, in order to prevent it from being so owned by politics that what we have seen before in the FES fund is happening. At the same time, there are questions that are going to play rightfully here, in tax plans and effects on what governance looks like from the side of the Chamber. I heard the word "budget law" fall here. Those are very legitimate questions. There will be a lot of debates on this when such a fund is being drawn up. But that you are using that fund to really invest in knowledge, innovation and infrastructure to strengthen the earning capacity and jobs of the future, I think that is wise. Otherwise, in 20 years' time, I've been talking about 2040. This is not a discussion about "Look what we've done to strengthen the economy of your time," but about "Look how we've spent your money now."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u597	This ability to earn is also what we then show, what all these citizens can do. Those are also young people, who can choose from 18. Anyone can vote. You can say that the program of the CDA is the most appealing to you, or the program of the SP or that of 50PLUS. It would be nice if we could say: these billions go that way. That gives us a very broad support. That so much more beautiful than that we park it at a very small club that's going to decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u598	We must not exaggerate the size of this growth fund. It is not as if the total budget is now committed and that no electoral programme can set out what parties' plans are for the future. I think that's a little overzealous. I also know that's not what Mrs Van Brenk means. Naturally, electoral programmes require all parties to come to the doctor with their plans. They must join the electorate to say: these are our plans, this is what we want to do to invest, and this is what we want to reform. I don't see how that fund would have made that disappear. I think it is wise what happens to such a growth fund to invest in the earning capacity of the future. If Mrs Van Brenk has any other ideas about this, she can also bring them into those debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u599	Finally. The earlier story the CDA held was: we want more involvement from the bottom up and more participation, and we want to lay it down with citizens, people and stakeholders. These are the stakeholders of the future. The whole of the Netherlands has the right to earning capacity, has the right to participate. It would be very nice if the CDA too had that guts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u600	I don't see the connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u601	I would like to continue with the interruptions by Mrs Ouwehand and Mr Klaver on how to organise this social dialogue. This cabinet has shown with the pension agreement and Climate Agreement how useful it can be if you involve social dialogue in major decisions. But we have seen worse examples in the past and also recently. Because if you only let farmers and nature organisations talk about the nitrogen crisis, then who stands up for the nitrogen interests of all those other entrepreneurs who also need space? Who is to prevent only generous buy-out arrangements? In the past, 15 years ago, when the Social Partners were abolished, the social partners agreed at some point on the abolition, but then the bill was placed on workers and young people who were not at the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u602	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u603	How does Mr Heerma prevent social dialogue leading to blockage brigades?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u604	Thank you for this question. This is a well thought out question. Mr Jetten does not say no either, but he says something very substantial. Ownership and control are about giving responsibility but also about taking responsibility. Two things are of great importance here. I mentioned a number of stakeholders, but it has to be for me... That's why I said in the interview in the Volkskrant: it's not a blueprint. The relevant stakeholders need to sit at the table, otherwise you run the risk of being pushed away from stakeholders who are not at the table. The climate agreement on nuclear energy may well be able to say that again, because they were not at the table. Only, what went wrong in the polder with the Vulture, is that control was still there sometimes, while responsibility was no longer there. And you can always have a nice party with other people's money. So the relevant stakeholders have to sit at the table, but control, responsibility and ownership must go hand in hand. Otherwise, you will indeed get the risks Mr Jetten calls you. That means you have to think very carefully about how to shape it. But if you shape it well, then I am deeply convinced that we are coming out better than we have actually seen it on the dossiers of both ministers in recent years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u605	Mr Jetten, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u606	Yes, Chairman, briefly. Control and responsibility in this social dialogue seem to me to be a very good framework, but if that social dialogue does not lead to anything, I wonder if Mr Heerma also recognises this, then it is ultimately this house that needs to cut that knot, so that we are not talking about labour market reform for another four years in the next Chamber, for example, and the Borstlap report has not ended up in a very deep drawer again and nothing changes to bridge that gap between fixed and flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u607	What, in my opinion, has been part of the misconception that we have been in for decades, which also affects the debate on the homo-economics, that Mr Segers has just been engaged in, that no one can take responsibility for the collective because everyone is only thinking about his own interests and we are the only ones here in this Parliament who have responsibility for the collective. Then everything goes upstairs and so you get what you believe in, namely that everyone only thinks about themselves. I think that is based on a wrong view of people, but also on society. I mentioned the examples of Lekkernassûh! but also from housing corporations to the HEMA initiative, which shows that people who want to share responsibility if you give it to people under the right conditions. In the end, this is always within the frameworks and objectives that politics has created. But the good aspects of our polder model have been thrown away over the past decades, sometimes because the bad aspects that had arisen were certainly cause for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u608	I see Mr Azarkan, but Mr...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u609	I'm really gonna be on the housing business. I promise Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u610	That's a promise. He's incredibly threatening looking at when is it coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u611	I also find it slightly intimidating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u612	Haha. Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u613	That cooperative revolution, that other Netherlands, also calls for another government. Because whether it's about that care cooperative in Ravenstein or Lekkernassûh! here in The Hague, mostly the rules form the wall they then run into. Care for each other is welcomed, but it is not allowed to drip each other's eyes, because that is a medical act. The building of Lekkernassûh! was made available by the municipality, because it was such a fantastic initiative. But now, many years later, they are still in a legal conflict with that same municipality until I think it is a ruling again this week, because the municipality does not come out of the legal knot whether or not a hospitality permit can and may not be issued. In the nineteenth century, Alexis de Tocqueville describes a government that breaks down every initiative, not by harshly forbidden or severe punishments, but by meticulous rules and regulations that guide and guide behavior, and deprive you of the will to break through it. More space for society therefore requires not only breaking the iron laws of the market, but also a different government. I think that the analysis of Herman Tjeenk Willink in his booklet Groteger think, doing smaller is quite right. The government is too much run like a company. The citizen has become a customer at a point of contact, where the government has sometimes become too addicted to efficiency, targets and forms. In his booklet Tjeenk Willink also refers to the beautiful film I, Daniel Blake. That's exactly what this is about. It's a subtle satire that hurts because it's so true. Daniel Blake is a somewhat older furniture maker and widower in the northeast of England, who, after a heart attack, needs the help of the state for the first time in his life. Then he becomes acquainted with the bureaucratic burden of today's Britain. This puts a magnifying glass on the bad aspects of our spirit of time, because in our country it is the same. Look at the supplemental affair. We ended up in a completely wrong groove here. Last year I also spoke about this and I tabled a motion together with Mr Segers to launch a parliamentary inquiry into what goes wrong in government execution and, above all, about the role that we ourselves play as a Chamber. I hope that the results of the research currently under way will be there before the elections, so that we can learn lessons from each other there for another formation. If you are talking about the wrong groove, I think that the Article 68 discussion has become part of that too. It is an inexplicable looming error that information in pieces that Members of Parliament do not get, then comes up through a WOB procedure. Only by restoring this can you as a Chamber and government make a fresh start on these kinds of files. That is why I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to correct this looming error. When it comes to government, the most important thing is that society gets less in the way. Because the way to community is through that society. If the government can provide help and support, that's nice. But sometimes it is enough not to be an obstacle force and to offer a little more social experimentation space. That's different from a pilot from above. We must give space to society to make the cooperative revolution rage through our country. Mr. Chairman. And especially for Mr Azarkan: the housing of the people. Last year, during the General Political Reviews, I spoke about reintroducing the concept of housing. The belief in the market to achieve enough affordable housing for the middle class is at the end; nothing, invisible hand! We can now speak of a national housing crisis. There are simply too few affordable houses being built. In recent years, the necessary steps have been taken to improve the situation. There's more money. There's less landlord tax. There is more room for housing corporations and there is more direction from the government. The cabinet has taken good extra steps along the way. But to really solve the housing crisis, more needs to be done in the coming years. There will have to be real housing policy again, and I see three main points in which I think we need to shape it. The first is that the landlord levy will have to be phased out, combined with hard agreements with housing corporations about what they are going to deliver in return. The second is that once again we need a real note on spatial planning or public housing to identify both qualitative and quantitative housing needs on the basis of extensive housing needs research. Finally, especially for Mr Klaver, there must be a Ministry of Housing, which has both the budget and the legal instruments to ensure that we simply build hundreds of thousands of homes every year. I believe that key projects should also be identified: locations for a new neighbourhood to be built or a new city. This is not just about the number of houses, but also about what kind of construction is being carried out. When I think of needs that are now there, they are very much in the combination of living and caring. The SP has been pleading for care neighborhoods for a number of years, but I can already see local examples coming where things are going well, where courtyards are being built like a knarrenhof or a polderhof. This responds to a huge need there is. A gap has arisen as a result of the disappearance of traditional nursing homes. Especially in shrinking regions where care and care are already scarcer, this problem is very rapid and becomes unsustainable if we do nothing. Older people unite and have to resort too quickly to a place in nursing homes, whereas this should not really be necessary and they often don't want it at all. That is why I would like to go back here to a state vision and point out that more courtyards need to be built, such as a courtyard, such as a community center. You can then make more binding agreements with municipalities in a note on spatial planning or in a note on housing. I would like a reflection from the cabinet on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u614	Then I have Mr Azarkan, Mr Klaver, Mrs Marijnissen and Mr Asscher. Mr Azarkan, Mr Klaver and Mr Asscher were given the opportunity to put a short question. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u615	I read about the week or no, I actually heard it, no, I read it, but he said it in a TV show: every Dutchman has the right to an affordable home. That's what Mr. Heerma said. I thought, "That man is a genius." I thought that man should do something in politics. Maybe he should join a big party. Maybe he should be chairman of the political group, even if it's temporary. Maybe he should join a coalition and see how you handle it. I thought it was remarkable. While we have been talking for years about a major housing shortage, he calls it a housing crisis himself, Mr Heerma comes and says: everyone has the right to an affordable home. He's coming up with an idea. I have to say, I like the idea. And that is what we have all said here in one of the debates on housing. But I think he needs to go a little further in that effect. I also realize that in 1992, the former Heerma was called when "Operation Heerma" thought: there is no more role for the central government. On what basis does this Heerma say: I think there is indeed a role for the government in a compelling direction on numbers, but also on realization?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u616	In itself, like Mr Azarkan, I am quite happy to be able to do the whole analysis of the brutal operation of housing in my father's 1990s. I also saw an analysis of father Marijnissen and father Heerma coming back this morning in Trouw, so we might have that again next year in the General Political Reviews. But that brutal operation was an administrative delight at the time. I think it still is. It was, on the one hand, stopping pumping around a lot of money. Unfortunately, I can't discuss it with my father anymore, because he died a few years later. But I can talk to several people who were involved at the time. Recently with the new Aedes chairman, Martin van Rijn, who was a top official with my father at the time. After that brutal operation, two things happened anyway, which I don't think were foreseen, at least that's what I'm assuming. Local aldermen had a lot of influence back then. You had very strong aldermen Spatial Planning back then. Their influence then decreased because the money no longer went through the municipalities. This also lost a lot of knowledge and experience at municipal level. Then the second thing, and that might be even more important. That brutal operation meant that housing corporations would become more independent again. Only that happened at a time when everything was liberalisation, so that "self-employed" meant "to the market." Market principles! I don't think that was the purpose of the brutal operation, but it was the result. I had become group chairman just before the summer and I used the summer to deepen myself and talk to people to find out what really is a big problem in the Netherlands. Housing then emerged as one of the major problems. I thought, "You know what, I'll throw it in." From the moment I am chairman of the group, I am working on how we can undo the missteps that have been made, partly because of too much faith in the market and partly because of decisions that have had other effects than were foreseen, and can return to solving the problem. That has to do with the elements I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u617	I'm happy with the story I'm hearing about the housing. I think that's really the direction we need to go. I do not yet see enough of that in the budget as it stands. I hope that we can work together and that it does not lead to a confrontation with such a budget. So I'm actually looking for the space Mr Heerma sees. I've been talking about these rent increases, for example. I think those rents should go down, and if they can't, they should be frozen. What room does Mr Heerma see for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u618	I usually have a mild personality, but if you challenge me to do so, I'd like to engage in some confrontation. That is only difficult with Mr Klaver's question. Mr Klaver is asking a question which I think he has just asked Mr Dijkhoff about a law which I believe was tabled in May or June and which is still under consultation at the moment. It looks at the limitation of rent increases. These rent increases are now particularly high due to inflation. Mr Klaver says: can we look at the legal treatment to see if we can tighten that up a little more, so that you can further reduce that increase in the free market? Mr Dijkhoff also replied. I'm willing to take a serious look at that. I am not going to support any of the proposals made by GroenLinks, but my group is very willing to see whether that law goes far enough or whether more can be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u619	That law is coming to the Chamber. I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen. Otherwise, I must also give Mr Azarkan the opportunity. You can't interfere, Mr. Heerma. I'm going to see Mrs. Marijnissen anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u620	May I make a point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u621	No. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u622	Last year I congratulated Mr Heerma on his words about housing. Living is not a market but a right. I'll do that again this year. At the same time, I understand the questions that are being asked, because it is too important to think once a year and not the other 364 days of the year. If we then take a very brief balance, we see: renting exploded, a quarter of the tenants cannot make ends meet, the number of homeless has doubled, an affordable house is actually no longer to be found. Then my point is specific: it is not good to move everything forward to the next elections. We're in the middle of a crisis and the tenants are in trouble. The question is quite right: what is Mr Heerma going to do for those tenants who are now in the midst of the corona crisis, despite the SP's adopted proposal, facing this huge increase in rent?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u623	Let me begin by saying two things about Mrs Marijnissen's introduction. I appreciate the compliment, but I cast the reproach that I also saw coming in a tweet of a group colleague of hers, far from me. Actually, I find it a little embarrassing. We, as a group, are former colleague Ronnes, but also our new spokesman on this subject, all year round every debate, whether it is a question of asking the Ministry of Housing with the PvdA or going to war against the landlord's tax. I've been trying to get it further down at every negotiation I've been in. Then I do not think it is right to say that you do that for one day and 364 days. I do not think that is right, and I also think that this is a way of politics that the SP should not be doing. The SP says more needs to be done. There's been more. A step has been taken in the budget to do something about the rents just for the people with the smallest scholarship, who are in a very expensive home. There has been a rather tough battle in the First Chamber, also by Mrs Marijnissen's party, but something has been done about it. In addition, Mr Klaver has just said: you could say that they are people in very expensive homes, very rich people. Unfortunately, this is not the case in the big cities. In the big cities: if you don't fit within that social rental limit, you get rents around your ears that you think: is this middle rent? How's a teacher supposed to pay for that? How's a cop supposed to pay for that? I have just given the opportunity to imagine that the law will look into whether it can be strengthened further. I want to look at that with an open mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u624	I understand Mr Heerma thinks it's sharp, but that's the way it is for a lot of people in the country who think every month: how am I going to pay the rent? That's what they thought before the crisis, and they're now confronted by a stubborn minister, I'm just saying once again with a rent exploded: the highest rent increase in six years. Of course we appreciate the CDA's commitment. I didn't start off with a compliment on that for nothing. That's what I'm saying. But it's not enough in this case, because people are in trouble. That is why I appeal to Mr Heerma for his responsibility, as a large party and as part of the cabinet. I assume he understands that. These people are in trouble now. The rule before us is only gonna help a small part of the people. Only 8% of the tenants will benefit from this, while we know that a quarter of the tenants could not actually pay the rent for the crisis. That is why I find the question really legitimate, because the elections take too long for most people. What can we do now, in the middle of the corona crisis, for all those tenants who are now getting into trouble and getting the huge rent increase?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u625	I just turned that in. There's been a tough fight over the rents, including in the Upper House. It was listened to by the Minister. I actually think that Mrs Marijnissen is not fair and too harsh about that. A step has been taken, just for the low-income people who are in an expensive rental house. In addition, the question is whether it is sufficient what the bill, which is now in consultation, is trying to do about these rent increases in the free market. So it's not like nothing's gonna happen. I have already indicated, as Mr Dijkhoff did just now, that I am prepared to see if that law can be strengthened further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u626	Mr Asscher, a brief question as well. It is the same category as Mr Klaver and Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u627	It is also a debate, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u628	I wanted to make another point, as a point of order. We are having a very strange debate here when outside the contaminations this huge. Two provinces, North and South Holland, have become code red according to Belgium. That's where we are now. Through the media we hear that the cabinet wants to hold another press conference on Friday. I find that, frankly, quite bizarre. My request would be, through the President, simply to send a letter for tomorrow's cabinet reply so that we as a Chamber can find something of that. The whole crisis dominates, rightly, the debate, but I find it very strange that we are being informed through the media that something is happening again on Friday. It's going on now, it's not under control. We'd like a letter for tomorrow's response. Mr. Chairman. My question to Mr Heerma. I think Mr Heerma gave a cheerful eulogy at the funeral of neoliberalism. Usually such a meeting is very sad, but not when Heerma speaks. Only they keep getting up from the grave, at least, Dijkhoff just said he doesn't see any connection between the landlord levy and the problems in the housing market; that hasn't been demonstrated at all. I think we should go through with that now. There's the problem with the rents. I don't think Clover and Marijnissen told any nonsense about that. They have spoken on behalf of a lot of people who suffer from it. There is the problem of housing shortage, and we also have rising unemployment. Now is the time, in the context of the crisis, to say to each other: take a big bite off that landlord's tax, convert it into homes and turn it into jobs. My question to you is: could we together instruct the cabinet to come forward with additional proposals for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u629	Mr Asscher often asks the most difficult questions. As CDA, we have never been in favour of the landlord tax. That was part of a compromise that arose in 2013. I'm not going to make any lame comments about nine seats, but we weren't in the coalition then, and we didn't participate. It was also at a time when there was a parliamentary survey that concluded that housing corporations, with Maserati's and boats on the doorstep, had to be severely curtailed. Sometimes it takes 25 years for you to reflect on a decision, but I do not think that both decisions have been the best decisions that politics has made in the last ten years. There's going to be a turnaround. We entered the elections in 2017 with an election program that, I remember, wanted 500 million off the landlord tax. So the phasing out of the landlord's tax was part of our program. I have to admit that we were sitting at the table in the formation, where parties wanted to double the levy or were still in the middle of the discussion whether it was right that the housing corporations should no longer be allowed to produce limited results. I believe there was a 100 million exit. I can speak for my predecessor, Sybrand Buma, as well as for myself, that we have put the landlord's tax back on the table at every negotiation. I believe that three budgets have already been allocated in a row, it has happened once in the spring paper and it has happened again in the climate debate. We now have a structural reduction in the landlord's tax, which I believe is greater than the 500 million we had in our election programme. The interesting thing is that an occasional discount seems to be the most effective at the moment. Because the billion we negotiated last year is not just a big overdraft. I saw a letter from Minister Ollongren that says that only a part of that money will already be realized 51,000 homes. Most of them are social rents or are part of the cheaper segment. We can always discuss whether the glass is half full or half empty, and whether it is good or good enough. I wanted to use a movement based not only on the philosophy that housing is a national responsibility, but also on the idea that we should give space to housing corporations. I see that in the plans of this summer's cabinet, which are thus contained in this Millions Note, extra room is given to housing corporations to carry out tasks that we said a few years ago were no longer allowed to carry out. That is what we are now saying: it must be done. In fact, if you want that money, you have to live up to that responsibility. I think that's a sensible move.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u630	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u631	I gave an analysis, as Mrs Ouwehand calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u632	But isn't that the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u633	It is the result of a four-party negotiation. If I had 76 seats on my own, there would undoubtedly have been more to the landlord's tax. I don't feel the room right now to say I'm gonna do a lot more about that. If the route we have taken is successful, I think we should build on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u634	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u635	Just one short sentence. Mr Asscher also knows about me, and last year's debate on teacher salaries showed that when opposition parties come up with realistic, feasible proposals, I always look seriously at them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u636	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u637	I'm joining our manufacturing industry. If the corona crisis has taught us anything, it is that we have become far too dependent on countries like China and India for many crucial products. The global economy is now operating according to the "just in time" model. That makes her far too unstable and far too insecure. Companies like VDL and DSM have recently shown good examples of how to recover crucial production to the Netherlands. In addition, it is the motto: the sure thing for the uncertain taking and thus not "just in time" anymore, but "just in case." That is very sensible, and it is also good for our economy and employment. It is a trend which, as far as I am concerned, should continue to stimulate post-corona: an active industrial policy that will ensure that we have a more vibrant manufacturing industry in 2040 than we do now. I believe that the growth fund can also provide a huge boost for our economy and jobs in the future. In the budget, economic affairs in particular have several pots of money that make regional development or European co-financing more possible. I saw that the IPO recently presented a report on this. It's called the Regional Economy Recovery Plan. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister how the extra money entered in this year's budget for European co-financing and for ROMs can be used to strengthen regional economic recovery, in all regions of the Netherlands. The wake-up call we have had through corona when it comes to China's dependence and India's dependence may still be the most important one for vital medicines and pharmacy. Even before corona, we have already experienced how difficult it is to supply medicines from India and China. In 2017, due to problems in many factories there were emergency messages that within a few months we would no longer receive all kinds of medicines. As far as I am concerned, there is one way forward. That's that we need to get to a national pharmaceutical company. If you want to do this right, it can only be done in cooperation with a number of countries around us. I am curious to see how the cabinet is looking at this and whether it intends to work together with a number of countries around us to ensure that European countries will jointly resume the vital production of medicines. In this debate, several speakers have already talked about the vulnerabilities we are facing by corona. I believe Mr Klaver said that we actually knew a long time ago about a pandemic. I believe he said we've become too shortsighted. I'll share that analysis a little bit. I believe that we need to take better account of our strategic vulnerabilities and vulnerable sectors. Whether it concerns our energy production or our food supply, the aim must always be that domestic and foreign security are no longer two different concepts. They've become intertwined. If you ask us whether we have not been too shortsighted, it is interesting that you usually find out that the Scientific Council for Government Policy had already warned us about it. It was right here. I used the WRR for the People's Bank last year, but it's also playing here. The strange thing is that that report was already there before the previous formation or in the previous formation. They wrote a report on security in an increasingly diffuse network world at the end of 2016, early 2017. We have far too little regard for things like terrorist threats when something happens in the Middle East, the supply of drugs in the port of Rotterdam if a civil war stops in South America, but also for things like a cyberattack that will completely shut us down. A pandemic, I don't think, was in the report yet, but still, you can stick corona and the extent to which we've been robbed so much about this report. I do not really know why this advice from the WRR in the formation has not been taken more seriously. I have also discussed this with Mr Segers of the Christian Union. We would both ask the Cabinet to follow one of the most important opinions in this report: the establishment of a safety planning office. A note was issued in 2018 that the cabinet did not intend to do so. The WRR says that because we have become too shortsighted, we need a planning agency, not only to calculate what our job growth will be in 2040 or 2045, but to look at what really are the disruptive things that we know are coming and we are not sufficiently prepared for, so that, for example, we are talking about that dependence on China and India, which we are now facing, at the front and at the back. On behalf of the Christian Union, I would therefore like to ask the Cabinet whether it would like to proceed with the advice of the WRR to set up a security planning agency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u638	Mrs. Ouwehand, a question. No analysis, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u639	I have a quick question. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u640	Well, well, well. You can do it. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u641	I can do it for sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u642	We started in 1995 at the VU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u643	I ask Mr Heerma whether the CDA does not agree that you should indeed prepare yourself for such unexpected situations, but that, if you have been warned that such a situation may occur, it might also be wise to try to prevent such a pandemic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u644	Mr Heerma can also give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u645	If something is very dangerous and you know it's coming, it's always wise to try and prevent it. But there are also risks. That is why I indicated that internal and external security is becoming increasingly intertwined. The central analysis of this WRR report a few years ago was that sometimes you have to prepare yourself for risk situations that are not entirely in control. A cyber attack where our entire Internet goes down may have far more far-reaching consequences than what we saw at the beginning of this year, hoarding in supermarkets because we were afraid toilet rolls would run out. However, I wonder whether we are really sufficiently aware of it and whether we are sufficiently prepared for it. That is why I believe that such a planning agency can be of great added value.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u646	Sure, once. No problem getting ready for disruptive situations we don't see coming. But we do see some things coming. Of this, the CDA should also say that prevention is better than cure. The climate crisis is disruptive. Our intensive livestock farming and deforestation worldwide, in which we as the Netherlands trading country have a very important role, are potentially disruptive when a pandemic breaks out and it is not as if we have not been warned about it by, even in the Netherlands, the leading virologists. I would like the group of the CDA to join the new leader of the CDA who said at the motion of the Party for Animals: it is actually a good idea to see where the risks of these pandemics are, that zoonoses; perhaps we should do something to reduce those risks. I do not understand why the CDA voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u647	Mrs. Ouwehand is trying to create a contradiction by turning what I say around. She doesn't do justice to what I say. I'm just saying you need one of those planning agencies to know not only abstractly what a threat is. Perhaps it plays and such a planning agency comes up with advice on pandemics, precisely around deforestation, just around climate. The control of a planning agency that reminds us of the responsibility to act will be increased. That's not because a planning agency is going to write about things we don't know. It is precisely about putting more pressure on things that we actually know, but often in the heat of the debate and in the short term are snowed under. I mentioned cyber and I mentioned the pandemic. So a planning agency would be an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u648	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u649	I have just mentioned the energy supply of vulnerable people. I share the analysis that Mr Dijkhoff has just made that we do not want to be dependent on all kinds of other countries for our energy supply. Mr Klaver mentioned Russia. That seems like an important country not to be dependent on. At the same time, we know that without coal and gas, we're not gonna make it with just wind and sun. You're certainly not gonna make it through this if you count the scarce space I've been talking about. So you have to look at a mix of all energy forms. Nuclear energy has a relative footprint when it comes to literal space. I think it is therefore good to take a serious look at the possibility of getting a business case around. Perhaps the government should play a financial role in this, as in other places where subsidies have played. I know that several regions in the Netherlands are actually interested. They only point out that this will not work if the government does not board. One of those who approached me was not in the legally established three, but I think it is seriously wise that we look at that. I am therefore going to table Mr Dijkhoff's motion tomorrow. Mr President, I should like to conclude. I should like to conclude with an issue on which Mr Asscher has already asked a lot of questions. It's about inequality in our labour market. Yesterday, the CPB presented a report on the Millions Note and the budget, which, due to the crisis packages of the cabinet, the economic impact and the unemployment rate are less than the CPB had previously estimated. That was good news. But there was also ugly news in this message, because they also indicated that at the same time the inequality is increased by the emergency packages. This is because the emergency packages are mainly aimed at people with permanent jobs. Most of the resources are devoted to this. It's complicated. You can see that we already knew before that that the hard hits are taken by the flex workers and the false-zzp'ers. It is not for nothing that a city such as Amsterdam has doubled its use of the food bank in recent months. This concerns in particular the group of flex workers, zero-hour contractors and zzp'ers without any form of buffer or protection. This underlines all the more that our labour market really needs to be made fairer and that the opinion of the Borstlap Committee must be implemented. It is also crucial that the extra money which, I believe, is rightly earmarked in the third emergency package for retraining and for moving from work to work, actually ensures the preservation of work. I believe that it is crucial that the social partners have a role to play in the implementation of this. I would like an explanation from the Prime Minister as to how the talks are going to take place and how this is going to take shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u650	You can finish your story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u651	Yeah, good. I just said something about the food banks. Given rising unemployment, the number of people reporting to the food banks will unfortunately increase in the coming months. Morezzp'ers and flex workers also need to contact the food bank. Is it true that the four million grant promised by the cabinet is not actually a grant, but a guarantee? Is it true that it expires on January 1, because it was in the first emergency package? That's really weird, if you expect things to get worse in the next few months. I'd like to hear from the Cabinet that this isn't going to happen. In addition, I still find it strange that the Netherlands does not use the European fund FEAT, when it comes to combating hunger. I know that there are all kinds of parties here who say it is a disgrace that food banks exist at all. I say: it is a shame that people do not have enough to eat; let us be glad that there are food banks to support them. A fair labour market is the future solution for many people. Just like affordable living, because poverty is not for nothing the most common in the largest cities. However, there is European money available. Almost all European countries make use of this, but the Netherlands do not. I believe that this should change in the coming period. I would like the cabinet to promise that it will also use this money available to support food banks in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u652	Thank you. I see Mr. Klaver. In short, and then Mr Asscher and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u653	From the analysis that too little is actually happening for outsiders in the labour market and young people, we have proposed a crisis income. In doing so, we want to see an end to the current regime in which Zpp's with a partner very quickly no longer have any income. But that also applies to flex workers for whom there is no room anymore. Now Mr Heerma says that we need to look at Borstlap and the long term, but I would actually like to see what we can do in the short term in order to allow more groups to use the facilities we are now creating. Is Mr Heerma prepared to look into this when we talk about the support package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u654	I am not very enthusiastic about this crisis income, because that is a form of basic income and I am not very enthusiastic about it myself. I find Mr Klaver difficult to look at, and if I understand it completely wrong, he has to explain it. My questions focus precisely on that long-term perspective of Borstlap. I hope that everyone in the Chamber will see that we need to take that step. In any event, Mr Dijkhoff went further in his term than I have heard him go so far. But for the short term, we will have to do more to ensure that people are not sidelined. I think that reducing the NOW arrangements and moving on to a new model where you go from work to work is a more sensible step, but then it has to be done really well. We should not do it as Mr Asscher said earlier: first a benefit and then we will see what we might be doing for someone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u655	Finally, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u656	I agree, but you're talking about the group that actually already had a fixed contract. I am now concerned about the people who have actually lost or are about to lose their jobs and those short-term WW benefits. Furthermore, I am concerned about thezzp'ers in the cultural sector who have a partner in education or care. They soon have one income less because of the partner test, and those two incomes were actually needed to provide for the household. My question is actually very specific: is Mr Heerma prepared to look with us when dealing with the support package of Minister Koolmees to see to it that, in the short term, this newly established social security is also made accessible or more accessible to flex workers andzzp'ers who have a partner who may deserve something but not a dentist's income?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u657	Mr. Heerma. A brief response, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u658	As a former spokesperson on social affairs, I am somewhat on the slippery side, because these are debates that I have not done myself anymore. But I believe that my successors to this dossier have already asked in various debates what you could do with extending the shortened WW and what you could do with a part-time WW. To date, the Minister for Social Affairs has always replied with... I look anxiously in his direction to see if he nods; he seems to nod lightly. So I'm looking for ways to do this, but it's not technically possible right now. I think that in next week's debate on what you can do with this kind of thing, we will ask those questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u659	We can still discuss the budget for a while, but this third aid package must be completed within two weeks. I have just outlined in a question to Dijkhoff that I am afraid that, despite all good intentions, the wrong signal could go out of the way. I believe that we want to achieve the same thing, but we still need an obligation or a guarantee or a direct claim for the people who are doing the work now. They need to know that there is a guarantee that, if their jobs cease to exist, they will end up in a route where they will be guided from one job to another, from one job to another, from one job to another, and that they will not be covered instead. That is essential to me, also because of the lessons of the previous crisis. At that time we were often here together, but now I want to prevent people from getting into that situation. So the question is: are you prepared to introduce such a work guarantee with us now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u660	I have already told Mr Asscher that I am happy that the Labour Party is not asking for a job guarantee but for a job guarantee. At the same time, I think it is a difficult term, because we know that next year's economic figures are bad and unemployment is going to rise. We should not then evoke the idea that everyone individually has a guarantee at work and no one is going to be unemployed. I find that complicated, but at the same time I heard you say very clearly in the question you also asked Mr Dijkhoff that you think that something should not happen only when people are receiving benefits from the municipality or the UWV. I might now go back to my comment on the role of the polder. As far as I am concerned, employers and employees should be given a role in shaping these 1.4 billion and those of job-by-work paths, so that it is not going to be: from work to benefit to perhaps once work. If that is the direction that Mr Asscher is thinking of, and if he comes forward with proposals to improve the implementation, probably with municipalities too, I would like to take this seriously, because I think we agree on the objective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u661	I would like to touch on the fine words about more community spirit and more space for society. In the tax system, we still see that this is actually very little family-oriented and very individualistic, and that as a result, the gap between single-earners and two-earners with the same family income has increased enormously over the years. Now we saw that in the past period the Central Planning Office has also put its finger on this, even after the motion of the Chamber. The Christian Union has drawn attention to this, as has the CDA. It played wider in the Chamber. They have also supported us in this. However, I see once again an increase in the gap, sometimes even seven times as much tax. Why is that, and what really needs to be done to get a fundamental change in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u662	This is a very complex and difficult discussion which Mr van der Staaij is right to address. In my view, this is a problem which is becoming increasingly acute. I think that for years, in the tax system but also in the CPB figures, too much has been looked at how we can achieve the highest possible level of employment. But that works through an offer model. Things like reducing benefits or giving less support to families work well for the economy and for the labour market, while actually putting people in trouble. After all, the other group of people, in addition tozzp'ers and flex workers, who are most likely to knock on food banks, are people with children. Child poverty is much greater than, for example, that of the elderly. So we have also tried in the coalition agreement. I can now look at Mrs Schouten, who has worked very hard for this, even during the negotiations for the coalition agreement, in order to break this trend somewhat. But we are also dealing with parties that look very differently at that. I see that these are sometimes steps rather than the great steps that Mr Van der Staaij wants. However, I agree with him that we should look more closely at the principle of carrying capacity in the tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u663	Finally, what can we really expect from the CDA in this respect?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u664	I know that our running rate is here in the Chamber which, in recent years, has been very hard on this issue of inequality and marginal pressure, and which is very often called into question by the principle of fairness, is also on our programme committee. So I think you should look with hope and expectation at our election programme, something you should do anyway. We have been allies in this struggle for many years. I think that we will continue to do so, because in terms of the inequality in the way taxes are levied, the principle of justice simply plays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u665	Thank you, Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u666	I'm gonna go finish up. I have ten minutes left, Mr President, so I'm going to have a very long...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u667	I thought you were done, but you're right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u668	I've been smuggling a little bit at the interruptions, I think. Mr. Chairman. The King said yesterday in the throne speech that the corona crisis is seriously testing us in everything of value. But he also called for responsibility, solidarity and solidarity to be maintained in the future, so that we can do something good with each other in this crisis. Solidarity and cooperation have always been present in society. If we manage to make that flourish by putting the market and the government back at the service of that society, we will leave a more beautiful country for our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u669	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I will give Mrs Marijnissen the floor in a moment, but first the chair needs to be cleaned a little bit. Mrs Marijnissen of the SP has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A year ago we also stood here with the General Reviews. Then we had a full gallery. He's an army now. We were then in a country where no one had ever heard of COVID-19. How different it is now. In the meantime, the political debate has not been about anything else for months, and at home it is not about anything else. Of course, that's not so weird either, because the virus dominates everything. Thousands of people have become ill or have lost a loved one to the virus. Others lost their jobs because one day sectors were shut down. Schools closed; we suddenly had to study at home. Zzp'ers saw assignments and projects go up in smoke. Festivals have been canceled massively. And shops were going through a lot. A lot of people long for the moment that permanent pressure from the virus falls off us again, that as a student you can go back to the college banks instead of staring at your screen all day and that you can visit your parents casually, without having to doubt about a hug and without having to keep your distance. At the same time, the virus has brought out the best in people. We have seen heartwarming initiatives over the last few months. Think of musicians who played for care institutions to cheer up the elderly and care institutions who in turn pulled everything out of the closet to ensure that there could still be as much contact with family members as possible. We saw solidarity, between young and old and between sick and healthy. The coronavirus has highlighted for many how we as humans are part of a community. Mr. Chairman. Last year, all this didn't happen. Last week, my colleague Ronald van Raak noted that many journalists said at the end of the General Political Reviews that they actually thought it was a bit boring. Last year we had the idea that we saw very interesting shifts. The tilting we now see in society and politics is not new. The change is accelerated by the corona crisis, but has been in the air for a long time. We could see that last year. I heard Mr Segers distance himself from raw capitalism. Mr Dijkhoff spoke finely about the reciprocity of companies such as Philips. And Mr. Heerma............................................................................................................................................ All in one debate. Call that boring. It's kind of special to hear politicians say goodbye to policies they've come up with. Of course, the gentlemen were right: we should no longer see each other as competitors; we should work together better. That should be the most important lesson from the crisis of recent months. Recently, a proposal was adopted by us to increase the production of medicines and protective equipment in our own hands and in our own countries, so that production can no longer be left to the market and not to spend it on low-wage countries, but to do it again. Even the VVD was for that. I am also very keen on how the SP proposed in the previous crisis, the financial crisis, not to increase that crisis by cutting back sharply. But those cuts did happen then. This seems to be cured in this crisis. Now the Minister of Finance says that he has deep pockets and that he is prepared to empty them all. The government wants to mitigate the effects of the crisis rather than increase it. That's a new approach. As far as we are concerned, that is a good approach. Since the start of this crisis, the SP has been able to count on its support. Mr. Chairman. All this gives me hope. Hope that it can also be different and better and that it is not a natural law to lay down the bill of a crisis for people who cannot bear it. The SP sees that our country can emerge stronger from the corona crisis, that our country will become fairer, that we will reward people who do the hardest work more fairly and that we can invest in what is all of us rather than throwing people back on themselves. Mr. Chairman. Hundreds of thousands of caregivers have probably had the most stressful time of their working lives in recent months. I think it's okay to think about that a little bit longer. With the delusion of the day, some seem to have quickly forgotten what happened. We all remember the videos that were sent in, the front messages that were on TV every night. In it we could see caregivers and others. I also remember the many phone calls I had with carers who were very worried on Friday whether they would still have enough stuff on Monday. I remember the many phone calls with the people who worked on the ICU and worried that we wouldn't end up in a code black. I remember talking to my own friends who had to jump in to the hospitals in Brabant. I remember the story of my own neighbor. She works at the nursing home, had no protective equipment, got corona and got sick herself, ended up in the hospital and eventually, when she was fit enough to get back to work, heard: your contract will not be renewed; by 30 September you will be on the street. We must not forget that many health professionals have gone down the edge of the abyss, and some have even gone over it. Because it is not normal for carers to have to do their job with insufficient protection. Nor should it become common practice for us to ask our caregivers who are superhuman, to expect them to risk their own health, to be afraid of getting sick themselves or to take the virus home with them. That's not normal, and it shouldn't be. I ask the government if there might be a little more understanding of those emotions of people who work in care. Can the cabinet also honestly make it clear that everything is now being done to prevent such new tragedies? 'Cause we're worried sick. You just saw the news that Belgium has issued code red for North Holland and South Holland. If you hear that Minister De Jonge has been outside the press and that new measures may be announced on Friday, we are very concerned. I will therefore perhaps dwell a little longer on this subject, because it is simply extremely important that we do everything we can to prevent that second wave. For the health of Dutch people, but also for the economy, it would be dramatic if that second wave were to come. According to the figures, it looks as if we could still scramble, but if there is to be a new lockdown, the consequences cannot be seen. At the same time, the number of infections is increasing considerably. We already know that a significant proportion of people cannot be tested because too little capacity is used in the laboratories. And then half of them are still at the door. Thousands of people will want to be tested even more than they are now. So that doesn't happen too often. This is dangerous, because it could cause us to lose control of the virus. The cabinet said it could take weeks before anyone with complaints can test themselves again, but that is simply unacceptable to us, especially if several laboratories are reporting because they still have capacity, but that is not requested. Precisely the bold source and contact research, precisely the decisive test policy, is the foundation of the approach to the coronavirus. The Minister has informed us that we now have a stock of protective equipment to handle ten weeks of top pressure, but by now we know that nursing homes are going to work preventively with protective equipment much earlier. How does that change the supplies? It seems that many politicians, especially those in this government, are not aware of the health situation and the impact of the corona virus on a sector that was already struggling before. It is not an automatism that carers, with a possible second wave of infections, once again have their hands in order to help in the corona department. The love of work is deep, but fatigue is deeper these months. Angrily, people are concerned about the flight behaviour of politicians in this room. There seems to be only half the realization of how much pain this cowardly act has caused in healthcare: running away when your caregivers have to meet. It feels so intensely unfair! They stood up when politics needed them. Even though there wasn't enough protection, they went. They were there. But the other way around, politics is abandoning our caregivers. They deserve more than a round of applause, more than just a bonus. As far as we are concerned, even a structurally higher salary is only the beginning, because health care providers also want care to be really about people again, about patients instead of product codes, about nurses instead of check lists, about professional rather than control greed. That's what we need to talk about. How do we free the care of insurers and bureaucrats, who eat precious care money while they are mainly a sta-in-the-way for caregivers? We need to free our caregivers from the paperwork and desk work that keeps them away from care, because it is too crazy for words that people in care 40% of their time are engaged in nonsense bureaucracy? It is also crazy that youth care organisations should be constantly concerned about getting the next call for tenders. Have the carers not proved in recent months that they deserve to gain the confidence of politics? Why has a policy been decided that has caused so much damage? Can the Prime Minister explain that? In home care, the introduction of market forces has caused a bald blow. Those who work in household care can often barely make a living on the salary that they often earn. In community care, different healthcare providers have to fight for the same client. In the youth care sector, new providers are shooting out of the ground like mushrooms. The healthcare market not only makes care worse, but also less effective and therefore more expensive. Does the Prime Minister also see that this is the time to say goodbye to market thinking and that working together should be the norm in healthcare? And then what is he going to do to get that market operation and competition out of care? Mr. Chairman. The nursing home should be a pleasant and safe place and over the past few months we have been able to see how extremely important that is. Many elderly people choose to live at home for as long as possible, and for those who want and can, we must do everything we can to make that possible. But then there will be a lot to change, because for years old people and their families have had to fight to get enough home care. Well, there's gotta be a different way. That's gotta be better. Also for the large group of elderly people who want to return to the nursing home, we have to get to work. The Tweede Kamer and also Minister De Jonge already embraced the SP's plan for the construction of healthcare neighbourhoods. I was able to hear Mr Heerma as well, and we naturally welcome that. The neighborhood: small-scale locations in the neighbourhood where older people can live who want care and company close by. Everyone seems to want it, but the cabinet doesn't seem to be in much hurry to actually build it. How is that possible? Why doesn't it get off the ground, is my question. Why turn commercial parties castles into luxury care palaces, but can't our own neighbors grow old in their own neighborhood in a place where you can eat, talk, live and get care? Because that's what many elderly people want most. And what would be better than letting the elderly grow old in their own neighborhood? Mr. Chairman. With a shortage of 100,000 homes, more building is urgently needed. We talked about that a lot today. After ten years of VVD policy under Prime Minister Rutte, the number of homeless people has doubled and half of all tenants are struggling to make ends meet. Well, I'd say you're a little out of line. Because a house is more than a roof over its head. It's often the ground underneath your existence. In recent years the housing shortage in the Netherlands has only increased and the division in living as well. Between people in a house of sale, who profited from the ever lower mortgage interest rates, and people in a house of rent, who were faced with increasing rents every year. Between starters, of whom some parents could lay down a ton and others couldn't. Between the elderly who can buy the good care in a care complex and those who can't. It is precisely now that young people are the first to lose their jobs and have to pay sky-high rent in a free-sector home. What does the Prime Minister say to these young people? What's fair about this? Or take Rietje van 67 from Utrecht. She's always worked in a nursing home, she's retired for a year now, and she finds that her pension has fallen and her rent has risen. And she's gonna get in trouble. What does the Prime Minister say to her? What's fair about this? Mr. Chairman. In the First Chamber a motion of the SP was adopted to freeze the rents. So no rent increase for next year. There was even a vote of censure, because that was not the case with a historic motion of censure. That did not happen in the First Chamber in a century and a half, but Minister Ollongren managed to do it. What does the Prime Minister think of the Minister refusing to carry out these motions? And what is the D of Democrats 66 worth, so I ask, if you deal with the statements of the People's Assembly that way? We're dealing with the biggest rent increase in years. We can't let that happen. The SP therefore calls on the cabinet once again: reverse the rent increase and let's work on real housing. Indeed, I had a whole debate on this last year with Mr Heerma. Recent research carried out by I&D also shows that 70% of the D66 voters believe that the government is doing too little to address the housing crisis and that the majority of the CDA and Christian Union voters are also in favour of freezing all rents. Then let's not wait today, but let's start that change today: good affordable homes for everyone, with a fair rent. Therefore abolish the landlord's tax, massively build good affordable homes and improve existing homes and make them more sustainable. I'd like to hear if the Cabinet is prepared to begin this. Mr. Chairman. We cannot accept a minister and this cabinet ignoring the voice of the people. Our country deserves an honest cabinet that listens to people and carries out the wishes of the people. An honest government should be an ally of people and not an enemy. This calls for a completely different attitude, not an attitude like we saw in the Tax Administration. Over and over again, cases come out of this cesspool that even scare the new Secretary of State. Half a million people appeared to be on a list where click notifications from neighbors and convictions weighed equally heavily in assessing whether anyone could be in good faith. Research shows that there are many more of these types of lists. Once on that list, the consequences for the assessment of people can be very large. People have been directly driven into poverty by the actions of the government. Every time, those people couldn't defend themselves. So much injustice, so much dishonesty, organized by the government itself; it is actually unimaginable. A strict report by the Dutch Data Protection Authority has made it clear that the Tax Administration discriminates, systematically and for a long time. People's background was more important than their actual behavior. Unauthorized distinction; violation of Article 1 of our Constitution. Does the Prime Minister recognise that with full automatic discrimination by the Tax Administration, humanity has disappeared from the system? What is the government going to do to restore confidence? How is it that the parents are still waiting for compensation? Could the Prime Minister perhaps say that against the way in which, for example, mink breeders have been compensated by millions in recent weeks? Isn't that contrast very big? 180 million for a couple of mink breeders go! That is how it is arranged, and in the meantime thousands of parents have been forced into poverty by government acts for years. Mr. Chairman. The SP wants a whole new approach for the Tax Administration. We shouldn't close offices, we should just open the doors so people can talk to someone who knows what he's talking about. How does the Prime Minister view that? We want an honest government. My colleague Renske Leijten will come up with an initiative to restore the IRS. In January, the Prime Minister himself spoke with the parents. He even shed a tear. "With this kind of human suffering, you can't keep it dry; otherwise it's private," he said. It was an affair, he said, which was as big for him as MH17 and Groningen. He and Minister Hoekstra promised the parents: this year we will solve it. But now? Surgery's stopped. No payments are made to parents until 1 November. Then what is your promise worth, I ask the Prime Minister. When will it finally be settled? If the child care allowance affair has shown one more thing, it is that your origin, where your cradle or even your parents' cradle stood, still matters. That's not only when you're applying for a job or looking for a new home. That goes even for how the government treats you. They don't look at what you do, they look at your color or your last name. The repulsion against this and other forms of discrimination is increasing, and rightly so. We do not want a society in which people are judged by color, sexual orientation, faith or whatever. This gives rise to a social debate that sometimes grinds and wrings, but that's okay. It's part of the job. There is no shine in our society without that friction. But you can expect a government to support that call by tackling discrimination everywhere in our society and, of course, setting an example itself. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister in detail what he is going to do about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u671	I shall begin by giving Mr Baudet the opportunity to put a short question and then Mr Jetten. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u672	I have a question for Mrs Marijnissen and she starts with a quote. "New generations have risen claiming equivalence. We've come a long way. The discussion about Black Piet was difficult, but even a Rutte had to acknowledge that he has changed. That is not an achievement of Rutte, but of society. I'm so proud of that." Does Mrs Marijnissen know whose quote this quote came from?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u673	Mr Baudet has prepared it, so I'm sure he has it ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u674	Yeah, that's from your group colleague, SP member Sadet Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u675	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u676	So she advocates abandoning, abandoning, of Black Pete purely and solely because of his skin color. Does Mrs Marijnissen agree? Is she also against that cute childhood friend who has been cheerful to our children's parties since time immemorial?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u677	Let me say one thing first. I'm going to answer your question about Black Pete, but the next thing I need to know is really off my chest. The first two hours of this debate were already about Akwasi, Moroccans and now it's about Black Piet. And that's when we've been in the middle of the biggest crisis since the war! There's a hell of a lot at stake. The infections are getting worse. We have a lot of things to discuss here and what is it about: Akwasi, Moroccans and now Black Piet. I'm going to answer your question...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u678	I'd like to say a few words about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u679	... but I wanted to bring this up, because I find it very sad somewhere that these things are discussed at the General Reviews. Now the answer to your question about Black Pete. Yeah, that's right. We have always said that it is up to society. You can see that Black Pete is changing; at least, you may not see that, but I can see that around me. I think that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u680	I think your constituents are very different about that. I also think that your constituents, as far as there are still many of them, understand very well that the situation we are now facing in the Netherlands is largely linked to the identity crisis. It comes on the one hand by massive immigration and on the other hand by constantly bowing to multiculturalism, identity politics, self-loathing, not celebrating our holidays and throwing our language, our identity and everything into gibberish or selling out. Those two go hand in hand. So, of course, I agree with you that we need to do much more to invest in the public sector. This could also happen if we did not sacrifice our entire prosperity, our entire society to the totems, the three mega-projects: European unification, climate transition and ever-increasing immigration. So it has absolutely to do with each other and I don't understand why you don't see it. The group of people you want to stand up for, the people in the popular neighbourhoods and the people who may have it less easy and may not be able to pay their rent...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u681	And the question, Mr. Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u682	...that whole group of Dutch clings to the Netherlands. They love the Netherlands and you're gonna choke them. On the street, if the SP takes action, you might do so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u683	The question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u684	... but here you are actually blowing with the globalist winds of the people in trade-K.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u685	That wasn't a question, but you can respond to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u686	It's a nice presentation, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u687	I'd like to respond, Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind. I hear Mr Baudet saying that he is also in favour of investing in the public sector. I like that. I invite him to hang out in there together. I heard him on TV yesterday saying that he mainly believes in even more market. He actually said: the VVD is actually not off the market at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u688	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u689	If you see where the market didn't work, that's the concern. If you're gonna talk to someone who works in healthcare, they can explain how the market didn't work in healthcare. So if you say you're also in favour of investing in the public sector, I say even more market and also investing in the public sector doesn't go hand in hand, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u690	That's not true. That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u691	And then there's identity policy. We're not going along with that at all. I would like to ask you why. You're throwing all sorts of things together. You talked about the language, the culture and... Why? We're very much for our language. In fact, when we see that there is unnecessary use of English or other things, for example, we talk to people about it. We are not participating in identity policy at all. But that's different than you don't want to defy racism or discrimination or denying it, like you do. That's a whole different thing. We have argued very often, for example, recently that there should or should be a national historical museum, in which we can look back on our history, so that we do not have to erase it. 'Cause we're not from the school that says it all needs to be tucked away. Not at all! I don't feel at home at all. But we do want a national historical museum where you could, for example, give context to our history.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u692	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u693	But then protect Black Pete and do not discriminate against him because of his skin color. And about market forces: there are two different things. You have the public goods and the public sector, all kinds of things that may not be open to the free market, such as train networks and things like that. But you also have whole sectors of society, where SMEs andzzp'ers work, where you should have huge deregulation. You will see that people you may now hope to win if your constituents can get a job much easier. It's just that if you hire people as companies or as political parties - maybe we all have experience with them - there are people who don't fit in and then you want to be able to fire them. That's also one of the problems of the seat robbery here. You can't get rid of people once they're in it. This is also a problem for companies. And that's why you have to make it possible for companies to fire people more easily, because then they also dare to hire people easily.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u694	In my view, Mr Baudet has not fully understood our democracy, because if you are elected as a representative of the people here, you are indeed not employed anywhere. You cannot just fire someone, and perhaps it is a good thing, I think, to protect our democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u695	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u696	Yes, I understand. But what the hell does that have to do with anything, I would like to ask Mr Baudet,...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u697	That's a striking analogy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u698	No, Mr. Baudet. No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u699	... as an example. It's just very...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u700	No, Mr. Baudet. No, Mr. Baudet. Mrs Marijnissen was in the process of answering your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u701	Mr Baudet started by saying: I want to go along with Mrs Marijnissen that more investment is needed in the public sector. Then I say: that does not go hand in hand with the fact that I heard you on TV yesterday, namely that there should be much more market. It is precisely that market thinking has failed! That's what we see everywhere. We see home care organisations that have to compete with each other in order to win a tender. That's bad for the people who work there, it's bad for the people who need the care and it's really expensive. So let's stop doing that and not bring any more market into the public sector, as you like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u702	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u703	No, I do not want to "market in the public sector," but I say that it is two different spheres that are systematically confusing you. Public transport, care or a number of other sectors, for example, are not suitable for even more market forces. Moreover, the problem in care is not primarily the market operation, but the bureaucracy of VVD drivers among health insurers. It is a cartel problem and not so much a market problem. When it comes to the SMEs and thezzp'ers, you have to deal with people who are suffering from this ever-growing government. The point I made about the robbery of seats is that in all sectors of society people sometimes make mistakes in selection procedures. One in ten or even one in five people who are hired appear not to be entirely in place in that organization, that company or that political party within a few months of their adoption. So what you need to do as a healthy society is make it possible to let people go so that people who have a business or otherwise could hire people can do that much easier because they know that if it doesn't match, they can get rid of those people again. That's basic logic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u704	What I find so special about Mr Baudet's contribution is that he pretends to come up with all kinds of new ideas, but what I hear is mainly old politics, I am sorry, about market thinking, for example. You say that there is a need for more market, when we are actually seeing here that almost everyone from left to right is now seeing that the market has not brought us what we hoped for. But this again, when it comes to job insecurity...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u705	Mr. Jetten. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u706	... permanent jobs and insecure contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u707	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u708	If something isn't the problem, if I can finish my sentence, Mr. Chairman, it's that people can't lose their jobs fast enough. The Borstlap Committee has just been mentioned as saying that it is precisely the precarious work that has gone through and that we need to bring back a little bit and bring balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u709	That is why it is so good that the Forum for Democracy is here. I'll keep you all sharp, because you're wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u710	Good. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u711	Mrs Marijnissen has a great deal of attention to the care. We also know from Mrs Marijnissen that she stands firm in her defence. I assume that the SP will table further motions and amendments to amend the cabinet's proposals in this respect. Actually, I have a simple question. If your amendments to the healthcare budget are not adopted, will the SP Group vote against the VWS budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u712	We're not there yet, Mr. Jetten. No, I think that's a little... It was about ideas, it was said, and about vision. I would like to say in particular: let us talk about this. I myself feel less about threatening to do so now, because that is often explained here in The Hague, with 'yes, if the cabinet does not do this or this, we may be voting against the budget'. No, that's not how I stand here. Because there are also a lot of much needed things in the budget. I'll be the first to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u713	Good. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u714	That is a very clear answer. I welcome that, because in that budget VWS includes 300 million for vaccines, 450 million extra for the GDGs and 720 million for next year's healthcare bonus. I appreciate that Mrs Marijnissen always comes forward with very concrete proposals. And I also appreciate that she is looking at the budget constructively and will not vote it away by definition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u715	Sure. But we are absolutely not against that either, Mr. Jetten, don't worry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u716	Please continue, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u717	Mr. Chairman. From an honest government I would have stayed there. You expect her to speak the truth and not see the truth as an option. For years, at least 70 civilian victims of the Hawija bombing in Iraq in 2015 were kept hidden from the House of Representatives, but thus also from the population. Journalists had to use it to cover up the truth of this tragedy. Otherwise, we still didn't know. I call on the Prime Minister to make a serious effort quickly to regulate the victims and survivors of the Dutch air strike on Hawija. With pain in the heart, these days we see the footage from Lesbos. As long as politics can discuss asylum policy, this hell must stop for children. Let us do more about a fair asylum policy. I call on the government to take care of 500 single children in the Netherlands, as has been advocated many times by us. People's confidence in politics must be restored. Last week we took an important first step. The SP is very pleased that it seems that our initiative law is going to receive the support of a majority in this Chamber for a corrective referendum. This is important because it gives people the opportunity to whistle back politics at times when decisions are taken here that people do not want at all. This can help to strengthen parliamentary democracy and restore people's confidence in politics. Mr. Chairman. We want a fair economy, an economy that doesn't work for just one person, but for all of us. The corona crisis has magnified the imbalances in our economy. Because the analysis is not new to us and we have been thinking about solutions for some time now, we have already got the ideas ready. That's why today I announce three laws that the SP submits: the fair income law, sharing the law fairly and deciding the law fairly. In an economy that works for everyone, it is not just the shareholders who are in charge, but the people who create this value. We want to give employees more control over larger companies, strategic investments and rewards at the top, mergers or sales of the company. That's why we've got the law on the table. We also want not only shareholders but also employees to be informed of profits. Over the past few decades, we've seen that companies have been doing very well. The profits went through the roof, so did the benefits to shareholders. But the workers who did the work generally didn't see much of it. There's gotta be another way. That is why we have also made a law for fair profit sharing. We also have a law on fair income, which increases the minimum wage and related benefits from about €10 to €14. That is much better for people, but also for our economy. Research by Rabobank shows that the real income of people in the Netherlands has actually stopped for 40 years, in contrast to the profits of companies. If we raise the minimum wage, it can have a driving effect on other wages in the Netherlands. Many people who work in a profession that we now call crucial cleaners, shopkeepers, caregivers, parcel delivery workers, very often have to do their job for the minimum wage. They work hard, and they don't get much. Even the CPB has recently come to a moving insight. Where previously the claim was that an increase in the minimum wage would be at the expense of employment, they have now come back from it. That's why the law is fair income. Soon after a pension deal was concluded, some disturbing news came out. The pensions of millions of pensioners and workers will not rise with prices for years to come. In fact, there is a threat of reductions in pensions, even though most pensions have not been and have already been reduced for more than ten years. Last week there was another bad news: the premiums paid by employees and employers are likely to rise by tens of euros. What is the government going to do to prevent these massive reductions in pensions? Many politicians regret all the insecure jobs that make young people vulnerable in the labour market. Think of the opinions of the Borstlap Committee on the flexibilisation of the Dutch labour market. Does the Prime Minister recognise that the crisis increases the division in the Netherlands and that the economically weaker shoulders are once again bearing the heavy burden? Teenagers, 20s, 30s hopping from insecure contract to insecure contract. The number ofzzp'ers has grown enormously. Some want that, but not many. Young people also want certainty: that you can build a future together, that you have a home and children and an income that you can support your family with. We can really do something about that today. As far as our economy is concerned, let's not go back to "old normal," but let's start building a fair economy today. We have the proposals ready. Mr. Chairman. We have resisted further lowering the tax on profits. And not just us, many parties in the Chamber and a lot of people in the country. This is not the time to hand out gifts to companies that, despite the corona crisis, are still profitable. It is therefore a good thing that the cabinet does not further reduce the tax on profits for large companies. Even if it doesn't seem like a set-off, it's a delay in this case. It is really disappointing that the cabinet wants to give this 2 billion by another route as a tax discount for companies. Previously, we had the abolition of the dividend tax. In the end, under great pressure, that didn't happen. But now we have put new gift paper around it and it became "decreasing the profit tax." We have also talked about this very often in the Chamber. The coalition held on to it, but in the end it is off the table and we now have the so-called investment discount for companies. Mr President, as I said, it may be a different, more beautiful name, but it is exactly the same. We therefore call on the Cabinet not to do so now and to invest this money in a different way. Previously, we introduced the term "climate justice." I am glad that this concept is now being taken over more often. The climate crisis is a major threat and we can tackle it hand in hand with the economic crisis and the housing crisis. The so-called investment fund could be used to do exactly this. We could invest billions in a fair climate policy that benefits people with low and middle incomes. And let's do it righteously. The SP comes with a large investment plan for solar panels and insulation. Why isn't the government going to put solar panels on all the roofs that are suitable for this? This is three times a profit: it means a lower energy bill for households, extra jobs, because those solar panels need to be laid, and we are contributing to the fight against climate change. Mr. Chairman. In six months, the Netherlands will go to the ballot box. Then it will become clear whether we will continue on the path of growing division or whether we will make the transition to another policy. As far as the SP is concerned, it can and must be changed. About how we deal with each other, our morale. But also about how we make our country fairer. There is something very wrong with a society in which banks are saved, but hospitals go bankrupt. We see a growing division in our country. Who can afford it for himself or for his parents, can arrange good care in a beautiful care farm or a luxurious care villa. But if you don't have that well-stocked wallet, you have to fight for a place in the nursing home around the corner, where the workload is high. Whoever can afford it buys a place at a very expensive private school. I don't know if you hear those commercials on the radio too: "Would you like to get the best out of your child? Then opt for private education." Every time I hear that commercial, I wonder again: doesn't everyone want the best education for their child? Everyone wants to get the best out of their kid, don't they? All children deserve good education. Whoever has money can hire a security company or a private neighborhood guard to drive through the neighborhood to see if there's a break-in. But in a lot of residential areas we see that the police station has disappeared and the neighborhood agent is often chasing it. "American states" was once used as a threat, but unfortunately it is becoming more and more reality. We don't have to go that way. Right now is the time for change. It is precisely now that we can reduce the differences in our country and make our country fairer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u718	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I will give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u719	Mr. Chairman. If I had to take the corona crisis in a picture, I wouldn't really be able to choose between the care workers who go to clients in a miraculous approach, the overcrowded ic's or the empty rooms at a funeral. If I had to take Dutch politics in one image during this crisis, it is this: VVD Minister Bruins who works and drags to keep the Netherlands healthy until he can no longer, until he literally succumbs, here in this room. And that Martin van Rijn then gets up from opposition party PvdA and says: I'm getting in; country interest over party interest. That's great, to dare to acknowledge it when it doesn't work anymore, and to stand up if you don't actually have to. I find this unique cooperation a wonderful illustration of how our country is tackling it in this crisis. That is what I want to talk about today: cooperation in our democracy. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands was brought to a standstill this year. Life felt empty, with empty shopping streets, empty trains and empty agendas. Except for those people who carry society: from the students to the teachers, and from civil servants to care workers. We conquered the first wave over the past few months through harmony and patience, and got air again. After the summer, the number of corona infections has increased significantly. Today it was 1,542 again. The discomfort is increasing. I would like to ask the cabinet how it looks at the importance of reciprocity. How can we ask Dutch people to comply with the corona rules if they have to hang on for hours to schedule a test and then have to wait a long time for the results? Mr. Chairman. A vaccine is far from being in sight. If there is, it'll take months for everyone to have access to it. So we're stuck with that virus for a while. But how do we recapture life in the meantime? Are we prepared to lose security if we can regain freedom to do so? What risks do we want to take? Are we willing to use quick tests in theatres and stadiums, at parties and festivals? How does the cabinet view the experiences in other European countries and countries outside Europe? Because in times of stress and crisis, the natural tendency is to turn you inside, with the windows closed and the shutters closed. But that's the wrong reaction. That is how I look at Denmark, where everyone can be tested whenever they want, even without any complaints. To Germany, where nursing homes were well protected and teachers have easy access to a test. And I am looking at the United Kingdom, where this corona crisis is used to ask fundamental questions about long-term health and care. We must also note that we have been the victims of a avoidable crisis. This pandemic didn't come out of the sky. It's a zoonoses. That's a disease that jumps from animal to human, just like the Q fever in 2014. Hundreds of people still suffer from chronic complaints in the Netherlands. Here in the Netherlands, such a zoonosis, such a disease that jumps from animal to man, gets a good job. We are one of the few countries where the disease has passed from human to animal and from animal to human. That has everything to do with the choices we have made in recent decades. If we do not stop the bio-industry, we will remain vulnerable as a country. If we do not end the trade in exotic animals, we remain vulnerable as an international community. If we don't take care of the planet, the planet won't take care of us. Mr. Chairman. I would have done anything if we'd never had to go through this crisis. But the crisis came, with all the misery of that. Unfortunately, we can't reverse that, but we can learn from it. That is why I ask the cabinet whether this is not the time to give people more space at work, from education to care, without unnecessary bureaucracy and with more confidence and space. Is this not the time to give people the right to work at home at least one day a week? Isn't it time to make lawsuits digitally accessible? Isn't this the time to give people the opportunity to talk to a general practitioner or specialist more often via image? Is this not the year to end cheap business flights from Amsterdam to London, Paris, Brussels and Berlin? I'd like a response from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to working together, our little country is big. That's what we've seen this year. Teachers who dropped everything to arrange among themselves that there was education for every child, nurses who kept shoulder-to-shoulder the ic's spinning and garbage collectors who went down the street after the street while we were sitting at home. What society can do, work together, in recent years we have also seen here in politics The Hague. The task of this cabinet was to honour the promise that the political centre will bring concrete change. That is not a result of profit or loss, however much I like it when Geert Wilders concludes that the Prime Minister has become a D66 or that the throne speech has been written by Sigrid Kaag. The results of this cabinet are the results of sincere cooperation and willingness to listen to each other. In consultation with environmental organisations and reasonable farmers, it was decided to invest in nature and help farmers make the transition to sustainable agriculture. In consultation with provinces, municipalities and housing corporations about the disaster on the housing market, this cabinet now builds a building record. This cabinet has solved essential problems where previous Cabinets are bitten to bite. Cooperation with opposition and civil society was the key to success. I am thinking of the Climate Agreement, which has been concluded with the agreement of more than 300 civil society organisations and brings clean air, clean water and economic opportunities for the next 30 years. I am thinking of the pension agreement, with the agreement of employers and unions, which provides security for young and old. I am thinking of the new Law on Integration, with the agreement of all 150 members of this House of Representatives, which brings the promise of a society in which everyone can really participate. When things got really difficult over the last few months, we saw something special: opposition parties closing the queues and saving jobs and fighting for our health together with the cabinet, who do not play games with recovery packages. In the hectic of this time, you'd almost forget how special that is. But let me just say one more thing: this cooperation deserves a compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u720	Mr Jetten made a statement which, of course, I have to respond to. He said the pension agreement provides security for both young and old. Is that the certainty in the newspaper yesterday that there is a 4% discount?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u721	Security for young and old, because it will allow pensions to rise more quickly in the coming years if it is economically viable, but also guarantee for young people that there will also be a pension in 10, 20, 30, 40 years when they are finished working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u722	This is another one of those bullshit-shit bullshit-shit There's 1,600 billion in the pot. It's been said that we're going to go to returns later. On average, 7% returns have been made in recent years. That return has never been paid. That has not been paid out in the last 12 years. That's what stayed in the pot. For all those young people, all those people who are currently working, the pension is not indexed. Nor is it indexed for all people receiving pensions. That's where injustice has been done. Can D66 confirm that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u723	No. No injustice has been done. What Mrs Van Brenk is saying about the developments in the pension system in recent years is true, but that is, of course, because of the pension system that is no longer in line with the current situation. That is why I welcome the fact that Minister Koolmees, together with unions and employers, has reached an agreement to ensure that pensions can rise faster if they are economically competitive and sometimes go down a little faster if the economy is worse. In my opinion, this is much better suited to the needs of people who are already retired to benefit from economic growth, but also to the justified demand of young people that they would like to enjoy a good old age in 30 years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u724	The last question, because we both have absolutely different beliefs in this dossier. It is calculated with an interest rate, and we know that this measure is not right. You are right to say that good returns have been achieved in recent years. In the future, we're gonna pay out those returns. Then why don't we look back at what has been realized and at least give people what they deserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u725	In the pension system, we need to look not only at what rights people have today, but also at all those other people who participate in the pension system. Congratulations to Mrs Van Brenk, because she will be 60 today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u726	I would like to add my congratulations to Mrs Van Brenn. While we are at it, we could also mention Mrs Agema. I think it's her birthday too today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u727	I just heard I shouldn't have mentioned the age.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u728	Mr Wilders says she has turned 25. That's not the first time that there's a core of truth in what he's saying, but it's not exactly true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u729	Where's Mrs. Agema? Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u730	Of course, he's gone now. My question concerns a very serious subject. Mr Jetten has just made a very binding tone. He appreciated listening to each other on all kinds of topics. At the same time, however, during this period D66 also passed a bill on the so-called "completed life." I actually have a simple question. I am aware that this issue is far too heavy to be dealt with in the same way in an interruption. However, it was a striking element in the past period. The research report indicated that this wish is very often ambivalent. There can be financial problems or people can have a certain problem for a long time. In view of the results of this investigation report and in view of the corona crisis, did D66 consider saying that this is not the right time to go through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u731	I wouldn't use that word. My colleague Pia Dijkstra from D66 has recently submitted the legislative proposal for life, so that we can discuss it with each other in this house. I suspect that we are going to organise extensive round tables on this, that groups are going to put questions about it and that we are going to do the plenary part on this indeed heavy subject carefully with each other. The debate between Mr Segers and Mr Klaver was also about the legislative proposal being completed. I liked Mr Klaver's answer very much. Also, life completed by the bill does not mean that you can simply seize life completed by that means. There are a lot of safeguards in that bill, precisely to prevent such a decision from going to ice overnight. It pays a lot of attention to the importance of having a good conversation with family, relatives and specialists. These specialists can really understand whether there is a long-term death wish after a completed life or whether there is someone who is in a very bad situation and actually wants or can be helped in a different way. I think it's important that this is in order. Finally, Mr President. I myself lost both grandparents from my father's side shortly before the corona crisis. They were both married in the nineties and more than seventy years. I've had the privilege of sitting on my grandmother's deathbed for a few days. I thought that was a very special moment, because that way, along with a number of other family members, I could say goodbye to her. But it also hurt me very much to see how a woman who has been an entrepreneur for her whole life, raised a large family and spent 70 years together with her husband with a lot of love and pleasure, in a few months went down in a very bad way. She saw her life come to an end in a way that didn't make her happy at all. That was exactly during the period when the report came out and my colleague Pia Dijkstra looked on the basis of that report to see if the legislative proposal had yet to be amended. Through that personal experience, I have become even more convinced that we should not only fight for a dignified life for everyone, but also give people the opportunity to die in dignity when life is complete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u732	First of all, my condolences. Certainly the loss of both grandparents and everything that was involved must be a very intense experience. Then back to the subject. You took it with you, but in the report I just noticed that, of course, we all have our own experiences that especially the ambivalence of that wish for death came to light. It was actually said: it is a far too rosy term, because in fact that is not at all what is going on in general. People generally don't say: I see that everything is complete. That whole repulsiveness and all this ambivalence, did they at D66 still play a role in considering whether we should continue on this path?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u733	We have, of course, looked very seriously at this and we have not agreed for nothing that we would wait for that report before we would submit the legislative proposal at all. I also do not believe that life completed by the bill is a solution that millions of Dutch people are waiting for, but there is indeed a group of Dutch people who consider their lives to be complete at some point and who want to direct the end of their lives. It is precisely for that group that we are trying to find a solution with this bill. Once again, as far as I am concerned, we are going to deal with this bill carefully, precisely because of the gravity of the subject. I am sure that Mr Dijkstra will do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u734	Proceed, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u735	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about the power of cooperation. The Climate Act is perhaps one of the best recent examples of broad political cooperation. But now that the corona crisis is calling for the attention of everyone in this Chamber, we are threatening to lose the ability, as the King said yesterday in his speech to the throne, to look beyond the crisis to the future as well. And we can't afford that, because it's raining weather records and the global forest fires are driving us into action. D66 therefore wants to use the Climate Agreement as a springboard for a clean, fair and modern economy. The need for this was underlined once again in the European state of the Union. Now is the time to adjust. There are plenty of opportunities to accelerate, just think of wind at sea. Recently, large offshore wind farms have also been awarded without subsidies to the Dutch companies that build those wind farms, but also think of the many bottlenecks that still need to be addressed, such as our power grid. It is, of course, absurd that clean electricity cannot access the electricity grid, because the power grid is not ready. So all these big roofs remain empty, while we would all like to see solar panels on them. Choosing for tomorrow's world is not a question of a green religion, but of a hard economy. Investment in new technology keeps people at work and helps companies to create global opportunities to tackle a global problem. Where some politicians may think "not right now," this cabinet says with D66 "now it is." Of course, there is never a good time for a flight tax or a CO tax for industry, but they are coming now. That deserves a compliment from the cabinet. But all these efforts under the climate agreement do not mean that we can rest on our laurels. The look must go forward! That is why D66 and GroenLinks propose to lay new soil in the Climate Act, at least 55% reduction in 2030. We have achieved incredibly much over the past few years, but we are far from there. Therefore, let the cabinet remain eager on climate ambitions, because the attack is the best defense. That's what the Dutch sea hero Maarten Tromp said, but Johan Cruijff didn't come to the same conclusion entirely by chance. We, like the Netherlands, are best if we move forward. Mr. Chairman. Cooperation is also about solidarity between generations and our ability to increase opportunities for future generations. We have to be sober as to see that this is not yet working properly. Where your cradle has stood is now much more than ten years ago the case was decisive for your chances. And the problems start at a young age. Schools in difficult neighbourhoods suffer most from the shortage of teachers. Many students have language disadvantages, are in large classes or suffer from loss of concentration due to problems at home. And there are still far too many children who feel such pain. In the past year I have met them again everywhere, for example here in The Hague at the Princess Day breakfast. There, a 8-year-old boy told me to choose between breakfast or lunch every day. Or in Amsterdam, there a 15-year-old girl has no internet at home and therefore she cannot take lessons in corona time. Teachers teaching in such classes are doing so much more than teaching alone. And even that's not enough, because inequality continues after the school bell. Those who do not have access to books, museums or sports will have fewer opportunities for development. That pattern continues in high school, where in some places crime invades the classroom. That is of course a disaster for children, because where knives are in the lockers, hardly any book is opened. Thus, the accumulation of training becomes an exception, but the accumulation of problems becomes the norm. Those for whom the catching-up race at school has been successful against all expectations, wait a new hurdle, because more than half of the Dutch people are discriminated against in their application, of whom a substantial part is based on origin; more than half. Do you think it's weird that people get the feeling they're not part of it? Do you find it strange that they feel that the Dutch promise of a free and dignified existence for everyone was never spent on them? If there is something we need and can achieve through cooperation here, it is that everyone, all the people who live in our country, get the same chance to be who they want to be, from Groningen to Goes. No one's pathetic, everyone's part of it. Why should we want to do that? That's because radical equality of opportunity shouldn't be utopian. It is the bitter need to fight for it in the face of an economic storm. For how much better would our country be, how much stronger would our country be if we were to fully exploit the potential of all those people? If young people from Kattenburg, Katendrecht and Kanaleneiland do get a fair chance of a career? What if women get the chance to work their whole lives? If newcomers are given the opportunity to use their talents and experience in the workplace? Because without the talent and the input of those people, we're making our country small, and that's bad for those people, but it's much worse for society. So what's it gonna take to make our country big again? What is needed to blossom all Dutch people? D66 has ideas for that. Free childcare, so that children meet at a young age and women can maintain the rhythm of work. An end to the surcharge system, so that people get trust and never have to be afraid of government letters again. A loosening of debt restructuring on top of what the cabinet is already doing, to remove stress and care for people in debt. More patience with children in education, so that everyone can develop their talents optimally. Less workload and more salary for teachers, so children go home inspired after that one lesson. And finally: a rich school day, with food, sports, music and homework accompaniment, so that children never depend on their parents' wallet for their chances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u736	Then I have Mr Klaver for a brief question. The same applies to Mr Azarkan, Mr Asscher, Mr Segers and Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u737	Nice words about cooperation and its importance. It reminded me of the contribution I made last year, in which I said that we should talk to each other about content and that there should not only be under duress or the threat that something goes beach and can be discussed. I would like to say that in the emergency situations that may still arise, this cabinet can at least count on the support of GroenLinks to take decisions quickly, even if we cannot see over everything. I'd rather do something than do nothing. But with this budget we have a little more time. That means we can't just go one way. You say: it is nice that the opposition has helped at the moment when it was really necessary and we had to decide quickly. But I am therefore curious whether you, from the coalition, are really going to give the room to live on the budget that is in it; I am thinking of the budget for it; I am also thinking, for example, of the healthcare budget, from the point of view of discussing it with each other and really changing something with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u738	As far as I am concerned, that is precisely the purpose of the debates we have these two days, the General Political Reviews. This objective is not only to have the cabinet defend the plans for next year, but also to see where there are still needs from the Chamber. I have heard a number of constructive contributions today, for example, on stimulating housing or limiting rent increases or on how to put a few more accents in the budgets to help groups that need it most. I look forward to the concrete proposals from the opposition. My appeal to the ministers in box K is: look where you can do business, not only for this Chamber but also for the other side of the Binnenhof.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u739	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u740	I did hear room when it was about living. I think it is necessary to discuss this further this autumn. I didn't actually hear that space, or much less, when it was about the care, when we know that there are major problems in that area. Of course, we will not make any progress if we stand alone against each other and talk about more or less. I hope that there is room for us to see how we can take a step further in terms of structurally better rewarding the people who work in healthcare. I really hope that the mental space is there, at least at D66, to encourage this minister to talk about that too, to see what is possible at that point and to resolve the bottlenecks that we have known for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u741	We have recently had an extensive debate on healthcare salaries. However, I have the feeling that the Minister listened carefully at the time and that he is already looking at what he can do in the budget about bottlenecks such as the flow of certain functions and the appreciation of certain functions. The Economic and Social Council is coming up with a study on how to do more structuralally in the care sector. Mr Klaver knows that I think this is important not only for the care, but also for education and the police. There, too, there are many functions for which people get too low a starting salary or have to wait too long for flow. The same applies to people who work in irregularity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u742	I have the impression you're all in agreement. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u743	Well, not at this last point. At least, that's what I wanted to check out. Now Mr Jetten explains what is already in the healthcare budget. I'm saying I don't think that's enough. I would like to talk about this further, including the structural reward.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u744	You made that clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u745	I would like to know from Mr Jetten whether he agrees with me that we should see whether we can improve it for structural remuneration in this budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u746	That will also depend on where you pay that off. For what if we increase healthcare salaries, but instead increase healthcare premiums by tens of euros? Then that seems to me to be a choice that we have to think very carefully about. There is already money in this budget to implement the collective agreement of care. There's 5% of that. Think also of the two legitimate bonuses for the care workers. But I look forward to the opposition's proposals to do more if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u747	I was about to ask, Mr. Chairman, how's it going? Not everyone listens as well. I'll put the best foot back on and do it in half instead of in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u748	I don't understand what you mean at all, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u749	Well, I see you sigh and support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u750	Do you think that's crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u751	No, I just noticed, so I thought I'd help you out a little bit. I want to set an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u752	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u753	Mr Jetten just said that it should not matter where your cradle stood for how far you come into society. He and his colleagues often speak nicely about this. I have read through the Millions and the different budgets. Yesterday, the King said that I liked the words 'that it is a threat to our rule of law' if we continue to experience racism and discrimination in this way and do not tackle it. He even said, "It's unacceptable." But where in the budget do I see an intensification? What are we gonna do with money?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u754	I said yesterday after the throne speech that I thought the King's passage on racism was one of the most beautiful passages. I liked that the King, in his speech to the throne, was so full of thought. But I also said that it must not be the King's fine words. Nor should it be left to the pre-summer hype, in which everyone on social media supported racism. We really need to get to work now. Mr Azarkan is asking me over, but I can imagine that there are no huge increases in the budget. When it comes to racism and discrimination, my question to the cabinet is above all: where are all the legislative proposals that we have been asking for for some time? I am referring to the legislative proposals to tackle discrimination in the housing market and the labour market, in order to impose far higher fines than we have done so far. I will return to that in my speech in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u755	Now I am a small party and I am not in the coalition, but Mr Jetten really has the opportunity not only to get words into the throne speech. He has, I suppose, also the opportunity to provide for measures covered by money. It is a little disturbing that he is at the same level as I am and has to ask the cabinet how it intends to solve that. I can expect that Mr Jetten has made a great effort to actually do something about combating racism and discrimination. Because I also hear his colleague Mrs Kaag say nice things about childcare for children, but it doesn't happen that much. Surely the picture should not linger that D66 speaks very nice words, but in the coalition is actually a bit waiting and nothing can be done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u756	This is bullshit, of course. We have had an extensive debate on racism and discrimination here before the summer. As a Chamber, we have given all kinds of assignments to the Cabinet to work on. Those motions have to be carried out, and they're working on it. This concerns a ban on discrimination in temporary employment agencies, a duty to report discrimination in temporary employment agencies and the doubling of fines in the case of discrimination in the labour market. My party has called for internship selection to be brought back into MBOs, so that students and students are not dependent on all kinds of intermediate forms that prevent them from getting into that internship. So we have made many concrete proposals that have also been adopted by this Chamber. That's what the Cabinet is doing. If we do not see the results in the coming months, I promise you that I will be there with you on the interrupting microphone to call these ministers to account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u757	We read in the budget that the cabinet is proposing to spend one billion less on education next year: from EUR 43.2 billion to EUR 42.2 billion. After hearing Mr Jetten's speech, my question is: is D66 satisfied with that or are we going to do something about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u758	I also saw some of Mr Asscher's tweets on this yesterday. Since then, I have been wondering: does anyone need to explain to Mr Asscher what exactly is in the budget OCW because he didn't understand it, or is he just deliberately lying to the people at home? 'Cause it doesn't add up to the billion he's talking about. I'll explain that too. I understand, of course, that Mr Asscher is still experiencing a minor trauma from the last OCW budget that the Rutte/Asscher cabinet sent to the Chamber, because it then had a 415 million hole in education. We filled that with this cabinet again. But the difference between that 2020 and 2021 budget, which adds up to about 1 billion, is actually quite simple to explain. There was around 700 million corona support for education, culture and the media in that 2020 budget. There was a few hundred million in annual card fees, of which the government had agreed to pay them out a little earlier, because it would be better for cash flows. And there is about 200 million in it for the retraining of workers, a subject which both Mr Asscher and I are very concerned about, which has been transferred from Education to SZW's programmes, which was indeed devoted to education and retraining, but has just been parked in another place. If you eliminate all that, next year there will be no billion less than this year's money for education and training. I hope that reassures both of us. I think Mr Asscher is going to ask me now: but should we not do much more than there is now in that budget? Yeah, I kind of agree with him. Because what's in it is that they were already older agreements and that's extra money to strengthen those teachers' salaries and to tackle the teachers' shortage in the big cities. I'd have liked to have done a lot more. I, together with colleague Paul van Meenen, presented a whole new educational vision for the summer, which has a lot to do with what I was just talking about, that rich school day. But last summer, in this corona crisis, we also had to make the choice to use the money mainly to preserve jobs and jobs and retrain people who are at risk of losing their jobs. As a result, there was not a lot of structural money in a number of other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u759	I said it's one billion less next year; is D66 satisfied? Through a little... Well, I'm not gonna qualify at all, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u760	But can you now admit that that billion is wrong? 'Cause that'd be nice. Then people at home don't have to worry anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u761	I have just heard Mr Jetten say that this amounts to a billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u762	But no less for education and retraining. It can be explained why, if you just add the bubbles together. Yes, that's very flat, but I've got you a little higher up, Mr. Asscher. I think you can argue that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u763	Let us indeed keep it understandable to the people at home. I read in the documents sent to me by the cabinet: one billion less next year. I just heard a speech about what should be done better, so I ask D66: is D66 satisfied? So the answer is actually: no, we're not satisfied, but you can't say that because that's too flat.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u764	No, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u765	I'm in a different place. I will come to my question, Mr President. I find that all kinds of D66s want to help, but I think Mr Jetten can do just fine himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u766	Mr Asscher really does not need these kind of faint remarks in between. If he wants to ask me a question, he just needs to ask that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u767	I was still talking. We have seen that Sigrid Kaag said that actually in this cabinet too little has been done on higher education and science. We now hear from Mr Jetten: much more needs to be done. I think this is the time. Because we know one thing in such an economic crisis: we're going to talk about the fund with the 20 billion, but we're going to do the children short if we don't invest in education right now. So please let us take advantage of the opportunity that this cabinet does not have a majority and make it more. So it wasn't meant to get a catty explanation about the tables at all. I think more needs to be done. The problems in those classes are big and my appeal is, after a whole story about working together and education: let's do that and let's get more money in the classroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u768	We have been able to do a lot with this cabinet in recent years. We managed to raise 8% for teachers in primary education. We have, in my opinion, made sure that last year, together with the Labour Party in these General Reviews, there were some extras for that shortage of teachers and for teachers who are now working in very difficult places and also need that salary increase. We've spent 400 million extra on basic and scientific research. We cut the tuition in half in the first year. We reduced the tuition fees for the pabo, so that many more people choose the beautiful course of teacher. So in these four years, we've done an incredible amount for the education I'm proud of. What Mrs Kaag has said, and what I have said a number of times myself, is that we have not succeeded in meeting all expectations from the educational field in those four years. And there's also a lot to do, because, as I just said, the place of your cradle has become even more decisive over the last ten years. So what I advocate is not just more money for education, but also a fundamentally different view on how we set up that education, so that you no longer have to determine at the age of 10 which further education you pass through and thus determine the rest of your career. So this fundamentally different view, I want to work on it with Mr Asscher and others over the next few years. I have tried to refute the fact that next year there will be less money available for education than this year, because that is not the case. We had just added a lot of extra money this year because of that corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u769	When D66 talks about a fundamentally different view of education, I always have to think involuntarily of Article 23 of the Constitution, which defends the freedom of education. I hope that will remain there for a very long time. But I have another question, and it's about cooperation. Mr Jetten spoke very nicely about this. That appealed to me. Our parties have had to get used to each other, to cooperation. That is not natural at all, and yet we have looked each other up and we have sought that cooperation with trial and error. He also praised social cooperation. I am thinking, for example, of the Climate Agreement and the pension agreement, where you really need the polder. Isn't that something that I would like to ask you to highlight: a change in relation to the past of D66, where your predecessor was even very critical of a social agreement and said 'politics must take the lead' and 'all these agreements are only difficult'? Isn't this a turnaround in the mind of D66?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u770	No, I don't think that's too bad. I have also tried to make that clear in the interrupting debate with Mr Heerma. Civil society can be very important in designing what measures are best to improve the climate and cooperation with trade unions and employers is important because they are ultimately the owners of the funds in the pension fund, but I do think it is up to politics to make the big choices. We need to explain what the dot is on the horizon, what the preconditions are for getting there, what the budget is and what the challenge is if civil society does not get out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u771	Yet again in the reflection on liberalism and what that has brought us. Then we come to each other in the sense that it is difficult to imagine that there would have been a climate agreement without civil society and that it is difficult to imagine that there would have been a pension agreement without employers and employees who had been endlessly on the table with your own minister. If there is one polder in our country today, it is the Minister of Social Affairs and I would like to commend him for that. But we need each other. So we need that cooperation. And that is, at least in my memory, quite different from the way D66 looked at the social agreement. I think it's an improvement, but maybe it's nice to say that out loud for once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u772	First of all, thank you for the appreciation for chord builder Wouter Koolmees. The word "liberalism" just fell. In recent weeks I noticed that several politicians from the CDA and the Christian Union House have rediscovered their fight against liberalism. I would like to say a few things about that. Personally, I also think that we and the whole Western world have gone through neoliberalism, which is about 'fat, me, me and the rest can choke'. But I call myself social-liberal. That is ultimately about putting the individual into the power of the individual, releasing the individual, so that everyone has the chance to make some of their life. This also means that sometimes as a government you help people take a step forward. If I look at the developments in Europe and in the world, I do not see social liberalism as the great threat to our society and our prosperity but an increasing nationalism, an increasing French Timmermans has a wonderful word for it, but I have just forgotten nationalism and protectionism, which are everywhere in response to the economic crisis, to the corona crisis. I believe that this is a far greater threat to our prosperity and the way in which we live together than liberalism as I fill in liberalism.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u773	I also have a question to ask Mr Jetten about this cooperation and the country's interest over party interests and possibly also about the coalition interest. I have your new party leader or group... um... What do you call that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u774	Lister puller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u775	Lister puller.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u776	Lister puller! Yeah, exactly. I've heard your list leader in the news, in the media, say she's going for a new moral leadership. She also says that under my leadership, for example, D66 would never have voted against a motion to bring those 500 refugee children to the Netherlands. My question to Mr Jetten is: what is really needed to do that after the elections, with a straight back and that new moral leadership, when that is not possible in this coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u777	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is not quoting Sigrid Kaag correctly, so maybe she should read it back. To be honest, I think it's kind of... Well, what word should I use? Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's interruption microphone on this subject is about morality! If there is one MP in this Chamber who has regularly switched party colour over the past four years and if there is one MP who voted differently on motions about children from Moria, then it is you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. When you had to vote on a motion to get 500 children out of Greece before the summer, it was not just the coalition that voted against it. At that time it was also you and Mr Krol in that group that you formed together. So don't come here and lecture me about morality and a straight back!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u778	I understand this played anger very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u779	No, that's genuine anger, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u780	Well, that's very strange, because I've always had a straight back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u781	Ha!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u782	That's why I split up!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u783	Haa, yeah. All right, all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u784	If there's one common thread, it's sticking to your ideals. For that I have separated myself from the Party for the Animals with pain in the heart. In the end, I also separated myself from Mr Krol, because I was indeed forced to vote against that motion of 500 children, which I myself had argued in favour of. I do have something like: a straight back, I'm getting out! I want to stick to my ideals. I have shown in the Moria refugee debate over the past week that I still stand for those same ideals and also that I want to bring those 500 refugees and more to the Netherlands to give them a good future, which we want for us Dutch too. And yes, D66, I mean, if there's been one party that hasn't kept its back straight for the past four years or three and a half years, then it's D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u785	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u786	Abolition of the referendum. Eliminate their own crown jewels without replacing them! Then the tow law. Earlier, when D66 was not yet in coalition control, she tabled 23 amendments to that same drag law. No amendment was subsequently adopted, and then D66 led the law to drive it through the Chamber with steam and boiling water. The tow law; the citizen is being watched. And then again, indeed, about putting the Moria refugees on the website: yes, we would have liked to vote in favour of that motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u787	Your question, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u788	But we couldn't, because we're in the coalition. I would ask Mr Jetten once again what is needed to achieve the new moral leadership and the straight back that you are advocating after the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u789	Let me say a few things about refugee policy and specifically about Moria. This Chamber is a majority in favour of a stricter asylum system. D66 and the Christian Union are in a coalition with two other parties that think differently than my own party does. What we have tried time and again over the past three and a half years, also successfully, is to see how we can get a step further together through cooperation. This has led, among other things, to the closure of a children's pardon, which allowed hundreds of rooted children and their families to stay in the Netherlands. This also means that every time I look for opportunities to do more for refugees who are in a very vulnerable situation elsewhere in the world. If I had 76 seats with D66 or with the other progressive parties, I could and would want to do a lot more. I would, for example, personally raise the UNHCR quota for refugees we persuade from vulnerable camps far above 500. A few thousand I find a number that the Netherlands could handle. But the reality is that there is no majority for that in this House of Representatives. Then I, as the D66 Group Chairman, can do two things. Then I can stand on the sidelines and try every time to get my moral right. But I can also try to do something. Last week was the choice we had to make: are we going to get zero people from Lesbos or 100? Then I chose to make arrangements so that 100 people from a vulnerable, pissed-off position can come from Moria to the Netherlands. That means at least for 100 people perspective again. I'm not saying it's done and it's good. Because today we saw a very clear appeal from President Von der Leyen to Europe at the State of the Union. The situation on the Greek islands is degrading and can no longer continue. The European Commission calls on all Member States. If we are now building refugee camps in Greece that are decent, and if people go through the asylum procedure on the ground, we are also asking Member States to establish migration policies so that the asylum seekers who are now detained in Greece can be fairly distributed across the European Union. My question to the cabinet, to the Prime Minister, is that it was actually in my speech later, but I am simply asking it now whether he is prepared to look together with the European Commission in the coming period to see how the new European migration policy can be adopted by a qualified majority, so that we not only fundamentally improve the lives of 100 people, but of all the thousands of refugees who are now in a hopeless situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u790	I note that this is not an answer to my question, but I would like to comment on what Mr Jetten is saying here. Mr Jetten is well aware that the UNHCR resettlement quota was first set at 750 in the coalition agreement. The beautiful children's pardon that Mr Jetten is now applauding, and that is of course very good, let us be clear about that, has been deducted from the 750 UNHCR resettlement refugees. Those are very vulnerable refugees. This deal for the 100 Moreia refugees has also been deducted from the same UNHCR resettlement deal. So refugees have been exchanged. D66 did not get anything from it and did not ensure that additional refugees, vulnerable refugees, could come to the Netherlands. So I ask my question again. What is needed in a next cabinet, in a next coalition or after the elections, if D66 is perhaps in the opposition, to keep that straight back and choose this new moral leadership?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u791	What is needed is for the parties in favour of a more humane and generous refugee policy to reach a majority in this Chamber. That's why we're going to campaign with each other in the next few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u792	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u793	Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about opportunities for young children growing up in a place where those opportunities aren't always there. And now I come to young people. Because in the corona crisis, it was rightly often about vulnerable elderly people. But too little has been said about the fate of young people. Many young people feel lonely and more isolated than ever from social contact. Many young people experience study problems, because the loneliness of the study room is really different from the incentives of the lecture hall or the internship place. Many young people are threatened with livelihoods as their jobs and side jobs disappear first. As a society, we ask incredibly many young people. Let us save a generation that will have to fight out of the mud of this economic crisis in the coming years, because we need them. My group is therefore pleased that the cabinet is taking action against the disaster in the housing market, which affects young people disproportionately. Last year I asked the Prime Minister during the General Reviews whether the cabinet could abolish the transfer tax for starters. This will soon save thousands of euros for many people. I am glad that the four coalition parties have managed to settle that now. Realising concrete improvements through cooperation is what my group likes to see in politics. But we must also admit that the proposals we are making do not always lead to the desired result. It is important to then be prepared to adjust the course. Today I mention in particular the scholarship, the loan system such as VVD and PvdA, which have been shaped with the support of GroenLinks and D66. That doesn't work for a lot of students. Too many young people now experience anxiety or fear and that is certainly true for students where studying is not yet a family tradition. That is why my group proposed a new scholarship before the summer. Students whose parents earn up to twice as much as double as six out of ten students receive a scholarship of up to €400 per month. On top of that, with a reform of the surcharge system, a tax discount for everyone, which also provides students with a maximum of €300 per basket. My colleague Jan Paternotte, spokesperson for higher education, will invite all parties to consider this in the coming months, so that we can also give this concrete form. Mr. Chairman. Living together in the past year also often meant strike together. Climate strikers, farmers and the Black Lives Matter movement found their way to Malieveld and to village squares all over the country. Black Lives Matter hit me in particular. It hurts me when a black-colored generationmate tells me this: when I look in the mirror in the morning, the first thing I see is that black skin color and the realization that it puts me at 1-0 late every day. It is therefore particularly good that so many people from young to old have expressed their anger in a dignified manner about the injustice of deep-rooted and institutional racism that they face every day. Racism, which makes these Dutch people not always feel part of our country. Racism, which limits them in the chances of making some life. The many protests on the street and the actions on the Internet.......................................................................................................................................................................................... For this reason, before the summer, we already put forward proposals against racism and discrimination: Double the chance of taking action and the fine for discrimination in the labour market and the housing market. Get internship selection on MBOs inside the school. Set up anti-discrimination detectives so that the crime that is called discrimination never remains on the shelf. I ask the cabinet: when will the law on discrimination in application procedures finally come to the Chamber? As far as D66 is concerned, that law also imposes a duty of notification on temporary employment agencies which are asked by customers to discriminate at the front. Mr. Chairman. We realize at the celebration of 75 years of liberation how much we depend on what is happening outside our borders. We owe our freedom to people from outside our country. We owe our security, prosperity and well-being to the institutions of the post-war world, in particular NATO, the United Nations and the miracle of cooperation known as the European Union. But these international institutions are under pressure. Trump's government opposes the goalposts of international trade during the game. The British Government is putting Irish peace on the line if international law is not right for it. Chinese guys go through Africa and Europe looking for geopolitical power. And Russia reacts as it always does when the call for freedom and self-determination becomes louder in its surrounding countries: with repression, violence and support for dictators. Among cynics, prejudice over national politicians is that they are never, in the end, willing to give up some of their power, that they will never be able to step over their own shadow in the interests of international cooperation and that a strong Europe is therefore a utopia. The Americans say "turkeys don't vote for Christmas." But personally, I don't believe that. I think that together we can understand better and better that a strong Europe also serves the Dutch interest. I have seen this in recent months with the European Recovery Fund, where the vast majority in this Chamber have agreed to the greatest step forward in European integration since the Treaty of Lisbon. I see it in my group's plea for a European defence, which is increasingly popular, so that we can finally defend the external borders of our continent itself. I hope to see it in our proposal to include Dutch membership of the European Union in our Constitution in the coming months, because cross-border cooperation is as essential as Dutch cooperation here. In recent years, the Prime Minister has always insisted that Europe should become a geopolitical player. I very much agree with that, because the Netherlands has an important role and important interests in this. Can the Prime Minister describe a concrete initiative resulting from this analysis that Europe should play a more geopolitical role? What leads does he see for this geopolitical agenda in the State of the Union? How would he like the European Union to respond to the issue of Belarus, now that we can no longer rely on American leadership to impose sanctions? And what opportunities do I have just asked the Prime Minister to finally adopt this European migration policy by a democratically qualified majority of European countries? After all, this European migration policy is the key to solving all these degrading circumstances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u794	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u795	I'll come to my conclusion after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u796	Okay. A brief question, Mrs Ouwehand. I want to suspend for dinner before someone passes out. So a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u797	Quite right, Mr. Chairman. There are two problems in politics. One is when you're in a coalition and you don't get everything that suits your ideals. I find all kinds of things about Moria or nitrogen, but that is not my question right now. The other problem is when parties are really wrong. I believe that Mr Jetten has a climate heart and that he is truly convinced that we must keep the earth viable. But that multilateral world order in which D66 continues to believe so blindly, shows all the time that it leads to you having a cup of tea with Bolsonaro, while human rights activists begging us not to make deals with that man anymore and not to give the European market a gift.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u798	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u799	... I wonder what remains of D66's reflection and, above all, the adjustment of course. 'Cause that blind trade drive...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u800	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u801	... goes against...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u802	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u803	... against all climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u804	I've seen that reflection lately. Together, the Netherlands and France have taken the initiative to open up the debate within the European Union on the conditions for new trade agreements: much more attention to nature, to biodiversity, to local populations that may be under pressure from those trade agreements. That is an important lesson, because international trade has brought us a great deal: prosperity and well-being around the world. We owe our prosperity to that international world, which has actually become smaller and smaller. But we must not close our eyes to the impact that that has on rainforests, on vulnerable natural areas, on biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u805	Also applies to you: short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u806	As far as we are concerned, we are putting this kind of framework conditions much tighter in new international trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u807	I suggest you finish up and not look at Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u808	That chalk stripe suit has been attracting my attention all day. It's really hard not to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u809	One final question and then you can finish.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u810	I'm making a concluding remark...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u811	You don't have to, because you still have a second term. I shall now give the floor to Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u812	Mr. Chairman. This is important. This isn't enough. "Attention to" is what we have been trying for 25 years, and that is not a buffer against this tough trade drive, that climate destruction and that deforestation that just goes on. Something more about nature and biodiversity is not going to help, of course. I call on Mr Jetten to reflect, say goodbye to this neoliberal trade agenda, because it runs counter to your own climate ambitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u813	No, not a few paragraphs, but simply the harsh demand that countries wishing to trade with the EU comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and, as far as I am concerned, with the new UN Convention on Biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u814	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u815	Mr President, I shall conclude. When the trees shake off their leaves in the fall, I see from my small village Ubbergen the Waalbrug near Nijmegen. When the Allies started Operation Market Garden exactly 76 years ago this week, they knew they had to conquer and defend a number of bridges, including the Waal Bridge. The Germans were sure that they could stop the Allies at the Waalbrug in Nijmegen. The explosives were ready to blow up the bridge as soon as they got there, to make the passage of the Allies impossible. When a German soldier pulled the lever on 18 September 1944, nothing happened. A 22-year-old student at the Catholic University of Nijmegen, Jan van Hoof, had prepared his act of resistance for months. He had joined a canoe club to spy on the Germans. If you have ever seen the Waal flow at Nijmegen, you know that canoeing on that river is a real challenge. On the evening of 18 September 1944, Jan van Hoof told his sister: the bridge must be saved now. The Waalbrug was saved by the courage of a few. The war was won by the power of many. Peace and democracy were then settled by the power of cooperation. The aim of democracy is for us, all of us minority representatives, to finally reach agreement after political battle. That we do not stand against each other, but that we build with respect and patience on a country where people are happy. That we can, we've seen in the past. Whether it has a future, we decide here with each other, ourselves. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u816	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I suggest we suspend until 8:50.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u817	Minister Koolmees has warned the others again. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u818	Mr. Chairman. It was a very strange sensation. A few weeks ago, I stood in front of a door that normally always swings open and now it stays closed. We left the groceries at the door and I was waving in front of a window like that. On the other side was my sister with her family with four children. Corona, one after the other. Quarantine, keep your distance, stay inside with four kids. That all worked out well. It was exciting for a while, but fortunately it went well. That's an experience that a lot of families now have. You really feel like you're in the wrong movie when you're out there waving crazy. There's something extremely alienating about that. This is, of course, true of the whole crisis. Things that are nice, like having contact and embracing each other, suddenly bring an invisible danger. That's what caused us as individuals a huge loneliness, because you can't give your mother a hug. For people who've had to isolate themselves all these months. There were dramas in nursing homes and in disability care. It was a huge revolution of all the certainties there were. Besides that disease, everything turned upside down. Teachers suddenly had to teach online. I saw at home what that was like for a teenager in junior high, with Fortnite in one hand and one eye on the screen. After a few weeks, that's not fun anymore. I did tell you about my sister-in-law's bar. After the press conference, entrepreneurs suddenly, paf, lost all turnover. The savings melted away. After that, a lot of people lost their jobs. They got debts and payment problems. There was enormous uncertainty for a lot of people. It makes perfect sense that we all want to go back to normal. To be honest, I feel the same way. Can we now consider 2020 to be over? But we're far from normal. Look at today, with an sometimes alienating debate. On the subjects that received a lot of attention, I sometimes thought: are we in 2003, 2005 or is this 2020? Today there were hundreds of children at home because the teacher had to wait for a test result. Today people in health care didn't go to work because of complaints, because they had to wait for a test result. Today thousands of passengers arrived at Schiphol Airport from orange areas, and the test street is closed again. In that respect, it's really not going well. If you add that to the figures we see, to the fact that hospitalizations are rising, to the fact that the spread to other age groups is increasing, then we all have a huge problem. The ink black economic outlook the King told us about is optimistic if we do not succeed now to prevent that second wave. A debate on the budget or the economy must therefore also be about how we fight corona better. Especially together with Lilian Marijnissen, I have often stood here before the summer, and asked the Prime Minister what the strategy was. He then said: that's a little semantic; containment is not a goal, but a means. At the beginning of the summer there were less than 200 infections per week. A week. In the meantime, all kinds of announcements have been made. A lot of times it was someone else's fault. It was the young people; people were going to test too much; people weren't testing enough; people were going to get fun tests. I don't think anyone who's ever done the test thinks, "I'm gonna do that again for fun." The common denominator is that it keeps increasing. When I asked the Chamber to come back from the recess, there was a little reaction here and there as: that must be an opposition thing. No, we have a huge problem if we don't get it under control right now. I also think that the cabinet should clarify this. I read that the ball is played back and forth between the municipalities and the cabinet, but there should have been agreements a long time ago at what value you take what measure you take. What do you do locally, what do you do regionally and what do you do nationally? That shoving off that responsibility doesn't work. The characteristic of this crisis is that we all have to take responsibility and that a lot of Dutch people do. Then it doesn't fit as a cabinet that actually throws responsibility like some kind of hot potato at another, often with some kind of raised finger. Actually, it has to be different. Mr. Chairman. Even if it gets under control, we're definitely not in the kind of normal you should want. I don't know about you guys, but I'm really not gonna be happy about that one-and-a-half-meter society. We're not made for it as humans. We want to see each other. We want to celebrate. We want to enjoy the beautiful things of life and not that poor new normal. But when we go back to normal, it's also the question of you wanting everything back like this. Back we want the contact, the hug, the proximity, the fact that you can cheer with a large group in a stadium. For some reason, I am thinking of Mr Dijkhoff. That's building bridges, isn't it? But not everything about how things are in the Netherlands is something you need to want back. We also started to find things that aren't normal at all. In that respect, corona also works as a magnifying glass, a magnifying glass under which you see things, Mr. Heerma called it underlying suffering................................................................................................................................................ The fact that people haven't been able to build a buffer at all and they've lost it now shows that people really aren't able to take care of it all for themselves in this society. There are children who lag behind and don't have the same chances. That has been exacerbated by this crisis, but that problem was, of course, already there. The flex workers, the self-employed, are fortunately mentioned by everyone here. At the beginning of the crisis, the Minister for Economic Affairs said that they chose it. I'm glad I didn't hear that again. It shows that our society, our economy, still has a number of worn-in patterns that are not good. That creates a lot of uncertainty. We don't have to go back there. The bizarre thing is, of course, that liberals have told us very often that that actually makes sense. Success is a choice and in case of a lack of success you probably didn't do your best. That's kind of a choice, too. This crisis, of course, shows how absurd that is. No one chooses to get sick. No one chooses that the restaurant suddenly closes. No, it shows something completely different. This lack of leadership actually requires a different kind of leadership, a different form of looking at each other, because of such a liberal view of society comes also that silly idea of e.g. the Netherlands. I've always thought that was a horrible term. People who talk about the e.g. the Netherlands don't really like this country, because you run an e.g. That's what profit is all about. But that's what you feel in the way the government sometimes works. In an e.g. standards and values are much more a stick to beat another than something to attract yourself to. In one e.g. the Netherlands, empathy or moving into another or feeling each other's pain is not very logical. You feel there's a need for a very different kind of society. I found these demonstrations against racism very hopeful in that respect. There is a new generation who says: we want to be treated equally, we want to have equal control in this country; that future is equal to all of us. It is a very hopeful sign when in a society young people say: ho, ho, that future is ours. They're right. You saw in that corona crisis that is fortunately also by you very much mentioned here wonderful examples of sacrifice, people who were already retired and yet reappeared, from nurses to Martin van Rijn. You saw people turning in their leave days. You saw entrepreneurs brewing beer one day and disinfectants the next day. These are fantastic examples of leadership in such a crisis. In some respects, they are also examples of moral leadership: people who set themselves aside to do something for another. We should be grateful for that. This can be expected from politics and the cabinet. If you look at how things have been with that leadership in the past period, you can see a very big contrast. You see a cabinet that's very hard and hard. If two young people were too close together, they were fined €390. Police officers, who didn't choose that job for that reason, had to fine just behavior. You saw that young people who were together in a slightly too large group in good weather got their asses kicked by this cabinet: "Asos! This costs unnecessary lives!" They were very, very harsh words. You saw it this week: people are in need in the European Union, whatever the background. It's agreed to help a number of people. It is triumphantly celebrated that no extra child is saved at the bottom of the line. That's a very hard message. It's an unnecessary message. And in the meantime, you see, I hardly have to explain it anymore, the contrast with how the cabinet judges itself: about the things that aren't getting in order and about the promises that are being made. The moral leadership of Rutte III is therefore heartfelt for the other and mild and merciful, as Dutch core values, for himself. I hope this changes. This e.g. thinking has not only led to a kind of kill-off between people, while there is a need for solidarity against division, but has also led to an economic system in which I do not think we are getting the best out of ourselves. We have already seen in the studies that people have started to work harder in recent decades, whereas they have actually not improved in income. That's acid. We also see the examples of this. One on the one hand appealing, but also poignant example I found Sarah. She's 17 and she told me she was working at an ice cream parlor when the crisis started. She had to get out and found work at a big grocery store, as you're supposed to say. She worked behind the register. She really liked the work. In no time, she was promoted to the vegetables. That's a place with more responsibility. She had a nice boss. But she said it was pretty intense, too. There were quite a lot of customers in such a store who thought it was all bullshit or who didn't follow the rules. They bowed over her or came to the store with complaints. This had consequences for her. She couldn't go to her grandmother's either. That's what she was worried about. That grocery store did a great job. It's been a great summer. The supermarket holding company therefore decided to pay extra 220 million euros. That's great, of course. At least someone will be happy with what that crisis has brought. But how much do you think Sarah got out of that 220 million? Nothing, of course. She got a gift certificate from the web store at that supermarket, because the money went to the shareholders. Something's really not going well there. In my opinion, we should not only strive to control that virus and go back to meeting and embracing each other normally, but also to a better normal, a better order. The time when the market is the goal, the government the problem and the individual the solution, must be over. That system is bankrupt, technical and moral. You'll notice it in this room, of course. I was talking about the eulogy that Mr Heerma said here at the funeral of neoliberalism. Mr. Chairman. I won't say it's easy. That is not my job as leader of an opposition party, as leader of the Labour Party; the only opposition party who knows what it's like to rule and who knows what it's like to do that in a crisis. So I think it is appropriate to say here in particular that I have appreciation and respect for the people who do that work. There's a lot of work going on. It's Rutte's farewell budget. There will be many other farewell moments, but this is the time to express that thanks. I see he appreciates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u819	It takes so long that I thought there was...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u820	It takes courage to rule in crisis time, and that applies to all those parties and all those leaders. It requires very hard work and it is not rewarded with electoral success in all cases either, so just accept that compliment, I would say. But I also think it is up to opposition parties to always come up with proposals and not just say what is not right and what is not right. You also have to make alternatives, and I've always done so in the past few years. We have also made a counter-budget with GroenLinks and the SP this year, and that is not the end of it! It's our job to show you how to do it differently. I think it's also appropriate to indicate what you've learned along the way. When I talk about the problems that have arisen in our society and about the fact that people have become insecure, I also have to look at the role that my party has played in those years. I also have to look at the mistakes I made as Minister and Deputy Prime Minister myself in that previous crisis. I do not know which of you, apart from Mr Baudet, has never made a mistake, but I think that most of you have done so. The question is, of course, what do you learn from it and what do you take with you so that we can do better now? The most important lesson I learned in that previous economic crisis is that in the choices we are making now, we must put the security of life of every human being first. We must not allow ourselves to be sealed by the existing economic order, but we must strive for a better economic order in which we can guarantee this security of existence. There, too, the corona crisis offers insights. That magnifying glass can also give us a glimpse of a future that is better, that is more beautiful. That is a vision of a future of our country that is more in keeping with what people long for. I think many of us long for a country where you enjoy clean air, beautiful nature and time for each other. We long for a country with less division, a country where we look for each other a little more, a country where we look for each other and a country where we share the things we achieve more fairly. There are elements we can use and lessons we can apply. Corona shows that solidarity is part of the solution rather than the problem. Where everyone understands that you have to fight corona together and not as an individual, I think that also applies to the other problems that our society is now holding hostage: inequality and the climate crisis. Where corona shows that when the need is for a man, we eventually know what the vital professions are in a society, we can also, of course, ensure that those people get more appreciation and that people in those vital professions can stop working sooner if they are there after a lot of years and deserve it. Corona also shows that thinking of "actually there is little to change" and "There is no alternative," Thatcher's TINA, is nonsense. In the blink of an eye, our whole way of life has changed. In the blink of an eye, we started to behave differently, but you can also use that for something positive. If we are able to change so much, then we can also achieve very nice things with each other. The role of the government. I heard the VVD today talking about a strong government. I've heard the CDA talk about a strong government with a strong society. I heard D66 say: yes, we are liberal but not so bad. Something's changing! We have seen that the government can be an ally as a matter of fact. An income scheme forzzp'ers? "No, you can't." But all of a sudden, he was there. Mass support for companies? It was there all of a sudden. If we were to use these elements for how we are going to build the country better, what can we do, to start with, how we are going to get out of the crisis? As far as I am concerned, how we are going to get out of the crisis is also one of the essential political questions of this debate. How are we gonna do that? Do we really choose to hold as many people as possible and then rebuild the country? Or do we shoot into the old recipe and the old reflex: let companies adapt to the new normal? You know, that's five feet. And yes, people must be thrown out. And no misunderstanding, of course, there's a game of education somewhere. But we know, I've seen that for a lot of workers who are now concerned about their jobs, that training doesn't offer anything at all. Who do you need to call? You come home, you lose your job, a huge punch. What do you mean, you're just gonna retrain? I believe that we are now faced with a very important choice. That deadline's October 1st. It's two weeks. Then the second aid package expires and then we have to opt for a new aid package. It is right, and with our support, that a huge amount of money has been allocated to support. The counter goes to the 100 billion. You don't want it all to go away and we still see hundreds of thousands of people in unemployment. People are pretty worried about that. There are also people who feel that that is already a bit crooked. Booking is an example: first nearly 2 billion in grants, because they are so innovative, then more than 4 billion in profits, as with Sarah, then came to the shareholders asking for support, 64 million, and then announced that you are going to fire a quarter of your people. People who see that don't feel right away: hey, we're all gonna figure it out. So I think this is the time to ask for a work guarantee. Now you're gonna say, "A job guarantee, there are people who lose their jobs," right? Yeah, it's a work warranty. I think, and we should also note this, that companies that we support should cooperate in providing a guarantee that if you don't keep your own job, what can you do, as we know, from work to work. That means you're being trained, not on nothing, but on a new job, so you don't get into that benefit. This is also a condition for us to support the new package. I really believe that this is how we can manage to save thousands of Dutch people from unemployment. In this way, we may also be able to develop a new form of social security that is much better for people and for the economy and that can bring us something in the years to come. On the other hand, there is now a danger of a trap door, because that arrangement is being phased out and the dismissal penalty is out. If you are not careful, you will give the entrepreneurs the message unconsciously or unintentionally: go ahead and fire them. But I also think Sarah should share more. I heard the SP on that, so I'm sure that's where we can work together. So we have a law in preparation that ensures that, if you pay dividends, you have to pay out at least a part of your employees, because that's what you hear, because it's better, because it's better for everyone. The same applies to the investments we are making now. We invest out of the crisis, but we do so with a Wopke-Wiebes fund. That threatened to become a guard fund first, because it didn't come. Now it's there, and now there's some weird stuff in there. The defence of the VVD with the aim of 'we do not really want to deal with this as a parliament, because we cannot be trusted ourselves', I still think 'away with us'. That's not good for politics. In the case of investments in the future, we make highly political choices. Then we must also have the courage to collide and then we must also dare to put visions against each other. For example, we must now opt for investing in affordable living. If you do that, it will help against unemployment, the climate crisis and the housing shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u821	I hear Mr Asscher here looking for ways of supporting things on the basis of the responsibility which he, in my opinion, sets out nicely in his speech. Can he explain to me a little more what he means by guarantees? If you spend so much money on work to work and if you do have a chance to look at a different kind of social security, at lifelong learning and that sort of thing, I can see for myself that you should not miss that opportunity. But we also know that unemployment is going to rise even in the mildest macro-scenarios, because we are going into a crisis. Is a guarantee then an individual guarantee at work, or is it linked to the from-work-to-workplaces? How does Mr Asscher see this guarantee being filled in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u822	I think you should do two things. You need to focus the investments you make on creating new work. I think that's what construction is for. So you should not accept unemployment as it develops. The other is about the way in which you should provide such a job guarantee. I think that should be an individual claim. It's about knowing as an employee: I can't be fired, but if my job falls, there has to be a trajectory from work to work. Did you arrange it in 100% of the cases? No. But neither was that old support package. Then there was a discharge. In the first package there was one for all cases. That helps. That's a stick behind the door. That means you're gonna put the incentive on companies to keep people in service or help him or her into new work. The boss often knows his employee best and can best help think about where you are under the pans. The examples we see, such as the example of KLM and Valerie, from cabin crew to health care yesterday we saw at EenVandaag also a few examples of this are of course a very beckoning perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u823	I've also seen some really nice things from several big companies. But we know that a lot of companies applying for aid are small SMEs. These are very small companies with only a few people in service. These are often the people who have the most heart for the staff. But they end up in a certain corner: am I going to file for bankruptcy, or am I going to have to say goodbye to one or two people with pain in my heart? For them, tough demands may be reasons to say: sorry, but then I won't make it; then I have to file for bankruptcy. How do you prevent me from talking about KLM and Booking.com that with that small entrepreneur, with whom the heart is in the right place and for whom the choice can also be so hard, the guarantees or conditions, which may work in large but not in small, lead to more unemployment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u824	A very fair example. There are certainly small companies that can't organize that on their own. That's not my idea either. It will always have to be a collaboration between the existing employer, the government which is likely to be represented by the UWV or other bodies and an employer with whom there is a place. Then you can make appointments and you have to take care, especially the small employers, who are having a hard time. But still, it is good if as an employer, even as a small employer, you are aware that you have responsibility for not having final responsibility or obligation to achieve results to ensure that your employee ends up well. That change, so instead of "with pain in the heart, but best; ask for a benefit," we must continue now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u825	As Mr Asscher looks at this, it means that this can only be done with a very large involvement of employers and employees. I myself know that in a previous period of time around the social agreement I said to trade unions: you could have made arrangements for the first six months of WW rather than the last year. So Mr Asscher is sitting in that corner thinking as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u826	Yeah, just the sooner the better. Yeah, it's gonna be really hard. But this is a choice that can really make a difference in that respect. In February, we had 1 million vacancies. We say to each other: in itself, there was nothing wrong with the economy. The Minister of Finance said it yesterday when he offered the briefcase. There was a strong economy with a huge demand. So we have a responsibility to try to maintain that demand. Investment now also gives us the responsibility to focus on new jobs, for example in construction. Then I think you should ask companies that support you to take care of their employees, even if they no longer have a place in their company. It is indeed a tax, a burden, but it is also quite the opposite. Because we all pay for that support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u827	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u828	Mr. Chairman. It'll get me to live. Fortunately, we have been able to talk a lot about it in the debate. You can see that the apartment for one is a kind of fine, golden investment and for the other a fata morgana. This has huge consequences, including at the social level. Think of teachers who can't go back to the city and nurses who have that problem. The cabinet really doesn't do enough about that. The cabinet really doesn't do enough about this. There is more to it than saying: we want to go to housing and we believe that the government should be given a stronger role. You have to do it now. That landlord's tax was a crisis measure. We're having a different crisis now. One of the measures should be to delete it, so that you can reduce the rents, build much more affordable homes, get a lot more people to work and at the same time make them more sustainable. For the education sector there was just an unintentional prickly debate with D66 on...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am satisfied with the fact that funds have been allocated to reduce the backlogs. But where does the idea come from that it wouldn't be necessary next year? Where does the idea come from that you shouldn't be investing in education right now? Just now that you see that weakness, that unequal opportunity, you have to invest in it. This is essential for the economy, for growth capacity, but also for social cohesion. Mr. Chairman. Eventually you don't want to live in the Netherlands, but much more in the Netherlands as a kind of association you are all a member of, in which you share in prosperity and adversity, in which you also share love and suffering and in which you sometimes have to do a job. That could be here or somewhere else. You want a Netherlands that you are proud of and where you feel at home, which you have exactly as much claim to as anyone else. And then we can achieve great things, because let's face it: there's almost nothing impossible when we make those choices. We have to be honest about the sacrifices we are asking for; I think that is part of it. This means less private wealth and more public wealth. And Sara... It's nice to ask: what is your dream, what do you want to be after that vegetable department? Sara's dreamt of joining the police force for a long time. She wants to join the police, solve serious crimes, protect people, first on the street, then on a team like that. That's the new generation. He dreams of helping others, of becoming one of those many who take a step forward in such a crisis as this rather than backwards. And our task is to understand the sign of time. That period of market thinking as an almost religious-orthodox principle is over. It offers room for dreaming about a much brighter future. We'll have to do that out loud. "Dream out loud," said a friend of mine who missed us this year. If we do that, we can achieve a great deal. "It has to be different. Together we can!', said Joop den Uyl. We can do that, too, with a mission of security of existence for every human being. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u829	Thank you. There is another question from Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u830	I would just like to let Mr Asscher know that I thought it was a good thing that Mr Van Rijn jumped in. That solidarity is beautiful: sharing together, feeling together. I was wondering if that is what he is thinking of with where we are going with pensions, with yesterday's report on threatening reductions of 4%. Can we find the PvdA by our side to say that during that period when we go from one system to another, those discounts should not come?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u831	A very good point. Those messages scared the hell out of me. If the economy is much worse, you can see it back in the way those pension funds stand. That makes sense. But such a blow to so many people, including a lot of people who have not had it at all and who have had it very hard in recent years, that cannot be the intention. We are going to talk about this pension reform because I think that a large group of Dutch people should be able to stop working sooner, because I think that this period of non-indexing and of discounts for some of the pensioners has taken long enough, but also because I think that we should have a future system in place if Sara also retires at some point. We talked about that. The cabinet has to come up with effects. But this is also a very important question for me to ask the cabinet: what are we going to do to prevent or mitigate this blow? So I'm taking it to the cabinet on your behalf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u832	If 50PLUS comes up with a solution, are you positive? Would you like to take this into account, and can we come to you and ask for your support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u833	That depends of course on the solution, but if that is a good solution: of course! One of the nice things about politics can be, if you have a good idea and the other one is a better one, that you choose that better idea. For me, the test is whether it really contributes to security of existence. Older Dutch people differ greatly from each other, but now they also have a very bad period in which they don't see the grandchildren, in which they deny themselves all kinds of things and in which they no longer visit, concerts and all kinds of fun things. If you're worried about your income, it's gonna be a little hairy. So there too, as far as I am concerned, solidarity is a solution rather than a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u834	Thank you. I shall give the floor to Mr Segers in a moment. I call Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u835	Bronnie Ware. Bronnie Ware was a palliative nurse in Australia. She talked to people on their deathbed for years and listened to their stories. After a while, when she had heard a lot of stories, she discovered patterns in those stories, and she wrote them down. She mentioned the things that dying people were most sorry for. All the men of that generation, when they were men, they regretted that they had worked so hard and thus missed many of their loved ones and their children. Everyone missed his or her friends at the deathbed and was saddened that friendships had been watered down. And most people had listened too much to what other people expected of them and therefore had not remained true to their ideals and what they really thought was important. Madam President. On our deathbed doesn't count what we've done and not how much we've earned or what columnists think of us, let alone find some polls of us. What matters when we're most vulnerable is that there's someone holding our hand, that there's love. And actually, we all know this, too. Friendships and relationships make happiness and loneliness is poison. It is embedded in creation: you become and are human in relation to others. And yet great political choices have been motivated in our country as if we were primarily an individual, self-reliant and independent of others, as if we were merely making rational and well-considered choices. We know that it is not true, but nevertheless great political choices are based on the assumption that, above all, paid work makes us happy and that we must earn as much as possible. Individualism has set the tone in recent decades and there is a form of liberalism that assumes that we are a gay economicist, when we know or at least can know that it is simply not true. Madam President. The corona crisis is not our deathbed. There's life after this crisis. But in this crisis everything stood still, or almost everything. A lot of us fell out of our hands. And that's how we learn to look sharper at this time of year. We better see what's wrong, what doesn't work, and we better see what really matters. And what we see isn't new. It's the stories I've heard from young people in the formation of Coalition-Y. Imagine: a young couple meets during student time, full of ideals and hope for the future. Four years later, they're both saddled with a huge student debt and when they find work, there's little chance of a permanent contract. They deserve enough to make ends meet, but not enough to actually build anything. They don't make enough money to buy a house and can't afford to rent. They lack certainty to make choices for the future. The children's wish is parked for a while. The Prime Minister will recognize these stories. He's talking to coalition-Y kids. He picked up the glove, and I'm grateful to him for that. He sits regularly with colleagues on the table with coalition-Y people. The stories of these young people do not come from a kind of natural state. They are the result of political choices, in our tax system, in the labour market and in the housing market. Between us and new happiness, between us and caring for each other, there are laws and practical objections. And those laws and practical objections come from this Chamber. Madam President. The corona crisis has shown even more clearly what is not right. We see thatzzp'ers had to be helped first. They are the first children of this crisis to survive at the social minimum in the middle of this crisis. Madam President. We had a fair social contract in our country in the last century. We all got a chance to learn. We worked hard. The government protected against exploitation and distributed prosperity fairly. Profits from companies translated into higher wages. Employers and employees found each other in fair agreements. And there were companies like the old Philips. I have already referred to it: Mr Dijkhoff sketched a wonderful picture of this last year in the General Political Reviews. That's a good employer who took good care of employees like his grandfather. He made sure that there was a student fund for children like his mother, and a sports association from which the most beautiful football club in the Netherlands comes. Sure. I can't make it prettier, guys, this is it. This social contract has been broken. It has led to a generation of stagnation. Our economy has grown strongly over the last 40 years. The Rabobank calculated that 60% of them have been transferred to companies and 40% to the government, but families have been earning about the same disposable income for 40 years. That's just not fair. We've lost something in the past four decades. Our human image is limping. We're on one leg. We're not gay economists. We are people who thrive in friendship, love, care for each other. We're destined for bloom. Is this an open door, maybe? Well, then please let's walk through that very quickly and no longer stand outside. Because what is needed now is a policy that does justice to who we are. What is needed now are new choices. We can be encouraged by what Nelson Mandela once said: may our choices reflect our hope and not our fear. Yes, we can be afraid of economic contraction and put all the cards on GDP growth again. We can be afraid of people who are different from us and keep our borders closed. We can be afraid of losing large companies and keep our taxes artificially low. But we can also opt for policies that reflect not our fears but our hopes, and choose what really matters. The first thing that really matters, Madam President, is caring for each other. When I walk from here along the Hof pond to the Korte Voorhout, I see a prosperous country. But if I take the exit at Lange Poten and walk to the Schilderswijk, where my sister works at an elementary school, I hold my heart. It's one city, but it's two worlds. They are two neighborhoods close to each other and yet infinitely far apart by a fault line in this city. There are more fault lines running through our country. The corona crisis only makes those fault lines more visible, between people without debt and those in debt, between families with a good income and people who can barely make ends meet, between young people with whom things are going well and young people who are stuck, between the Randstad, which is growing, and regions that are shrinking. If we have learned anything in this crisis, then it is that concern for each other. That's what makes us human. That's what makes our country so beautiful. This has literally gained hands and feet in this corona crisis because of the fantastic work of our care staff. It is good that the cabinet is going to work on better working conditions, so that people keep fun in their work in care. It is good that bonuses will also be paid this year and next year. But I see that the left opposition is already getting ready, and more is needed. I would like to hear from the cabinet how it is shaping the investigation and how it can contribute to a better appreciation, more control and greater job satisfaction of the care staff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u836	Mr Segers quoted in his fine contribution The Marriage of Elsschot: "Between dream and deed laws stand in the way and practical objections." I think he's referring to the coalition. Of course, that's about a man who dreams of beating his wife to death...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u837	There!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u838	... because he's so sick of that marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u839	I didn't quite realize that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u840	"And how she looked up to him like a dying horse...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u841	I should have thought better about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u842	...but she didn't die, though his hellish mouth sucked the marrow out of her bones." That's the poem you just quoted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u843	Did you know that, Mr Segers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u844	This is a tribute to a gruesome question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u845	No, this sentence occurred to me and I didn't see this interruption coming. I should have prepared this better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u846	Don't blame your employees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u847	I wrote it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u848	But the question was about dream, deed and responsibility. That's why I understood the quote. I'm sure it wasn't so cruelly intended for the complete life of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u849	You know how I feel about completed life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u850	I was on my way to the care demonstration at the Malieveld, which was undressed because of corona. On the way there I saw Jesse Klaver and Lilian Marijnissen. We then received the message from EenVandaag: Gert-Jan Segers, coalition leader, says that more structural wages must be paid for the care. I can tell you that the people I spoke to on the Malieveld that day were delighted. They were really excited. I do not want to faint in any way in your direction, because I do respect how you do it as a coalition group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u851	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u852	But I do hope that we can now agree on how we can make that happen, because those people do deserve it. We really need more than the committee that is going to look at the bottlenecks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u853	But that's not a non-binding commission. So, yeah, I think there's a structural need to be paid more. I believe that there should be better working conditions and better appreciation. There are two ways to do that. That can now be done with.......................................................................................................................... Or you say: we are now giving money occasionally, but we are going to see what is needed structurally at the starting salaries, at the growth possibilities or at the working conditions. And we're also looking at the first six reasons why people leave care. It's not about money. It's about working conditions. All these elements need to be taken into account. And then I'd rather opt for a sustainable, good solution that really answers the questions that the staff has, rather than promise something quickly that I can't fully deliver and which may not end well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u854	I understand that after the wedding disenfranchisement, there are now objections to quickies. That wasn't my proposal either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u855	That can also happen within the marriage.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u856	My proposal was correct: not just a one-time thing in the form of a bonus, but structuralally more appreciation for the care. It costs money. It is fine to see where that can be best done, but I would think it really appropriate, listening to your speech, to say that there should be money if the committee points out those bottlenecks. 'Cause we actually know them. We know nurses work on a very low starting salary. We know that there are nurses who can make little growth. We know that there are major problems in home care. There must be money for that, otherwise it will be a quickie.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u857	You can't leak out of coalition talks and budget talks. That hardly happens in this coalition either, at least not so that I notice it very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u858	I hear a bit of a laugh here and there, but... There has been a very serious discussion about it in this way. It always sounds very flat when you say it's being talked about very seriously. But if there is now, to put it bluntly, a bucket of money going towards employers and saying that they should only do something, then we have no idea what is going on there. We do not know whether it will reach the people who were first in the line of fire, who were the first to put their hands up and have done most of the work. We don't know. We need to look at the initial salary. We need to look at people who have barely any growth potential. There will really be more need and it needs to be much more sophisticated. And frankly, we have very few instruments to get it where it really needs to be. That's what I've been told, and I've been persuaded by it. Because I think there is a sense that it can't be a cheap promise. You can't say: we'll set up a committee and we'll see. I think something's gonna change. There's no other way. You don't push such a big operation to make nothing change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u859	I sincerely regret that Mr Segers has let himself be convinced of this, because I believe that it is quite well known where these problems lie. They must be in the starter's pay. They are, of course, also among the various collective agreements. Older people's care has also been mentioned much more often here as well as the caregivers, the helpers and all that kind of function. I can also endorse the feeling that I sensed with carers when it became clear that the Christian Union was indeed speaking out. There was a feeling of hope behind it, like: is something going to happen? Now the conclusion turns out to be that there will be a committee. It will then study for six months on what is needed and, in the meantime, let us be honest about that, there will be minus 450 million for next year in the budget for healthcare salaries. Does Mr Segers understand that this is very disappointing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u860	There is money for raises, which goes up percentage, and good collective agreements have been concluded. Between now and another collective agreement there is a very important year. A bonus is awarded twice. That's occasional, and that's what we could do right away. We have said: yes, we cannot just applaud there you had quite a right point, we cannot just say 'thank you very much for what you did in this crisis' and that was that. That occasional money is being paid out, and that's real money. But we are also going to look at working conditions and the collective agreement. And there is an election in between, there is a formation in which important decisions fall and then the work of the committee is on the table and something has to be done. We will already pay for this in our electoral programme, and we will count on it. This is the way to a real change, which really makes the work of people in healthcare better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u861	I just know that so many healthcare professionals had hoped for a different outcome, precisely because there was so much applause, precisely because there were so many fine words spoken at the peak of the corona crisis about the important work they are doing. I also fear for another reason that we cannot afford to lift it over the elections. That is quite simply because in a year and a half there will be a shortage of about 80,000 people that we already need in healthcare. In addition, since Corona a substantial part of the people in the care are considering doing something else. Simply because the workload is high, the pay is low, but also, and that comes with it, because one is disappointed in politics, in the cabinet. It is felt: there was applause, but now that we are asking for a fair reward, there is not being given at home. How does Mr Segers look at that? Because we just can't afford this either, can we? We need all those caregivers very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u862	I was talking about hope. I think this is real hope. This isn't a hope of "ever gonna be okay, quietly, just wait." This is real hope in the here and now, in the short term. It's hope you have to realize. It's hope you must be able to live up to. You can make it happen in the short term with occasional money, but you can also make it happen in the longer term with real structural change. If I am asked whether I think there should be a structural element, better pay and better working conditions, my answer is yes. That was my answer to One Today. My answer is yes. But if you say that there are other circumstances and other reasons why people are leaving, that is precisely why there is a wide package that deals first with the first six reasons why people are leaving care. That's not cheap. You can't say: let's leave it at that, because those are the first six reasons; the seventh reason is money, we find that difficult and we park it. No, this is the way to better pay, better pay and a better collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u863	Short question. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u864	My concern now lies in this: a lot of people in care feel bought. A lot of people are gonna be running out of care, when we really can't have that. I think it is a challenge to look together to see if we do not have to wait until after the elections, but whether we can come up with something this autumn that will remove the bottlenecks that you are talking about and ensure that structural money is added by this autumn. So we're not gonna park it at a committee until after the elections, but we're gonna tackle the challenge here by saying, no, we have to do something extra and actually already. Are you willing to look into that in the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u865	We looked at what happened earlier in education. That has been dealt with in a very thorough way in the same way. It looked at all the scales, opportunities for growth and perspectives. That also cost a lot and has led to real changes. It is precisely this route in which I also honestly believe and which I find a very credible, good and hopeful story. I think that is really different from what we are saying now: we are smearing something thin about everything and everyone and we have no idea where it ends up. I would like to know, if we are to make extra money for this, that it really ends up where the most pain is now being suffered and where the hardest work is being done for the least money. I remember from the care debate, which is a painful reminder that salaries have been mentioned and that the pain has been mentioned. That's real pain and it requires real improvement. This is a hopeful route that I really believe leads to real change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u866	Finally, Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u867	I want to talk about what we agree on. Now, if you just push money into that UVA room, we don't know where it's going. That's the honest answer. But that does not mean that the other option is to take the time until after the elections. I believe that it should be possible to identify and agree on the bottlenecks in the coming weeks, including with employers and employees, in order to ensure that we can already agree on what this structural remuneration will be like this autumn. I feel rushed. Let me be very honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u868	I can tell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u869	I feel really hasty, because all those nurses and nurses I've been talking to say, "I don't need it anymore, forget it, I quit." We have made the promise with each other, whether we have literally said it or people have made it out, and that is why I think it is almost a moral obligation to deliver this autumn. That's what we've been appointed for. At least I'd like to give it a try to see if it works. Are you willing to make that attempt with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u870	I agree with half of your story, namely that we now need to look closely at where these bottlenecks are. That's exactly what we're gonna do. If we had just said "now a bonus and then shut up again and we go on," that would have failed. If we had said "we'd just look at those working conditions and we're gonna make sure you have a little more fun at work," that would've been flawed too. And if you had a committee that was going to investigate that one day and come up with a report, it would have been flawed, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u871	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u872	But with the combination, there is now a story I believe in, which is really hopeful. With this we can go with open eyes and a good story to the care staff and say: this is a path, a way to better working conditions, so that you do not tend to leave care. Madam President. I was talking about hope. It is good to see that the cabinet also makes other hopeful choices. It reduces the burden on citizens and the emergency package helps people to keep their jobs. That's hopeful. The cabinet is allocating 150 million for helping people with problematic debts. This is hopeful in a jungle in which debt has become a commodity, so that people only get deeper into misery. I would like to ask the Cabinet to set up a guarantee fund to pay off debts, and in doing so seek consultation with organizations like SchuldHelpMaatje. The cabinet also pays extra money, 150 million, for low-income families. It prolongs the increase in the budget for youth care, and that is hopeful for young people for whom life is sometimes difficult. I want to encourage the Cabinet to continue to take hopeful steps. Taking care of each other also means taking responsibility together. For example, for Northern Netherlands, a region with shrinkage, and with Groningen as a province with fault lines: literally cracks in houses. But also mentally something broke there. There we need mental help, quick recovery and reinforcement of their homes. But jobs are also needed. I would ask the cabinet to invest the funds it receives from the European Just Transition Fund in the North of the Netherlands, in employment, in the energy transition, so that it becomes a frontrunner in, for example, the development of green hydrogen. That would be hopeful. Together, responsibility is also needed when it comes to European migration policy. There are no easy answers. Solutions are being sought, including in Europe. And if an appeal is made at European level to us, in the Netherlands, to cooperate in the redistribution of refugees, I would ask the cabinet seriously to enter into the discussion about this, and then to make choices with a warm heart. Madam President. I told you, what really matters is taking care of each other. Secondly, what really matters is that we should not stare blindly at GDP growth, but should make us strong for the prosperity of society. During the presentation of the Growth Fund, I heard the Minister of Finance, Minister Hoekstra, say that investment from the fund should lead to GDP growth. I know that the objectives of the fund are much broader and richer, but I would like to make sure that this fund also contains a fixation on gross domestic product. In the book "Phantom Growing," which I think everyone has read now, the writers Noten and Heijne come up with a striking example of how this fixation can put us on the wrong track. The oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico was an ecological disaster, but it proved to be good for GDP. Closer to home: if I go to work less to take care of my mother, it's bad for GDP, but if I buy a pack of cigarettes, it's good for GDP. In other words, we have a strange way of measuring whether we're okay. If I run into someone on the street and ask how it's going, it'd be weird if they said, "€60,000." Because of the way we measure our prosperity, we often know the price but not always the value of something. I would like to ask the cabinet how we can also use the broad concept of prosperity, which we can always use better and better, in determining the value of the Growth Fund. I hope that the Minister of Finance has received that question. Maybe he was already over it in consultation with the Minister of Economic Affairs. That would be very good. I would also like to ask the cabinet what the lessons are when it comes to our dependence on the world market. The corona crisis showed us that for our mouth caps we depended on distant countries with a fickle preference policy. As far as the Christian Union Group is concerned, this is the time to make a broad analysis of what we as a country really need for our safety, our health and our food. Colleague Heerma has already spoken about it. Together, we are proposing the creation of a safety planning agency, precisely because we do not want to be dependent on a world market in which only the price counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u873	Let's not throw away the good by saying that you can push GDP up by doing weird things, so let's just throw it away. Mr Segers has indeed seen it well. I think everyone read the book. At least we got it sent. I told you I didn't have to, because I'd already listened. Saves a few more trees. The lesson of the book was not for me: growth is not interesting, economics is not interesting and you don't need prosperity. It was more that the macro-GDP figure is not enough, but that you also have to look at how that strikes people. In his manifesto, Mr Segers also writes that there has been a lot of public wealth generated by growth. I don't think we should watch how to spend money to make people feel happy very quickly. Because I still don't think the State is a lucky machine that's gonna make us happy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u874	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u875	That love comes more from people to themselves. I'll stop there before we get too far lost in metaphors like that. But money must be a means. If you are going to invest, the money must be the means, so that our children and grandchildren can earn money again. Not because that money is fantastic, but to make it benefit public values for all of us, but also people's incomes to make their own choices. I do not think we should throw GDP overboard, but we should also not settle for the idea that everything is good when GDP rises.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u876	I agree. You've read the manifesto, too. Thank you for that. I agree, but we will have to use it more broadly. I think we all have the experience with our election program that we turn in neatly to the CPB, which makes a pass-through. Then we're gonna beat each other up: that's champion employment and that's... The government debt is now in the balance, but that was also a factor. To be honest, we always came out of that employment transfer rather moderately. Why? Because, for example, a combination of care and work is a very important value for us: that families have the freedom to choose and combine them. However, you do not score with the parameters of the CPB. In that sense, you need to deal with GDP more relaxedly. It's nice when we grow economically, it's nice when there's development, nice when there's employment. Those are all wonderful things: a way to make money and develop your talents. But it can never be structuralally at the expense of the Earth. And it shouldn't be at the expense of our relationships. So there are other values. We now have these instruments, the broad concept of prosperity. I would like that to be much wider. That was my question when we think of the growth fund. The gentlemen in Box K are talking again, but at least I hope that they really look at that broad concept of prosperity and that not everything is put on GDP growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u877	I agree with Mr Segers. The problem is you always want to measure everything, but you can't measure a lot of things. Then the risk is that only counts what can be measured. The rest we add a little bit in between the margins: there is also something like luck, but you can't measure that. While, of course, that's much more important. I think it's a paradox. On the one hand, we say that we cannot justify everything and that people do most of the not rational things. However, we have the reflex to say that we need even more planning agencies who are trying to plan what has not yet been to be grasped in tables and predictions. The big risk that we have also noticed with other planning agencies is that agencies with smart people that we ask to do a prediction on the basis of things that have little historical data become very shaky. They can damage confidence, because we make decisions with a report in hand with a sticker from the planning agency, which states what is going to happen and that it is always disappointing. In that case, it is better to say that we cannot predict some things in advance, but we consider them all politically very important and we are going to stand by and do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u878	Congratulations. There are values that we do want to protect. I call it family, or friendship. At the same time, we can never measure it. We can never hold a government responsible for happiness, the degree of friendship or the degree of love. That's not the government's job at all. But a government shouldn't bother that. A government shouldn't cut that off. A government must offer room for that, so that there is indeed room for care for each other. So we need to talk out loud about what we think is valuable, except for economic growth and employment. We all think that is important, but there are other values. We're gonna have to explicate it. I would like to see this broad-based concept of prosperity used much more. Not in a mathematical way, with: we're going to turn that button and that makes us happier. But you can make an assessment of what that does with opportunities for young people in the Schilderswijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u879	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u880	What does that do with the gap between people with... The chairman's gonna be unheard of. With everything we care about. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u881	The government has to give people the space to find their own happiness. Welcome to the liberals, Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u882	I'm a Christian liberal. That's different from a gay economist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u883	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u884	What really matters is that we're going for flowering and not just for growth. What really matters is taking care of each other. What really matters is that we choose creation. In fact, I do not need to repeat it: the earth is getting warmer and in more and more places extremely dry or extremely wet. The rise in sea level is accelerating, which can also increasingly threaten our country. Every year an area of four times the Netherlands disappears to forest. That's 40 football fields a minute, net. If we're gonna be good stewards, we're gonna have to get on with the energy transition. We want to invest in clean energy and no longer be dependent on oil from the Middle East. We want to stop mining gas in Groningen and not depend on Russia. But those are abstractions, often far from our bed. In order to bring that energy transition closer to home, we need a national housing isolation programme, so that energy consumption is reduced and long-term costs are saved. We must bet on what is valuable and value creation. That's stewardship. Together with Mr Klaver, I would like to ask the cabinet to come up with a plan for isolation in the short term; a national, large-scale and accessible isolation plan. Madam President. Sooner or later, we look back, just like those Australians with Bronnie Ware on their bed. Then we'll figure out what we're sorry for and what we've failed in. Which was beautiful. What was worth it. For which we are grateful. This is the last budget of this cabinet. I'm sure we'll look back. This is the last General Political Discussion of many MPs. They're gonna look back on their political career in this house. We're about to be able to put the corona crisis behind us. Then we look back at this unprecedented time. One day we all come ourselves in the autumn of our lives and we will also personally take stock of the situation. I hope that in all those roles we have in the important choice we make and in the life we live, we remain true to our ideals and that we do the right thing. May our choices reflect our hope and not our fear. Let's choose what really matters. I wish the Cabinet and the Chamber the blessing of God. If you don't say that much, there's one more picture. I heard the Malieveld come by, which is regularly full of angry people. I thought Mr Jetten was referring to that. Just before the summer recess, it was filled with people praying, for all of you, for us. Even if you don't believe it, you know blessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u885	Thank you, Mr Segers. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party. Mrs Ouwehand has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u886	Thank you, Mr President. It seemed to go so well: the supermarkets were always full, we flew all over the world, our houses were full of stuff and we actually did a bit like the trees grew into heaven. We celebrated the budget deficit as if we were at a party that was paid for in full by others and where others would clean up our mess afterwards, and we fooled ourselves that the hangover wouldn't follow. We thought we were untouchable, but we're not. Mr. Chairman. Behind this façade we have a budget deficit of our natural resources which is so serious that all festive budgets that the cabinet could present are completely overshadowed. We are completely dependent on natural resources, and if you look at what the Earth can reproduce without damage every year, we'll make our own share somewhere in May. So for the rest of the year we live on the puff of future generations, but we also use more than the earth can recover from itself. Sooner or later, we'll pay the price for that. The worst thing is that the most vulnerable people in this world will take the first and the hardest blows of our irresponsible behaviour. Mr. Chairman. We've known about this for a while. We've known about this for a while. But looking away is easier. Somehow, by analogy with the twenties of the last century, you felt the roaring twenties, at the beginning of the twenties of this century, that something was really changing. The consciousness had grown. Young people went on the streets massively to demand action for their future, action against the climate crisis. We saw that the Prime Minister experienced the worst crisis of his career so far, and the cabinet finally had to admit that such a terrible deal with nature and the animals ultimately have a high price for the rest of the Netherlands. The rest of the room was also shaken up. All these years all this freedom for intensive livestock farming and now the whole of the Netherlands lay still because of a nitrogen crisis. It woke things up. The opposition to devastating free trade treaties had already grown so that CETA, the treaty with Canada, could actually only get through in this Chamber because the Christian Union wanted to stick to the coalition agreement. But the supporters of free trade agreements are only three: D66, the VVD and the CDA. They no longer have a majority in the Chamber and in the polls. The next free trade agreement, with countries such as Brazil, Mercosur, has therefore been wiped off the table under the leadership of the Animal Party. We could conclude that things are changing. The era of glamorous neoliberalism, of cold free trade agreements, the devastating free trade agreements, is over. The growing inconvenience with the consequences of one's own choice, or one's own knee fall if you like, for the dark neoliberal fairy tale that, if things go well with the boys at the top, everyone gets better, had also become felt here in this room at last year's General Political Reviews. The Labour Party regrets being so carried away. The CDA realises that the participatory society does not allow people to participate at all, but rather excludes them. Even the VVD admitted that the invisible hand of the free market put the common man in the cold, while the profits for the shareholders were bouncing against the plinths. The most beautiful moment of clarity was from Minister Wiebes. Faced with the latest emissions figures, which were again higher than in paper reality, he tried to pretend to the NIS that it would all work out and he was just on track to reduce CO emissions. But, the reporter opposed, economic growth has created additional emissions. Yes, that is indeed a setback, said Wiebes. That's right. Economic growth is not the solution. It's the problem. Those few climate measures that the greenest cabinet had ever taken were simply overtaken by the growth of polluting economic activities. Mr. Chairman. The change was already in the air. Historian Philipp Blom says: "For a historian this is a very exciting time to live in. We're seeing a break in a period of time. We live in a tilt time. It could fall one way or the other. We're stuck in an economic model that can't go well for much longer. Either it ends in a catastrophe with new pandemics, wars, no access to resources and you name it, or we go another way. But tilting works. That's for sure." Mr. Chairman. And then came corona. The Minister of Finance talked about it like a black swan. That is the proverbial economic phenomenon that you cannot always know what is going to happen. It could just come in and you'd have to deal with it. Mr. Chairman. It wasn't like that. Corona didn't just fall out of the sky or fly like a black swan. Scientists have been warning about it for years. Marion Koopmans' research group discovered that every year a new one is created. Between 2009 and 2015, there were six major outbreaks of animal diseases: Q fever, Schmallenberg virus, MERS, avian flu, Ebola and Zika. Zoonoses are not a new phenomenon and are not rare diseases. So they don't just show up, but they come directly from the way in which man deals with nature and animals. In fact, in recent decades it has been twice in Europe. Both times it was here, in the Netherlands. In 2003, the avian flu passed on to humans. More than 450 people got sick and a vet died. In 2007 the Q fever followed. The Dutch goat farming made thousands of people sick, nearly 100 people died and at least 500 people never get better. They are therefore also part of the group that is at extra risk with corona. For the second time in their lives, therefore, their health is threatened by a disease created by the way people deal with animals. Three quarters of these new infectious diseases that threaten human health are caused by our handling of animals. The Netherlands is on a ticking time bomb itself. The hub that the Netherlands is in the international animal trade, the lack of the positive list for animals, the unimaginable numbers of animals in the Dutch bio-industrie, ensures that the Netherlands is full of hosts who could transmit a virus. So we shouldn't pretend that a pandemic could happen to us. What we read in the Millions Note should prepare us for a next pandemic. However, we must do everything we can to prevent this pandemic. The House of Representatives has adopted a motion, but we do not yet read much of the awareness of the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Corona must have woken us up after all. Make every effort to protect the most important thing we have: our own health and our own living environment. Corona has taught us that returning to the old normal is the most stupid thing we can do. The most important things in our lives are contact with our loved ones, the health of our loved ones and a clean environment where we can breathe a little clean air. Mr. Chairman. In this respect, it is also very surprising that the cabinet does not make a choice for the fundamental protection of people's health. We saw in the corona crisis a Prime Minister who at some point became a bit angry about some people who are being a little bit feeble about the corona virus, who do not want to stick to the measures, who think it will run loose and that they cannot put other people in great danger. Yeah, how do we know about that? We know that from our own cabinet. I mention the warnings about the use of agricultural poison and what this means for the people living in those fields. I mention all these warnings about the poor air quality in the Netherlands and the health damage it causes. I mention all these warnings about the far too great role of the food industry, the tobacco industry and the drink industry, which makes it a food environment that actually makes people sick by definition. You have to do your best not to get sick in such an unhealthy food environment. The cabinet has always looked away from those warnings. If you're asking people to keep their distance, not hugging your own grandmother and not celebrating parties because other people's health is at stake, then I get that people say, "Where was my cabinet?" Then set a good example. This Millions note still does not make a fundamental choice for the preventive protection of people's health. Stop with the wood stinging. Stop with the biomass plants. Tie up the traffic. Choose truly fundamental for people's health. I thought that sugar tax was supposed to be here by now. And the targets in the prevention note have just been set by the lobby. It has to be and can be much better! Mr. Chairman. We did see hopeful signs of reflection today. A little behind the ears is being scratched and searched for the new role of the government. That's good, but I don't think we should talk about small debates and theoretical exchanges of views on this new role of the government. I think we should go back to Keynes, who said: the difficulty is not so much to develop new ideas, but to escape the old and old reflexes. Such a reflex is to always choose the interests of industry, the interests of the animal feed industry and intensive agriculture and the interests of aviation. You need to get rid of that. The most disarmed was what Mr Dijkhoff said. He said about the 20 billion growth fund: "Don't let us spend that money, because we don't trust ourselves with it. We are only thinking about our own short-term interests. So let a committee advise on that." That's not the answer. The CDA had the same kind of solution: "We all find it far too difficult. Let's throw it over the fence of the polder." No! We are paid here to make the choices needed to keep the earth alive and for a healthy future of the Dutch economy. This is an economy in which the health of people, the health of nature and the health of young people are paramount. Mr. Chairman. The climate crisis, it won't wait. We have experienced the warmest summer ever in the Netherlands. On Prince's Day, it was 31oC. And this is also possible, that it is even worse than the climate scientists had imagined and predicted. So it is important that we do not continue to discuss what the new role of the government should be. Then it's just that you do what you say. If you say "we're going to continue greening the tax system," then of course you can't continue to grant 4 or 5 billion subsidies to the fossil industry. That is even more than we are putting into our own climate policy! So you cannot continue to support aviation and continue to transfer more than 3 billion to KLM's account. Then it is time to say once and for all: that airport in Lelystad is off. Mr. Chairman. It's about the choices. The cabinet has to make choices. If you present a forest strategy and say that we're going to plant 37,000 new trees, it's absolutely beautiful, because every tree is one that we can use. But after all the billions that have gone to biomass power stations, the cabinet has to do what it says. But there is another billion in this budget for the production of trees that we cannot miss. So it's about doing what you say. We were therefore pleased that we heard the King on behalf of the government admit that there is a climate crisis, but then you must act accordingly. Mr. Chairman. When the coalition agreement was presented, the cabinet showed that it understood the problems caused by intensive livestock farming in the Netherlands. A €200 million restructuring of pig farming was announced. We agree that pig farming is far too large and should be cleaned up, but we immediately asked: how is it possible for taxpayers to pay for it? It has been said all these years that we have protested against new permits and new stables: don't worry, because it is simply being tested in accordance with the environmental and nature rules in force. If that were the case, why is there so much overload in Brabant now that 200 million should be earmarked for it? Now it turns out that the scheme that came into the coalition agreement was not intended at all to tackle the odour nuisance, but that it was rigged by PvdA Secretary of State Dijksma in 2015, because it was bad with Dutch pig farming at the time. It's always bad, and that's where the infamous term "the pig cycle" comes from. But what happened then was that the ministry of LNV asked the Rabobank to contribute to a reorganisation scheme, which ultimately made the Rabobank very rich. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows. The 200 million scheme has now become almost a billion, half for voluntary buy-out and the other half for new subsidies. In the meantime, this arrangement has not been adapted, but it does nothing to deal with the nitrogen problems. Where is the argument that this expenditure does not actually amount to what the analyses have to say: that it is the taxpayer's scam? Half a billion to buy-out that is not going to solve the problems, and another half a billion to buy out new subsidies, so that the future taxpayer will have to buy out new stables again. I am also looking at the Minister responsible for ensuring that there are enough houses in the Netherlands. Surely it cannot be that in April next year, two years after the decision of the Council of State in the nitrogen crisis, it becomes clear that we have wasted two precious years. This solution does nothing for the high housing shortage in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The solutions are there. If the cabinet now dares to opt for radical reform of livestock farming, 10% of agricultural land will be released. We can make nature from that, we can plant trees, and there will be room for the construction of the houses that are so badly needed. Apart from the fact that the landlord levy has to be removed, these are the choices that the cabinet has to make if it believes that young people also enjoy a home and a future. Mr. Chairman. We were also pleased to hear the King acknowledge that there is painful racism and discrimination in the Netherlands. That is also what we have seen in the past year. People have gone out into the streets to express their years of grief and anger about it. Please act like that. It is good to begin with the recognition by the words of the king. To speak with James Baldwin: nothing can be changed until it is faced. It is therefore a nice and necessary first step, but the next steps must of course follow. So we encourage the cabinet in that. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the 5 billion that the cabinet will give to solve the nitrogen problem in the future. Part of it goes to the buy-out of companies, part to new subsidies, and part to nature recovery. But the budget for nature recovery is still less than the natural budget was before Secretary of State Bleker took office and cut 70%. That's not gonna get you there. Just in the corona time we have seen that people crave a little green to be able to recreate. So make every effort to connect the natural areas and make sure that the budgets for nature in and around the city that have been cut off, return as soon as possible. If people have to be locked up and can't go outside, to the café or the gym, for a while walking in the park can be of vital importance, we have seen. So we don't understand why the cabinet didn't make that choice. Mr. Chairman. Aviation will have to shrink. There too, the cabinet continues to cling to two thoughts. On the one hand, we see that the cabinet does not find the opening of Lelystad Airport and the growth of Schiphol completely fit next year. But we know it's not gonna happen again after that, right? If we know that Schiphol needs to shrink to 300,000 flights a year to stay within the limits of the climate targets, why not make that choice now? Why are you still taking the extra billions to aviation? Mr. Chairman. We will also have to say goodbye to the aggressive trade policy. We heard the King about the importance of a multilateral world order. It is very good to work together in Europe, but Europe has huge butter on its head. However, for the coming period, another 365 billion will be available for agricultural subsidies, while at the same time saying: we have agreed on nature objectives. This is subsidising nature destruction! The European Commission is continuing with these devastating trade deals. The cabinet has to say, "We're gonna stop doing that." The European Commission is also whistling back Member States which, for example, want to curb agricultural poison. So yes, the European Commission can present climate plans, but the cabinet will also have to say: we are going to solve this climate crisis, and we are going to work together in a European context; that is all very nice, but not when you say one thing and do the other. Choose to keep the earth alive. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet calls on people to make every effort to prevent the spread of corona. Then the Party for the Animals expects the Cabinet to do the same. Only together will we get corona underneath. This means that the cabinet must also invest in health. Everyone does something for the climate, while the cabinet says: if you check your tire pressure for a moment, we give billions to polluting industries. That way, you're undermining your own climate policy. You're undermining people's confidence in government policy. For these reasons, we will for the time being provide this budget with a 'no'. After the budgetary discussions, we will see if that will change into a 'yes'. However, as long as the Millions Note controls a 3°C global warming and not the 1.5°C that we have to pursue with each other, the Party cannot support the Millions Note for the Animals. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u887	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP. What are you taking, Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u888	It's not a hat box, as I heard on the way. But what it is, it's about two-thirds of my story. Then you'll know about how far I'm at. Madam President. We all come by often, but I don't know how it goes down you usually pass it carelessly. I am referring to that large statue of William of Orange, which has been on the Square since 1848, near the entrance Square. Have you ever looked at it quietly? Honestly, I didn't actually do it until recently. Strangely enough, it was because there was a lot to do about statues and enlightened people were busy to criticize all kinds of statues or even bring them down. They had discovered that those people from the past were not saints, but children of their time. That's why they found the statues of those once good people wrong now. So that's how I got to that statue here on the Square. There's actually a lot to see on that statue, but I'd like to talk about just one small part of that monumental statue today.It's really very big statue of Willem van Oranje on the Square. On the pedestal, right on the side of the entrance Square, I found an image of a bird.It turns out to be an ice bird flying over a turbulent sea. It is very special that the nest with youngsters gently swells on the waves. Can you imagine? If that is not the case, I would like to refer you to my Twitter, Facebook or Instagram, because there the image is visible if it is good from now on. Yeah, you gotta see it a little bit. There is also a descriptor, a text surrounding it, written. There was a profound Latin spell: saevis tranquillus in undis. Honestly, I had no idea what that means. Thierry Baudet was just out of the neighborhood, so I couldn't ask him either. I saw Ronald van Raak walking, but yes, he was busy talking, I think about the grave of Johan van Oldenbarnevelt. So you don't want to disturb him. But vaguely I remembered that I had seen a book with the same title in a bookcase of a good friend. I snorted that book.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u889	It's tranqúillus. It's a q, not an o.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u890	I checked with two teachers of classical languages and they said: tránquillus. So I'm gonna hold it there, Mr. Baudet. So I snorted that book in that good friend's bookcase. It appears to be an explanation of the principle programme of the ARP, the Anti-Revolutionary Party, incorporated into the CDA in 1980. A thick book of nearly 600 pages from 1934 by the well-known Hendrikus Colijn, Prime Minister of five cabinets in the 1920s and 1930s. "That he still had time for that!', I see the Prime Minister thinking. He is indeed talking about the fact that it was quite a job to find the time before that. But he was also kind enough to give a translation of that Latin term, and it means: calm in the midst of grim waves. Icebird and spell seem to have a long history. We also see it on the grave monument of the Orange in the Nieuwe Kerk in Delft. It was one of Willem van Oranje's mottos to emphasize his calm determination in the turmoil of his time, the Eighty Years' War. At the request of Charlotte de Bourbon, wife of the prince, a special badge was struck in 1577 with the prince on one side and the spell with the icebird on the other. That image goes back to the Greek myth that the icebird built its nest above the waves and thereby defyed the high waves. With that, the beautiful animal was a symbol of loyalty and intransigence. If I saw it right, I saw Minister De Jonge smiling just significantly when I was talking about that book, about those 600 pages of Colijn, like, "See? Sometimes you need a few words to make something clear." But honor the future, he himself placed on Twitter nine years ago a picture of a wallcloth with the same text, "saevis tranquilus in undis," quietly in the midst of the turbulent births. In that tweet Minister De Jonge made the application as well: fits well with the budgetary process. That brings me right to the political application. Indeed, even now the motto of the Father of the Fatherland is an appropriate motto: quietly amidst the turbulent births. Keep calm and calm, but at the same time be alert and vigilant, sail a steady course. And indeed, the waves of the corona crisis are violent. A minuscule virus that wipes out the whole world. Corona makes us realize that we people don't control everything. It's a compelling warning against human hubris. The waves have become less high in our country, but the storm is not over yet. Many people are in mourning because they saw loved ones disappear and many healthcare workers still come to terms with everything that has happened. They deserve generous and generous support, including financial support. Corona policy requires caution, accuracy. Both doing too little and doing too much can cause great damage. Of course, this corona wave was unprecedented, but public intervention against infectious diseases is of course not new. Here too, history can be a teacher. I have read in that just mentioned by Prime Minister Colijn what he wrote about it in his explanatory statement on the anti-revolutionary programme. That was actually very interesting. There was an important warning in it: "Ed, precisely because of the importance of hygiene with regard to infectious diseases, there is a danger of the hypertrophy of public care at the expense of individuals and families, at the expense of society's task." That danger signals Colijn. And he added: "This danger gained too much severity according to state-absolutist views and the authority with which science recommended preventive measures to prevent contamination." So a view of what exactly the state should do and what belongs to society, and the authority of science, which put forward all kinds of preventive measures, made that danger even more serious. I thought that was a rough analysis. There's only one word of Latin: hypertrophy. I don't know if it was the simple anti-revolutionary readers for which this book was meant to be equally clear. I have only checked it myself: hypertrophy is a medical term for a dangerous swelling, an abnormal increase in the size and weight of an organ. I'm curious. If Colijn said so many years ago that it is a bit of a risk in dealing with infectious diseases that you are actually putting it too much with the State, that there is a risk of hypertrophy, that with all the good intentions and good efforts you are going through there, the Prime Minister also sees this danger in the fight against the coronavirus? Anyway, I think this is an important warning sign that we can take with us: watch out for hypertrophy. Mr. Chairman. One more sentence from the old ARP principle programme on the treatment of infectious diseases, because I honestly thought that there was one more thing in it and I would like to mention it. For of course there is also an indication that there is an important task for the government, but an important reservation is added immediately: "subject to the free disposal of each one over his own body and his own conscience." Well, there's another word in Latin: consciency. That's "conscience." So there's no sense of conscience. No vaccinations. Can we hold the government to that, too, I ask. And that statue of William of Orange. He made an extensive speech in the Council of State in 1564 in which he said: "I cannot approve that princes rule the consciences of their subjects." I would say: let that also be a guideline and remain. Madam President. The corona crisis not only affects people in their physical health or well-being. It hits people in their wallet, too. Think of people who lie awake about whether their company is going to make it or they're going to have a hard time about their jobs. I would also like to say here today that it is good and important that support measures were put in place to survive the waves. The cabinet did a good job in this. I would like to draw attention to another specific group: students who are in trouble because of the loss of income from side jobs. The shortcomings of the current loan system are feeling particularly painful here. Our proposal is to give students from middle-income families a real allowance in the cost of study instead of giving them a loan. At the same time, this is also a well-deserved support for the accompanying parents. Certainly not least the single-earners among them, who still have to pay four, five or six times as much tax on the same family income. I would like to comment on this point. Mr. Chairman. Public finances are in severe weather as a result of the corona crisis. The Council of State said yesterday in a comment: "The ship of state floats on turbulent births. Anchors for political choices are more difficult to formulate than ever before, and at the same time more necessary than ever." You're right. We can thankfully say that precisely the previous caution, which has always been the focus of the SGP, now makes it possible to give generous support in crisis time. The way back to caution is a tricky one. Too easy a virtue is made of the need. When do we return to the old financial normal and how do we prevent investment in, for example, Defence, as in previous crises? Madam President. Waves haven't just come from the corona virus lately. There were also grim waves of violence and crime. It was a restless summer in many cities and municipalities. A calm but determined approach is also needed in the fight against crime. One question here is to what extent there is no integration problem behind the unrest in the major cities. If there is an over-representation of, for example, young people of Moroccan or Antillean origin, this should not be camouflaged, but should be seen fairly. Then you can deal with the problems in a targeted way. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? A fundamental threat to security in our country is drug-related crime. Unfortunately, the Netherlands is now known as narcoland. It has been said in great words that this cannot be tolerated. Very good. But are we really on course now? Isn't it high time to bring up the penalties for drug crime? Madam President. On the world's ocean, we see a lot of torrential waves. A striking glimmer of light in a turbulent Middle East was the peace that Israel and the United Arab Emirates and recently Israel and Bahrain concluded. Hopefully this will be followed. In the Human Rights Council, of which the Netherlands is now a member, the Netherlands would take action to remove the permanent item on the agenda in order to take the measure of Israel. Did you do that yet? Is it not time to seek the peaceful dialogue and cooperation with Israel in the Association Council? Anti-Semitism continues to be very worrying, which is constantly growing up close to home and worldwide. It's a dangerous monster. For years we've been talking about this, about more lick-on-piece and better registration. Have any steps been taken on this yet? The commemoration of 75 years of freedom has once again put our noses on the facts in the sense that horrors of the past have not just disappeared with a magic wand. Freedom is a gift but also an assignment. Madam President. The icebird was allowed by the historian Huizinga to become a new national symbol. At least the icebird got the 1997 ten gold bill. Unfortunately, the arrival of the euro put an end to this. But it remains an appealing image: rest in the midst of unrest. That little icebird is also a very nice animal. I'm not saying that because the colors orange and blue are just like the colors of the SGP. It's just a beautiful creature. Mr President, this is the unveiling I promised. I brought one. I know you don't like flapping the room, so it's a quiet specimen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u891	I'm curious. It's pretty, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u892	It's pretty, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u893	For all of us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u894	No, I'm afraid I can only give away one, but I think you're satisfied with the destination of this icebird. It is indeed nice to give them a little unexpected gift tonight, but I will get to that in a moment. Let's get this over with. It's nice to see how this icebird keeps coming back in Dutch Dutch history. If I do, Queen Wilhelmina had a figurine of an ice bird on her desk. And the cover of her memoirs, lonely but not alone, shows that she cherished the icebird. And in his speech at the inauguration, King Willem-Alexander referred to that spell again, for he praised his mother and said: you maintained a stable and pure course in a long tradition, quietly, in the midst of the turbulent births. Madam President. That is a key question, also for today's debate: what is the course of the Dutch ship of State? Once I saw a boat whose mate shouted: we are on course! But in fact he was driven in one direction by the great waves of large boats and the prevailing wind. What exactly is the status of this Dutch course? I also noticed in the years to come that we hear very often on many issues such as the commitment in Europe, climate policy, asylum policy, the direction of our agriculture: we can only go one way, because the EU rules or UN conventions force us to do so. But our concern is that that undermines the acceptance of the chosen course among the population. It's suffocating our freedom. For example, we saw this unrest again at the demonstrations of farmers. My appeal is therefore: let the Netherlands promote more national political space, space for its own course. This is true of other countries in the European context, but it is equally true of large companies, for example. It can't be that Facebook or Twitter determines what we may or may not put as opinions on the internet? Freedom rights apply not only to citizens, but also to powerful companies. My question is therefore also: does the cabinet want to work for more digital sovereignty? Digitally, we are running more and more risks. A successful break-in to the computer system can hit a company or institution hard. The fight against this is now being fragmented. Does the cabinet want to make more work of a digital general or a common bundling of forces in which our digital security is better protected? Madam President. What course do we follow? A fixed course and a good direction are to follow the deep conviction of the SGP in following the compass of the word of God, His commandments and promises, even if that goes against the flow. I am thinking here of the values of protecting vulnerable lives, both in the beginning and in the evening of life. The abortion and euthanasia laws undermine this. We have already indicated and will come back to this in this House that there is a need for a fundamental change of course. In the midst of the grim waves that occupy our day in, day out, there is also need for rest. That is why good family policy is so important; investing in a safe haven. But I'm also thinking about the rest day. How will we be tranquillus without taking the time to catch our breath? It was not by chance that the Liberal Old, one of the founders of the VVD, quoted the words "saevis tranquillus in undis" in the Chamber in the treatment of the Sunday Law of 1953. What struck me and others in the past few months was that many people suddenly experienced more peace. No full calendars and hectic. It was actually for many people also a sabbatical experience, of keeping it open. A Jewish rabbi once said very nicely that the Sabbath is the most precious gift that mankind has received from the treasury of God, the fight against the oblivion. What is our freedom worth if there is no peace to live that freedom? I would therefore like the cabinet to work on what I would like to call a'spiritual climate policy'. It pays to bet more on maintaining Sunday as a common rest day. This does not bear on the tendency for shopkeepers to be forced to open the doors on Sundays. I know that legislation is being prepared, but our call is: come up with more than is happening now. Mr President, I will conclude. Keep your peace in difficult times. There is also an element of surrender: do your best, but dare to give it out of your hands. It gives you rest instead of cramping. On the badge I mentioned earlier, which was made by Charlotte de Bourbon, there is also a sun depicted with an arm that symbolizes Christ. There is a sun shining over a restless sea with the letters CHRS. They stand for Christ. Indeed, we find real deep rest by looking higher up, to Him, who once, while His followers looked fearfully at the waves, calmed the storm at sea. The rudder is safe in His hands. Finally, this. My contribution began with the icebird as a symbol of peace when it storms at sea. I want to end up with that, too. Also in the Lower House, here in this room, the seas sometimes go high. I have seen that again today: big words, harsh accusations, sharp tongues and fierce confrontations. And in the midst of these turbulent political births, there are always people who, fortunately, continue to do their work quietly and irresistibly and help us to keep the peace in the background. I'm talking about our MPs. It is they, Madam President, who, under your guidance, keep the calm. And to thank them for that, I would like to hand over this icebird to them for a place in the Bodenkamer or at the Bodenstation. Think of it as a token of appreciation for them and for all the other staff behind the scenes who contribute to our parliamentary democracy, to rest in the midst of the turbulent waves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u895	That's very nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u896	That's a very nice appreciation, Mr. Van der Staaij. They really deserve that. Thank you, I assume on behalf of the entire Chamber. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's nice how colleague Van der Staaij can captivate the audience. For I saw almost all the rulers with open mouth listening to the beautiful story that he cast off. Mr. Chairman. We started this debate fiercely. We saw that Mr Wilders stood up to almost all the group chairmen. And of course there was the usual message: his aversion to Muslims and Moroccan Dutch. I can't make it any more fun for him, but in the next 25 minutes he will have to listen a bit to a Moroccan Dutchman, a Muslim. Or maybe I don't want to make it any more fun. Mr. Chairman. Words matter. There are some of those words that take hold. Words that come in hard, words that can be found on the chin. This morning it happened again 400,000 Moroccan Dutch and 1 million Muslims. They are a bit used to it, because for fifteen years these groups have been put away by Wilders as "danger," as "a plague," as second-class citizens, as a sort of Untermenschen. I sincerely wonder if Wilders has any empathy to see what his words have for effect. Because those words resound in schools, at work, in the streets and in public transport. The effect is disastrous for our country, for our inhabitants and for Khalid in the fifth grade of primary school, who asks his parents if he can stay in the Netherlands if Wilders ever becomes the boss. It is also a question of what Wilders will do with all those judges and all those OM people working hard that day in, day out. It is also forsaken for Samira, who has worked her teeth and now finally has her master's degree. She actually wants to go abroad, because she is tired of the political climate in the Netherlands with Wilders and Baudet. Our society will miss its talent. Mr. Chairman. I have received a lot of e-mails today, from people who are affected by the words of Wilders, from people who try to contribute to the Netherlands day in, day out and who also love this country very much. Allow me to read one. I got it almost immediately after Mr Wilders' tirade. I quote: "I am a civil servant and I wear a headscarf. I am doing an enormous amount of work as a coordinator to do my job, because I want to be of value to the public sector. In the background the TV is on to listen to the General Reviews. Tears in my eyes and abdominal pain since Wilders started talking. Painful, especially when he said he doesn't want head wipes in the streets. What did I do to him? Many evildoers now see a free pass in the words of Wilders. It makes me despondent. My children were born in the Age of Wilders, they don't know anything else. I just don't know how to explain this to them. When will it stop?" Wilders' words also affect me as a Moroccan Dutchman, but at least I can defend myself. Every time I hear Wilders talking, I know why I'm standing here. I do it for the people who are in the tribulation of the inflammatory words of Wilders. I would like to promise everyone that I, that DENK, will always stand up to these racist and discriminatory words. There is already a lot of hatred, racism and discrimination in our society. In the Throne speech it was so striking: it is even a threat to our rule of law when people are judged by their last name, colour or religion. In this respect, we are in a deep racism crisis. Honesty requires me to say that I expected more from our Prime Minister in the fight against racism and discrimination. He's left it too far behind and hasn't taken sufficient measures. Why do Dutch people with a migration background still have 40% less chance of being invited to a job interview? Why do Dutch people with a migration background still have to apply five times more often for an internship? Why do Dutch people with a migration background still less often have their own home, have €170,000 less equity, work almost twice as often with an uncertain flex contract and earn €8,000 less a year? Origin and skin color determine how much chance you have at a job, a good income and a home. We take stock after ten years of Rutte and we haven't made much progress. He didn't do enough about it. He yelled, "Mo, fight you in." He shifted the problem to society, called out that he hates multicultural society and even threw oil on the fire with statements as "pleasure" and, what has personally hurt me, "the Islamic prayer call is a terrible jingle." You don't say that about religion, do you? Rutte is not the prime minister of all the Dutch. He is not a leader who takes the lead in making the Netherlands fairer and fairer. Let's take a look close to home. How many people with a non-migrant origin are on the boards of our institutions? From the Economic and Social Council? The Central Planning Office? The Supreme Court? The Council of State? The General Court? I didn't do it. I didn't do it. I didn't do it. Zero! I see Mr Jetten making the gesture for zero. Zero people with a migrant arrival in important institutions! How can we expect to create policies in which all Dutch people recognise themselves? And what, Rutte, with your "in this country you can become anything"? What we need is a breakthrough against racism and discrimination. For years, people have been held back in their development, disadvantaged by failing policies. Then they get the label that they are not integrated. While Dutch people with a migration background are doing better and better in every respect, every time they get that label "you're not part of it, you're not good enough." Being reduced to your headscarf, to your skin color. It is still true that in this country not all Dutch people can be themselves, that they have to turn in a piece of their identity to be tolerated. That's what makes you despondent. These people expect a government to do something about it, but this government has even swept away its own racism in the Tax Administration. We see a prime minister who doesn't want to do anything more than talk about the shape of the Catshuis. Like you're gonna be on a 20-minute consult with your manager! Again, in this budget, we do not see any extra money to combat discrimination. Nothing! Mr. Chairman. I'm holding my heart. The corona crisis will only increase discrimination. DENK wants a Netherlands in which the continuous distinction based on skin colour, origin and religion stops. People need to be aware of what discrimination does to others. I want a country in which we reserve extra money and commitment to ensure that skin color no longer determines how many opportunities you have, in which Islam is no longer approached as a hostile religion, but is seen as an enrichment of Dutch culture. A country in which we no longer talk about Dutch in terms of integration, but just approach them as other people, in which we do not tolerate people but accept them. It is time for a prime minister with the important task of eliminating racism and discrimination. We heard it yesterday in the sermon on the throne. "Listen to each other" indicated the government in the Throne speech as a solution to racism. As far as DENK is concerned, we are not only going to listen, but we are finally going to do something. Not words, but deeds. More awareness, improved enforcement and more means of reporting, heavier and different penalties. It is a long road, but together we get discrimination under control in the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to corona. These are extraordinary and difficult times. I look back with melancholy at the time when we as social beings could still have carefree contact with each other. Something as simple as a hug, on Sundays visiting grandmother's, having a drink with friends, visiting a wedding or a birthday party, saying goodbye to a deceased family member. Corona has taken from us as people, as social beings, a piece of our humanity. You'll never get used to it. Pictures of the overcrowded hospitals, of panic and fear. I cycled from the station to home myself along the nursing home Kulenburg in my own town of Culemborg. I saw a MEWP from a rental company in front of the building with a group of people around it. I didn't understand what was going on, but upstairs there were two people who waved and made contact through the glass with, I suspect, a relative. I was surprised. I never thought this was the only way to convey attention and love to our elders. Mr. Chairman. Corona policy isn't right. We're not getting enough communication. There is too much uncertainty about testing, insufficient capacity, a rattling app and an unclear emergency law. Corona policy is as inimitable as a speech by Baudet after eleven o'clock in the morning. The Prime Minister must answer tomorrow for his failing corona policy, for contagion rates rising, for a non-compliance with the test policy, for all the broken promises about source and contact research, but also for the unrest with the emergency law and the app. Noord-Holland and Zuid-Holland now receive code red from the Belgian government and regional measures are on their way to Rotterdam. What can the Prime Minister say about that tomorrow? That means quite simply that if I go to Germany tomorrow I will not do that, because tomorrow we will have to debate I will have to quarantine and have to test obligatory, at least in parts of Germany. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis was primarily a health crisis, then an economic crisis and now more and more a well-being crisis. Unemployment has doubled in a short time. The economy has shrunk historically. I remember that we had occasional discussions with the Minister of Finance on very different subjects. We talked a lot about the Brexit. That was important back then. It's just not anymore: we're not even talking about it anymore. We talked about the trade war between Trump and China: we're not talking about it anymore. Everything is relative. We also see that people can't make ends meet. They depend on the help of others. Many feel lonely and pessimistic. I've seen young people who are freshmen. When I ask them what it's like to be a student, they say, "Don't bother." It's just not funny! Sit home for four days and meet for one day. They just want to see others, meet others, interact. As a society, the corona crisis has pushed us firmly with the noses on the facts. Perhaps the most important lesson is that, as a society, we need a strong and social welfare state, so that we can cope with setbacks and direct how to do things differently. The corona crisis has also taught us that our public sector, the safety net for everyone, is under pressure after ten years of Rutte. We see the shortage of care. We didn't see enough beds in intensive care, the massive workload for nurses and doctors who walked on their gums to take care of corona patients. We also saw hospitals go bankrupt in the past. We're seeing shortages with the police right now. The much-needed district agent is disappearing and has no time to do what he is appointed to do, namely to be cement between the residents. We see the bizarre workload in education. I have so much respect for all those teachers. A lot of parents I talk to say after having the kids at home for a week: it's a tough job, I'm actually happy if I can get them out again. We also see teachers who don't have time to pay attention to students. We see the performance pressure in education, which reduces students to test results. After ten years of Rutte, we can also conclude that the public services, care, education and the police are not in good shape. Years of savings and years of market thinking. As far as DENK is concerned, the corona crisis makes us realize that the deterioration of public services is no longer possible. Investment is needed in teachers, in good education, in good care, in structural increases in the salary of care workers, in district agents, and in all the other facilities that have been put under pressure after ten years of Rutte. The corona crisis also teaches us that we need to share prosperity and scarce resources more fairly in our society. While we are sitting here debating with each other, sometimes catching flies and making a joke from time to time, more and more Dutch people feel the terrible pain of the crisis at home. A million Dutch people are worried because they are sick and cannot pay the care premium and their own risk. Almost 2 million Dutch people can't make ends meet. Many of them have to report to the food bank tomorrow because they have nothing to eat. Hundreds of thousands of children live in poverty, even before the corona crisis. Unacceptable. Older people are kept artificially poor by this cabinet. Their disposable income has decreased by 20% over the last seven years. In 2020 there will be a further reduction in the pension for many. That is painful and unacceptable for a country with so much money. The reality is that, after ten years, we have hardly made any progress in distributing wealth more fairly in our country. Yesterday there was someone on the radio who worked at the food bank. He said the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer. That is the result of political choices. Choices to pass the care costs on to the Dutch. The care premium has increased by €400 since 2013, under Rutte. The own risk has increased by €200 since 2010. Every year it went up again. It's choices to confront people every year with hundreds of euro's rent increase. It is also a choice to increase the tax on groceries, which means that people are caught when they go to the grocery store for food. It is also a choice to introduce the debt system, which means that students have to tap into DUO every month for years after their studies. Choices to increase the energy bill year in, year out. And also choices to make the labour market more flexible, which means that people are increasingly caught in underpaid and uncertain flex contracts. In ten years Rutte has made the country more unjust. He's made the dividing lines harder. He has increased the difference between people with no security in the labour market. The corona crisis is only gonna make that worse. How do we get out of the crisis more justly? And who looks back at the most vulnerable? Mr. Chairman. It is antisocial that in the Netherlands multinationals under the guise of a ruling don't pay by sneaky deals with the government, while people in our country line up for food banks. Is it fair for this cabinet, in crisis time, to ensure that someone with a high income is making more progress in purchasing power than a single parent with a low income? Is it fair for large companies to receive 2 billion in relief, while smallzzp'ers will have to turn in €800 next year? Mr. Chairman. DENK wants a big investment in schemes that benefit the most people they need: higher care allowance, higher rent allowance, a bonus for people in the assistance and a reduction in the tax on fruit and vegetables. DENK also says no to the phasing out and tightening up of the corona support measures, causing people to lose their jobs and entrepreneurs to fall over. Right now. We need to protect all those entrepreneurs in the hospitality industry, taxi drivers and employees. It is time for us to offer generous help and concrete guarantees that will preserve people's jobs. We're gonna have to keep the fire protection. Do not reduce that support, but increase it until there is a vaccine. Mr. Chairman. We find it unacceptable that the cabinet, at a time when entrepreneurs such as taxi drivers are hit hard, takes €800 from these entrepreneurs and every year thereafter €250. Why not cut the tax breaks for Shell or rich expats? As far as DENK is concerned, we are going to help small entrepreneurs more rather than less. It is precisely now that we need to share prosperity more fairly. DENK denounces the passive and lame attitude of this cabinet towards the rents. Everyone saw that the rents have been rising for years and that the housing shortages are now dramatic. Record after record is broken with rent increases. People have lost more and more of their living expenses. This cabinet sits too back and lets speculators and crooked landlords push up the rents. The government's got tenants coughing up billions of rent increases, and now they're gonna come up with a big $200 million tip. Why not just freeze those rents so tenants get room in their wallets? Give those tenants air! Mr President, I come to a conclusion. The corona crisis teaches us that it is important that everyone has equal opportunities to develop. A crisis hits people who get less opportunities harder. Over the last ten years, we have seen sand in the motor of equal opportunities in education. The parents' wallet still matters how many chances someone gets. Those delays are magnified and deepened by corona. How are we going to ensure that the EUR 500 million of incidental resources actually reach the students who need it? How do we ensure that all those pupils in practical education in particular are not delayed because they cannot find an internship? I'm asked almost every day if I know another internship for someone. People simply can't go on in... often.. an MBO training. Is the government prepared to provide a temporary internship guarantee for students who are excluded by corona? But shouldn't there be more money in education, above all? Is it not unacceptable that we spend less and less of our money on education in the coming years? Wouldn't it be good to get rid of early selection moments in education, so we don't put students in booths too quickly? Mr. Chairman. Rutte himself did about eight years of his studies in History. The current generation of students is cut off by the enormous pressure of performance. Because of the debt system, there is no room or time to develop yourself or make a mistake once. This means that you have to start with a millstone of €30,000 after your studies. DENK says: let's return the scholarship and give students air again. There are other parties that have suggested this. Get rid of the constant pressure to perform. Get rid of that depressive feeling of never being able to satisfy. Stop burning up many students and young people before they get their first job. Mr. Chairman. Three lessons from the corona crisis. The public sector is not in good shape. Prosperity is unfairly distributed and the odds are too great. The racism crisis continues. But yeah, he's been there ten years, Rutte, on the throne. Then you ask yourself, how does he do that? That really has to do with Rutte's immense talent for picking up other parties, throwing them in front of the bus and using them to perpetuate his own power. Lodewijk Asscher and Segers and Kaag know all about that. But fortunately, on March 17th there is something to choose. On 17 March 2021, we can break with that old policy, choose the fair distribution of prosperity, choose just international politics, choose the fight against racism and discrimination and choose the just sharing of the burden of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u898	Thank you. Then I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u899	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The other day I was approached in the supermarket by an older gentleman. We got into a conversation and he asked me an intrusive question. It hit me really deep. If I talk about it now, I'm gonna get goosebumps again. Actually, it was a question you don't want to hear, but it's very appropriate to this time of year. He asked: can we still be here, Mrs Van Brenk? Let that question also get through to this Chamber. Can we still be here? Mr. Chairman. People are worried about the tone of the debate. Corona destroys more than you love: the pieces that we, the elderly, read about ourselves in the newspaper, the columns in which we are called dry wood, discussions about code black, is there still room in the hospitals when you are very old? Of course, I tried to reassure this gentleman and all the other elderly people who are worried about us, but people are losing hope. They can't see it, they can't hear it, and they can't feel it. It scares them and makes them sad. That's why I want to know about this cabinet: what does the Prime Minister say to this gentleman if he gets that question? Can the elders still be here? Is this cabinet there for them? And what do you do for them? 50-plus everyone wants to be. As a party, we focus on this phase of life. We are not there for one generation, as is sometimes said, because we all get wrinkles. We are no longer being falsified by construction workers and we all become more careful when there is danger. At some point we are no longer among the primary target groups of advertisers, except at the spectacle shop and the home care shop. In addition, we have to deal with trendy job vacancies that try to prevent older people from applying. In a pandemic, you run the risk of being locked up without a visitation right. We'll never let that happen again. 50PLUS has made an amendment and submitted it together with the SGP, which is in the process of dealing with the Corona Emergency Act: a visitation right for family members. We rely on broad support. You never want this degrading loneliness again. Then you can read in the newspaper that parties who want to cut down on their pensions also work on a law-completed life. I guarantee you that the text of those kind of articles will come in quite differently once you've passed the 50 or the 60. Well, if I'm still here, it's not a big deal, it's something you're gonna think about. The corona crisis is a global problem whose consequences we will still feel in the distant future. But we have to do it together. That was the motto. But the cracks in society become visible after a six months of corona crisis. We have to be very careful about that. Sowing division is the last thing we can use. For example, I watched Mrs Kaag's advertising film, in which she kindly calls for connection. But I also looked at her performance at Buitenhof, a day later, in which she firmly excludes a quarter of the Netherlands from cooperation. It is, of course, important to stand up against discrimination and for connection. But at 50PLUS we find that this can never start with excluding large groups of people who think differently. We don't. If we can stop the pension agreement, we will not exclude cooperation with any party. Yes, Chairman, pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u900	Before you proceed, Mr Baudet has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u901	I just wanted to say that I really liked the opening. I fully agree with the values you have expressed. You can count on the Forum for Democracy in the search for the realization of your ideals. I feel very related to it. I want to thank you for your lovely words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u902	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u903	I have a question. Of course, I do not want to ask my question until I have expressly congratulated you on your birthday. This one's still 55 minutes away. I have the next question. You just mentioned the pension agreement, which you're going to oppose and resist. I don't know 50PLUS any other way. But how does this work if on 3 October a different list leader is chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u904	Ah! I expected this from other parties, but to be honest, I think it's great. I am, of course, counting on the support to fall on my side. There are five others. I would also like to mention that we have four women in the race. I don't think any other party is gonna do that to us. I think there's more chance of that than of the two men, so no other party does that to us either. I think that is where you come from mostly: whose bread one eats, one speaks one's language. So we simply need to run the party programme of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u905	That is precisely what I am concerned about, because the party programme for the upcoming elections has not yet been adopted by 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u906	It is about general political considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u907	Yeah, but the people at home really want to know if they can count on that party. I believe that Mrs Van Brenk and I are on the same side as regards the interests of the elderly and defending a good pension. We would like to maintain the existing pension and perhaps improve on parts. But we are not in favour of a new pension system. Precisely because the election programme is not yet ready, I am afraid this is in good hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u908	I can assure Mr Krol that there is no other party where it is as well in control as at 50PLUS. You won't find a harder fight for pensions here. Neither do you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u909	Mr. Krol, well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u910	I'm not gonna say anything about myself. That's up to the voters, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u911	That sounds like a good ending to me. Mr. Chairman. You know, 50PLUS, so we need to talk about pensions. Actually, we all started saving for a supplementary pension not so long ago. Today, the average pension is €600 to €800 gross. Sometimes it seems as if very large pension payments have been made, but that is not the case. That's gonna be tax-free. The pension allowance also reduces the right to rent and care allowance. Then that's not fat. These are pensions of net €500 or €600. These have not been compensated for price increases for 12 years. So are we talking about wealthy baby boomers with unrealistic expectations? No, it's about a mass of millions of pensioners who don't have a big pension at all. They're happy when they can make ends meet. They live in thrift, so that they can give their grandchildren a present on birthdays and with sintering classrooms. I'm not standing here with a million dollars worth of savings in the bank. Many pensioners live in poverty. When you get older, you'll have a harder time in the Netherlands. 11% of the 90-year-olds live in poverty, because those are also the difficult years. Those are the years in which the costs of care go through very hard. And right below that is a large group of elderly people who have worked for decades for that few hundred euros I just talked about. If we were to freeze the benefits or the tax brackets for 12 years, this country would be too small, but that pensions have been frozen for 12 years, no one in this cabinet seems to care. But we do care! When we started this pension system about 50 years ago, there was €0 in the pension fund and thanks to many years of premium and return, which are mainly coughed up by the elderly, a capital of 1,600 billion has been saved together today. Young people do not have to start from zero with all the risks involved. They can join a pension system that already contains hundreds of billions of reserves. A valuable gift! And if there were anything true about the claim that the elderly were eating the pension fund, then Minister Koolmees should welcome the proposal of 50PLUS to recalculate the pension of the current generation of pensioners. Just see what's been paid for all these years and what returns have been made on it. But no: he doesn't want this recalculation, because then it turns out where the holes need to be filled. 50PLUS proposes an own-initiative legislative proposal to apply at least 2% interest rates during the transition from one pension scheme to another. We will never be blamed: they stood by and looked at it. Does that also apply to the VVD, to the CDA, to D66, to the Christian Union, to the PvdA and to GroenLinks? Can our elders count on them too? This pension agreement was an opportunity. I say "was," because the odds are gone. But with a 2% bottom interest rate, we are going to try with all our might to prevent even more damage, because that too is a long way from a twelve-year zero-line recovery payment. If, Mr President, if there were a decent recovery payment on the table for unjustly missed indexation, we could have asked our constituents to choose eggs for their money. Another ten years of retirement struggle is not in the interests of pensioners and certainly not of the elderly among them, but for them there is nothing, noppies, nada, except a threat of discounts and perhaps, perhaps, indexing somewhere in the middle of this century. Can we still be there or were we just good enough to pay contributions and fill those retirement pots? Our pensions are cut off, Mr President, while in other countries pensions are seen as a means of restoring consumer confidence and stimulating spending. They don't actually have the money for that at all, but they're doing it anyway, right now. Even in Greece, pensioners recently received a recovery payment of 1.4 billion. This is not happening in the Netherlands. Here we are talking about discounts and perhaps the biggest pension discounts I've ever experienced in my life. 50PLUS believes that pensions should not be reduced as long as the Netherlands has the best capitalised pension system in the world. And if you think that there is a need to cut down, talk first to the other countries, which have no reserves at all and which are on the European infusion. Our IV! Whether it is about discrimination, about taxation or about pensions, the party defending the rights of the elderly is urgently needed. 50PLUS aims to prevent older people who are not yet retired from becoming a lost generation and standing behind in line in terms of protection, purchasing power and guidance from work to work. The greatest risk of poverty is 45-plussers who are out of work. They are very difficult to get back to work and the corona crisis must not lead to the socialisation of older people. Can we count on that in this cabinet? But having said that, 50PLUS also wants to be practical. We want a generation pact. Older people who are close to retirement age would like to quit a little earlier. They are thus opening up jobs for a new generation, who must find a way in the midst of this crisis. Bring these interests together. Don't play them against each other. Will the cabinet stand up for the generation pact? You do not need to explain 50PLUS that young people have seen their social life collapse and that they are the flex workers who are the first to be hit and who have taken the economic blows. These are our children and our grandchildren. We give them prosperity, a higher wage, and more firmness in their service. When Klaas Knot calls for and pleads for higher wages, you know there's room. If we have learned anything from this crisis, it is that we need to have more appreciation for the public sector and that cuts in our public sector and on these crucial professions in the past are now breaking up. Good healthcare, education and police: our public sector is of great value. In our election programme, you will not find a plea for a smaller government. We do not hope to find that in others either, because we have now seen how important this public sector is for the Netherlands. I think I also speak for Mr Van Weyenberg when I say that I look forward to ambitious tax plans from other parties, because something really needs to be done to prevent an implosion from the Tax Administration. 50PLUS and D66 are the only parties with a fully calculated tax route to date. In the tax plan of 50PLUS, all population groups are making the most progress so far, but we are curious about the plans of other parties, and we hope that you can outdo us. But let us above all ensure that a debacle like the dividend tax never occurs again. As far as we are concerned, the parties must have their buttocks exposed in advance when it comes to taxes, not after the elections. I have to say again, Mr President, that the best pension system in the world will be on its way next year unless the voter stops it. The biggest discounts of all time are coming when the stock market is running a bad quarter from now on. If there has ever been a casino pension, it will be for the next three months. The coverage rate on the last day of the year, which matters. Any number below 90% means irrevocable discount. 50PLUS fights this injustice. With a 2% bottom interest bill, we want to make this transition to a new system for pensioners fairer. That is the least that this Chamber should agree with in this composition, but in fact it should also acknowledge that 12 years of zero is unacceptable given the large returns that pension funds have made on our savings for 40 years. Maybe the new Chamber, after the election, will get that insight. One thing is certain: 50PLUS does not forgive and forget twelve years of zero pension. Never. Mr. Chairman. I started with that difficult question that was asked me: can we still be there? These elderly people are the same elderly people who put our children to bed when we have to work late. They're the volunteers at the community center, the soccer trainers and the material men. They are the secretaries of the Association of Owners, the treasurers of the Rent Committee. They're the carers for their parents or partners. They're the donors of charities. It's your parents, who always keep trying to catch you when you fall, even if they've actually become too fragile for that as they've always done, in good times and in bad times. They form the conscience and history of the Netherlands. If they don't, we'll be there for them. In the way a country deals with its elders, it reflects the inner civilization of that country. So, yeah, they're allowed, and we're lucky they're still here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u912	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u913	Mr President, colleagues, it has been a long sitting. We've been in this Chamber for almost 14 hours now. All sorts of speakers have passed the review. All kinds of people have put different accents. That is an element of democracy: everyone brings their own points to the fore. But I think the great danger of this kind of long sessions in these kinds of periods where there are a lot of opinions is that we lose ourselves in short-term feelings and short-term issues. A little bit for that group, a little bit off there. It is extremely important that we use this Prince's Day and these General Political Reviews to do something more than just discuss the budget for the coming year. I think we should take stock of ten years of Rutte. This year is the year in which the elections are held, on 17 March. So we have to choose whether we want to continue with this policy. It's policy that concerns the whole cartel. In those ten years, in addition to the VVD, the CDA, the Labour Party, the Christian Union and D66 have also ruled. If I look at the past ten years and see what has happened over the past ten years, I can only conclude that there has been a disaster in the Netherlands. The public sector has fallen prey to a blow, a huge blow, whether we look at care, education, safety, infrastructure or housing. The taxes have grown ever higher. While all these things were neglected, more and more immigration has been chosen, more and more pointless climate plans and more and more money for southern Europe. I have summarized it in a number of graphs. You can see here what non-Western immigration under Rutte has been allowed to come to the Netherlands over the last ten years: more than 750,000 non-Western immigrants. It is not surprising that with this kind of numbers and with the population growth that this resulted in, there has been, among other things, a huge housing shortage in the Netherlands. Let me now show you a graph of the housing shortage that has developed in the Netherlands over the last ten years. It is unprecedented how much housing shortage there is and how difficult it is for starters to find a home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u914	I can see you standing there, but first you need to get the charts through to you, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u915	I can't wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u916	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u917	The percentage of non-Western immigrants who are part of the beneficiaries of assistance, as an indication of how integration is going to happen to us, is equally shocking. I have a graph of how that has developed. You can see it's growing all the time. So the claim these people make to our social security is also enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u918	You didn't see it, did you, Mr. Azarkan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u919	I can't see the graphs from here. Maybe they can be handed out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u920	That sounds like a good plan. I can put them here. The messenger might be able to pick them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u921	I had a question about the first statistics. From the time I was in college, I remember that statistics are always dangerous. You have little lies, big lies and statistics. With statistics, you can actually prove a lot of things. I saw a statistics of people Mr Baudet said they had come to the Netherlands. Did anyone leave?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u922	People have left too, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u923	What does that look like in the graph? Actually, it's more honest when you say what the balance is. There is no point in saying that people have come and people have gone, but I do not show that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u924	That's not true. Firstly, there are net more people coming to the Netherlands than they have left. So net is still 400,000 to 500,000 non-Western immigrants. But, very importantly, one of the things we do not measure and I would like to measure is the long-term performance of immigrants. There is a great deal of reason to believe that the people who are leaving are people who have already received education and all kinds of other things that concern social services in the Netherlands, and who are also among the better performers, while people who stay in the Netherlands are people who may be very dependent on benefits, are criminals and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u925	The question was about numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u926	So you can't say at all: oh, we take the migration balance and that's it. As Martin Bosma said, you might even have to add those two together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u927	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u928	The good people are leaving, the bad people are coming in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u929	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u930	My professor wasn't named Martin Bosma. Apparently, Mr. Baudet's? Or is that someone he follows who says sensible things about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u931	He wrote that in his book entitled The Fake Elite of the False Minters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u932	No, Mr Azarkan has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u933	Oh, you mean the colleague of the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u934	Officer in the Bosma Room. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u935	Aaaah, okay! No, I thought you were quoting someone who's a professor or did that research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u936	He's almost promoted, I've been told.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u937	Yeah, I also know people who are almost pregnant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u938	Finally, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u939	Still, let's get to the migration balance. Seriously, Mr. Chairman. If you want to frighten people, what Mr Baudet is doing by sketching an image that is simply not reality, you charge people with negative feelings towards populations. That's just unfair. At least you'll have to present the right figures. If you do, that means that there are not 750,000 on balance, but about half of them. That's the balance. Then you'll have to report it. The second is that you do not say: we go for a specific group of people, because they have a certain origin or because they came here later than Mr Baudet's ancestors, keep track of what they contribute to society. Long-term performance, he called it. Why don't we just do that with everyone? Why make that distinction? And why make that distinction from a certain date? That's very debatable what you're doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u940	Yeah, at least I'm making a distinction between western and non-western. I think that is a relevant distinction because there are many more cultural and integration problems with people from a totally different environment than ours, with a totally different background from ours. But I do not find it at all a problem to measure much more, of all population groups: natives, immigrants, people with a non-Western immigration background, people with a Western immigration background... Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u941	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u942	Excellent proposal. So if I move on this, I can count on the support of Mr Azarkan, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u943	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u944	We've done that before, by the way. Then you didn't vote for it. But I'd be happy to file it again. I'd like to know everything and measure everything. That seems very relevant to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u945	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u946	So if you look at the past ten years, I think that's extremely important. I think immigration to record heights has risen. The housing shortage has risen to record heights. And the non-Western immigrants are very high in the use of social security. The insecurity has increased. The number of rapes has almost doubled, while the willingness to report has declined enormously. This means that we also have less view of total crime. If this trend continues, in 2050 40% of the Netherlands will be ethnic. That is a scenario that may not be considered by many people at the moment. In any case, it is a scenario that I think is very unattractive and that a lot of people, if they thought about it, would judge it as very unattractive. Meanwhile, the average energy bill has risen enormously; this is a graph of that. This is, of course, due to the invaluable and completely pointless climate plans of this cabinet. The rents have gone through the roof. That has something to do with it. Because all these housing corporations need to isolate their homes and increase energy prices and all kinds of other things, making it increasingly expensive to maintain homes or build new homes. It's all going through a hell of a lot. Also, messages have become more than 16% more expensive in the last ten years. This is also a direct consequence of the climate plans, because they have an impact on energy prices, gas, water, light, the production of equipment, the costs of keeping a store, and so on. Thus, while all these costs of living have increased, collective burden pressures have also increased to almost 40%. So what we all pay, the total share of government in the economy, has risen to almost 40%. The average care premium has increased enormously, while the number of hospital beds has been reduced, as we noticed during the corona crisis. So we pay more for less care. Also due to the massive immigration, which puts enormous pressure on land use in the Netherlands, and the absurd and pointless climate plans, which have created a whole vision that cows would be bad for the climate, farmers have been structurally bullied away over the past ten years. While all this happened and the members of the cabinet laughed a bit about it, more and more money has gone to the European Union. More and more money to the European Union, while the quality of education has deteriorated. The image is so clear. The image is so clear, so simple. We have been elected, over and over again, from cabinet to cabinet, for three mega-projects, in which the majority of the Chamber believes in this, namely mass immigration and the gradual unification of all the peoples of the world because we are people in general and no longer Dutch or French or Italian, etc. At the same time, and quite similar to this development and thought, a project has been launched to blur the borders of the various countries. Indeed, we are no longer Dutch, French or Italian. We are part of a European Union, of a European superstructure. And they want to sacrifice hundreds of billions of dollars. Finally, we are involved in the global climate. And even though of course the Netherlands, whatever you believe in that thought that CO affects climate and so on... Even if all that were true, the Netherlands does not have a serious impact on a global scale in any way. So they're useless, they're hopeless projects. That immigration degenerates into a quasi-bourgeois war in our streets, already. The European project degenerates into a transfer of money, in a scenario in which there is increasing animosity between north and south and eventually possible, I hope not, but possibly a violent clash between all those countries, such as Yugoslavia. And climate thinking degenerates into a transfer of money to windmills, to solar panels, dependence on China, pollution of our horizons and a stasis in the field of technology, because it is outdated technology. All that money and all that energy, the whole surplus, everything we all earn, goes on these three mega-projects and we lose care, education, safety, infrastructure and housing, while the burden continues to increase. It's such a clear picture. It's ten years of predatory construction in the Netherlands. It's a real mess. Today is a day that we can dwell on that. I don't think it's rebuttable that this is the trend. I think it is obvious that that is what has happened, that all these things are working together, that immigration is increasing the pressure on climate fanatics, because yes, we are all releasing more CO that all these climate plans make it more difficult to build houses, so that the impact of immigration is greater again, and all those people, those status holders, who get homes with priority, create even greater resistance, and so on, and so on. It is therefore not difficult, in my view, to see that this is related, that this is one project and that the Dutch project is opposed to it. The Netherlands first. Our own country. Our own people. That is the Forum for Democracy project. If I then dare to look into the future and suggest that there will be a revolution in the coming six months, that among the population in the Netherlands, with everything I may be doing wrong, whatever you may think of me, what might be charming about the members of the cartel, they will smile, have the media on their side and perhaps have their likeability, and so on, and so on, if you look through it all and the Dutch people will perhaps come to a development over the next six months where we can see that we can no longer continue on this path of putting our country into the sale of our country, of our values, of our ideas, of our people no longer protect our people. Then I imagine we're gonna stop doing that and we're gonna protect our country. That we, as a people, want to manifest ourselves on the world stage again. That we're going to be Dutch again. That we're protecting our borders again. That we're going to invest in our own country again. That we offer people who do not integrate and who do not join us to help them return to their countries of origin. That, in short, we find the spirit that has accompanied us for centuries. That we really put a new dot on the horizon. That we are developing a vision for the coming years. That we invest, indeed, in innovative energies, thorium and other things. I can't believe we're gonna stop with all the windmills and all the crazy. That we're going to build traditional again, which gives our streets a sense of home again. I can't believe we're gonna get our holidays back together. That we are going to defend our language again instead of using English everywhere, in which, firstly, teachers cannot teach because they are not able to speak English and secondly, students cannot take up education. In short, we believe that we are once again developing confidence in SMEs, which do not prey on their employees as was said here all afternoon. On the contrary, that we understand once again that everyone who has a company wants nothing more than to hire many people to grow, but that you can only do so if you don't have too many rules, if you don't have to pay too much tax, if there aren't too many problems with the weather to let workers who aren't working. In short, if we make a change, there are no limits to what we can achieve. Then the population would gradually shrink somewhat in our full country. Then there would be room for more nature. There's so much we can do. We're so innovative, so resourceful. There is still so much to be achieved if we leave behind that perfide ideology that has forced itself into the established parties. I really think that could be a new Dutch dream. It's a dream I believe in. When I started politics a few years ago this is my fourth Princess Day, the fourth time we talk about the general affairs here I thought it would go faster. I couldn't have sworn the rot would be that deep. Truly in all the gremia of the established power, the institutions, I have encountered the universalist thinking, so to speak. It's not about peoples anymore. It's not about countries anymore. It is no longer about nationalities and borders. It's always about universal principles. It is always human rights, open borders, European unification and climate. So it's a whole way of thinking. If you think all that away, then you come to a fertile seed, a fertile nucleus that is still our country, because all these things are completely useless. That's what I want to say today. I've been trying to tell a very broad story. Ten years ago and now: ten years of predatory construction on the Netherlands. Ten years of investing in a universalist project. A post-historical project. A project of the last human being who no longer has an identity, but who deals with global climate issues and who gradually abolishes and releases himself and his own culture, as opposed to a national project, which I see back at Trump and the Brexit, which I hope we can manifest in the Netherlands. I can see the skepticism. We're gonna have to beat you all. I'm not assuming I can convince you. But I do assume that I can reach the people over your heads and help light a fire in her heart that will bring this country back to bloom and light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u947	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u948	I would like to ask a question about a broadcast of ZEMBLA from this spring, when the corona crisis was at its peak. Actually, I've been waiting all along to ask you this. It was about Kornilov, a Russian publicist, journalist, who is actually associated with the Kremlin and with the dissemination of disinformation. From that broadcast and the articles I read about it, it emerged that Mr Baudet has worked closely with this person and that there may be financial flows. Mr Baudet said that nothing went to his party. I wonder if Mr Baudet could shed some light on that. How did he work with him? Is it true that he told at EenVandaag about the Ukrainian security service that would be in Amsterdam with 50 people, when he knew that was not true? Is it true that he received money from this man, personally or his party or the foundation before this party arrived? Can Mr Baudet tell us more about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u949	Yes, I can. There's no way I'd ever have received any money. After all, we are not the Postcode Lottery, which finances all those left-wing clubs Mr. Klaver always uses. So there is no question of this happening. I've said that a lot. I can certainly repeat this a few more times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u950	Okay, so you say that there has never been a payment to me personally, either to the Forum for Democracy Foundation or to the Forum for Democracy Party for the services that I have carried out for Mr Kornilov among others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u951	No. Are you kidding me? Of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u952	Okay. Then I have one more question. It's nice that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u953	Do you have a day off tomorrow, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u954	Maybe I should explain the context of this. Because you can ask: it's 11:40, so why would you do this? Mr Baudet has great ambitions with his party. It wants to be very big. And then there's a chance that he'll be part of the CTIVD, the committee that the security services have to monitor. When I see reports of contacts he would have with Russians associated with Putin and who are associated with propaganda and the influence of democracies, I find that worrying. Then Mr. Baudet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u955	You know what worries me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u956	...that laughing away. Then I ask...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u957	That a bomb was found in the dorm where Jesse Klaver was present when he was president of DWARS, the youth association of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u958	No. No, this is gonna be... Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u959	You know what worries me? The subsidy flows for the entire left-wing mob in the Netherlands. That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u960	No, Mr. Baudet... I'm gonna take you both... 'Cause I actually want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u961	With your crazy about Russians. Oh, come on, man.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u962	I just want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u963	I just wanted to ask a very simple question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u964	Yes, but that has to be very brief and it really has to be about the General Political Reviews, because I am afraid this is getting out of hand. And I want to finish the first term of the Chamber in a proper manner. Mr. Klaver was given the opportunity...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u965	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'll make it really quick. I have one more question. Is it true that Mr Baudet shared information at EenVandaag and gave an interview with information which he knew was wrong and which came from Kornilov? Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u966	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u967	Good. Thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u968	You shouldn't believe everything you see at the NPO, Jesse!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u969	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u970	Mr. Chairman. We have studied the budget plans of the Rutte cabinet. We now understand why this cabinet is in the business with the letter k; the k of "spicers." I'm gonna explain why. The first disk of income tax is reduced by these grocers from 37,35% to 37,1%, a profit that disappears behind the comma. The general tax discount will be increased by €126 a year. For AOW'ers, the elderly discount goes up with a poor €81 per year. You can't even pay the increase in municipal taxes. With these crumb figures, we are led to believe that we will be making progress in the coming year. As far as purchasing power is concerned, this cabinet with a plant sprayer is putting out the corona fire. During the Rutte/Asscher cabinet, a huge fixation was developed on reducing the budget deficit and public debt. Working and retired The Netherlands took the fall. Lodewijk Asscher went along nicely. The Labour Party has now expressed its regret. In this massive demand drop corona crisis, you need to ensure that there is a strong boost for the economy by ensuring that people quickly get more money in the cut. But that's a bridge too far for this grocery store. Prime Minister Rutte, as in the previous crisis, is back behind the facts. He thinks he gets it now. With a tenner here and a quarter of a percent there, he thinks he can straighten the case out. Mr. Chairman. We are now in a situation with the biggest crisis ever, worse than that of the 1930s. The biggest economic crisis since World War II, as we heard from Minister Hoekstra this morning on Radio 1. The economy has an arterial hemorrhage due to the corona crisis, but the prime minister thinks he can stop the bleeding with a few Hansaplast patches. So that's not gonna work! In addition, the corona measures, which we often support, are very unfair in practice. The cabinet itself recognizes that. The Macro Economic Exploration even contains a separate chapter on this subject. Zzp'ers, flex workers and young people bear a disproportionate part of the economic blow, says CPB. We have to stop this seasoning! What we need now is a marshall plan for purchasing power rather than the waste fund of 20 billion by Dijkgraaf and Dijsselbloem. That is why we have already tabled an amendment on the use of this 20 billion. These billions must now quickly reach the people in their pockets. The corona crisis has increased inequality. We will solve this by means of a generic measure, namely a substantial tax reduction, preferably through a substantial increase in the tax reduction of €2,000 for all workers and pensioners and then not spread over five years, but the whole 20 billion in the coming year. And you can. Former CPB Director Teulings indicated on Radio 1 this week that at least 15 billion annual financial space is available for relief. And he's not the first to be the best. We want a one-off boost of 20 billion for tax cuts. It must be carried out in such a way that it is mainly low- and middle-aged people and pensioners who benefit relatively most from it. Everyone who pays income tax, for example, is going to make €2,000 net gains next year, including thezzp'ers, the flexworkers, the pensioners and the young. The money for this purchasing power marshal plan is borrowed at 0% on the capital market, just like the cabinet that plans for the waste fund. Mr. Chairman. Minister Hoekstra spoke yesterday in his explanatory statement about black swans. These are events that are considered impossible, but which are still taking place and which have very great consequences. The corona crisis is one of those black swans, according to Hoekstra. But now Hoekstra adds a new animal to his zoo: an elephant, a white elephant. That is an internationally known concept. It identifies investments that cost a lot of money and yield nothing. We already have a Dutch white elephant in the Netherlands: the Betuwe line, a 172 kilometer long, which ends at the German border and still costs taxpayers a lot of money. Construction cost 4.7 billion, maintenance cost 47 million a year, already up to 0.5 billion a year, and the proceeds of all this are only 15 million a year. That is a very fat white elephant, which will swallow up taxpayers' money for many decades to come. Now Dijkgraaf and Dijsselbloem get 20 billion to distribute billions from a growth fund with a team of advisors to provide all kinds of vague plans through the old boys network with an almost inexhaustible source of money. But we say no 20 billion to this megalomaniac waste fund. It is now the turn of the workers and pensioners. Pensioners have become the closing point on the ten-year budgets of Rutte Cabinets. The crumb that is being thrown at them from box K is completely indistinguishable from the rising cost of care, the rising energy bill and the ever higher rents. And I'm not even talking about the ever higher municipal taxes. The purchasing power of pensioners has been falling for the 12th year in a row. The new pension agreement will add another seven lean years. That's a shame, isn't it? Rutte's been robbing the savings for ten years. He had the King say yesterday that next year there will be a law to record that terrible retirement agreement. We will, hopefully with other parties, as true pension pit bulls, continue to hold on to the current pension system, the best in the world. In France, retirement age is 62 years. The Dutch taxpayers must bleed for this through Rutte's EU Restoration Fund. We want to reduce the retirement age in the Netherlands, especially for heavy-duty occupations. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been discussed today about the role of the government. We've thought this through. We want a government that can be summarized in three words: effective, fair and efficient. This government is not effective, with the failing corona policy of Hugo de Jonge, who went on vacation, let it go and now the testing is completely out of control. Honestly, this government isn't messing around with the tax authorities, with the surcharges where people are being treated scumbagly. The Dutch government needs to become much more transparent. We shall table a motion on this subject in the second term. And this government is certainly not efficient: 84 billion in public administration costs. We want work and business to pay again and pensioners to get what they are entitled to. The interest rate has been artificially kept low for years. It's gotta go up. We want an immediate restoration of the indexation of pensions. Mr. Chairman. My appeal to this cabinet today is: turn professional Kruideniers into professional purchasing power. Then we can all go to a sunny future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u971	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u972	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. "You're here for us." Somewhere in the House of Representatives a work of art from the year 2015 hangs with this text, conceived and executed by Liset van Dommelen. Many politicians will not see this work of art or may not even know it. It's placed in the lodge, and that's actually a shame. Does everyone in this room know the artwork? No, that's what I was afraid of. This artwork has a message. A message that often seems to be forgotten in this house. "You're here for us." It's our job to be there for those "us." Who are they? It is all people who depend in the Netherlands on the policy that is being made here. That's all the people in the Netherlands. All these people are well aware that politics cannot stand up for everyone at the same time. It will not go unnoticed and it will be felt if they are wronged, for example if one does not and the other gets a corona fine and a criminal record. When a multinational has rights, including to negotiate the obligations, and an SME merely obligations. We must take the inhabitants of the Netherlands seriously in their questions and, above all, listen to their concerns. But we must also realise that the greatest doubt can be removed if politics is transparent. To admit that you don't know something at all is not a sign of weakness, but a sign of strength and humanity. You're not a weak leader when you listen to your residents or when you favor a minority for once. In the end, everyone belongs to a minority. The majority of Dutch people understand only too well that political choices need to be made. They also have to make choices every day. There are people who have to make a choice in the supermarket: can I put something healthy on the table for my children today? And there are people who choose a speedboat of 2 million, because it is no less than two meters longer than the old speedboat. As a politician, you can choose who you stand up for and who you're going to fight for in the House of Representatives. Of course, I choose the families who live in poverty, children's rights, the struggle for emancipation of those who need it, for those who can no longer afford to pay their rents, or who, because of all the misery, no longer have a roof over their heads. For the people who dragged us through the corona crisis and now prepare for the next wave. All these minorities together have given us an order, and they are going to do it again next March. The assignment is quite simple: improve where you can, but don't break the rest while you're doing it. "You're here for us." Over the past few years, a lot of them have been demolished. For example, the citizen consultation. This cabinet has abolished the referendum. Our precious privacy has also been negotiated in the backrooms of this cabinet by the introduction of the drag law. The care workers, who are so important: they don't get what they deserve. My adopted motion to arrange an extra net health bonus for all those care heroes who led us through the crisis now seems to be some kind of recurring tissue for bleeding to keep the caregivers quiet and deny them a structurally higher appreciation. This year they get €1,000 and next year the cabinet plans to carry it through with a further €500. Far too little. The cabinet is fortunate that this profession has more responsibility per person than this cabinet combined. What will this cabinet do if the caregivers collectively decide to keep the doors closed at a second wave? This cabinet gambles that these people are too good for this world, because they work with their hearts. Instead of stopping, you see something even more devastating: people leave care. They don't want and can't work in health care anymore. They earn too little and work too hard. It is an accident in slow motion and this cabinet really needs to come up with better plans to keep these care workers and solve the shortages in time, money and staff. Mr. Chairman. I also ask the cabinet to make concrete preparations for future pandemics. The scenario that has unfolded in recent months was already predicted, but the cabinet ignored advice on the pandemic approach since 2014. Institute Clingendael, the Ministry of Development Cooperation and Policy Evaluation (IOB), and the Dutch security services warned of a shortage of ic-beds in the event of a pandemic already in 2016. Preparation for a disaster such as this corona crisis has been part of the national security strategy for many years. Experts from RIVM, TNO, AIVD and NCTV contributed to this. But little or nothing has been done about this, according to journalistic research by Trouw and NRC. For years, it has been known that the threat of a pandemic caused by zoonoses was a real risk, with thorough preparation essential. It would have a huge impact on security interests, physical security, social and political stability and economic security. The preparations for a pandemic have mainly been symbolic. And now, right now, we might be on the eve of a new corona wave. Belgium today put South and North Holland on red and Germany issued a travel warning. We must stop chasing behind the facts, but we must now make a concrete long-term policy. Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm wondering. If we spend so much money on these kinds of investigations but ultimately do nothing with them, why do we do them? Explaining to the Netherlands that we were overwhelmed and that we couldn't foresee all this is just a lie. Whether these research reports have been in the wrong minister's drawer, or simply nothing has been done with them for cost reasons. Or as Leiden researcher Ed Dammers, one of the researchers, told the NRC: "Warnings in scenarios are mainly used in politics to confirm their own position. A disaster or a near disaster is needed in order to make what is not politically convenient but is still important in the scenarios. Politics is focused on the short term. "Urgentity represses importance." I'm going to make you a fairly safe prediction: this is not the last pandemic we get. Zoonoses will become more common than in the past as long as we put animals in stables in intensive livestock farming, or make wildlife habitats smaller and smaller. As long as we allow all this and do not learn the right lessons, we are gambling with the lives in the Netherlands. A pandemic can also start in the Netherlands, so don't look away for it. The NCTV report also states that this has to do with, among other things, the large number of farm and pet animals in the Netherlands and with the worldwide transport, the dragged with animals. This is a time bomb. It's waiting for this one to explode again. If you want to avoid that, you can't do it with poldering. Then you must show leadership. But involve people or groups in society. Take them away. Explain. But don't let it go. Don't decentralize it. Don't shuffle the responsibility either. Make long-term decisions, even if that's difficult. You're here for us. It is not just about the Dutch or the inhabitants of the Netherlands. It is also about humanity, about responsibility beyond our borders. Now politics is often about numbers far behind the decimal place, but people don't fit in numbers, and certainly not behind the decimal place. As a Dutchman, I am deeply ashamed of the fact that there are representatives of the people who are happy that we are exchanging 100 refugees against 100 other refugees. 100 people for 100 people, people like you, like me. Where is the Dutch mercy in Dutch politics? In local politics, fortunately, you hear a different sound. Why isn't that being listened to? How can we trust our leaders when they say that they are behind the policy as a minister and are about to go into the elections to use these refugees as a political toy so that they do not alienate themselves from their own supporters and voters? Then who are you in front of? Not for us, not for the common good, not for your own electorate and not for your ideals, but only for yourself and a small group of followers around you. Mr. Chairman. I will use the few speaking time I have during the budget debates to see if I can bring in a piece of humanity. And to remind everyone in the Chamber, including myself, of the text "you are here for us," I would like to make an appeal to place the artwork of Liset van Dommelen or a variant on it somewhere in a place where all MPs and rulers are confronted with it daily. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u973	Thank you. Mr Van Haga has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u974	Mr. Chairman. Last year Dutch politics was like the string orchestra on the Titanic that played cheerful, just before the ship hit an iceberg. Geert Wilders kept a moving story about the fact that he had lost his freedom and that he was the victim of a political trial. In the meantime, we know that the reality is much worse. I too wish to express my support for Comrade Wilders from this place in his fight against this form of corruption. I find it really disgusting that 16 years of security today is seen by some as proof of a functioning rule of law. Last year Klaas Dijkhoff held a social story about Philips as representative of the caring business community. In the meantime, we know that the business community in the Netherlands is completely on the drip. Last year Thierry Baudet kept a philosophical story about how beautiful the Netherlands is and how much danger our beautiful country is in if we don't make some fundamental choices. In the meantime, we know how much the havoc is if the government of the country makes the wrong choices. Mr. Chairman. On the first page of the Macro Economic Reconnaissance, the corona fear screams at you. 5% shrink in 2021 and even 10% shrink in a fabulous second wave scenario. How scared should we get? Corona was the game changer in the past year and it was immediately the litmus test of this cabinet. Anyone can look after the store, but in the event of a war or a crisis, it becomes clear whether the right people are at the helm. When hospitals flooded in March, there was an unclear situation. It was justified that certain measures were taken at that time. There is a great deal to be done on the preparation, on the speed of reaction, on the panicky school closure, on the lack of protective equipment, on the lack of test material and on the conflicting reports on group immunity. But no one can blame the cabinet for any measures being taken. So congratulations for that. A few months later everything turned out to be different. 6,200 people were found to have died instead of the hundreds of thousands expected and the one and a half meter measure proved arbitrary and pointless. There's hardly any contamination outside. PCR tests were found to give up to 30% false positive results. Why does the cabinet not change its policy with this knowledge? Not the coronavirus, but the measures taken by the cabinet proved to lead to a social, cultural and economic implosion of our country. The havoc is complete. We ended up in a dystopian society with all sorts of strange contradictions: a Black Lives Matter demonstration was welcomed while anticorona demonstrations were knocked down hard. Billions of euros were transferred to Europe instead of to our military, our police officers, our teachers and our nurses. Even worse: cancer patients and heart patients died because corona patients had priority. The cabinet is persevering in the harsh measures, while the damage to society is unbearable and the corona crisis is statistically simply over. Nevertheless, the VWS Minister is working on a senseless app and an undemocratic emergency law and as a icing on the cake with a vaccine that will never protect us from all known mutations of COVID-19. Together with Comrade Baudet I have tabled dozens of motions to change this minister's mind about PCR tests, about the one-and-a-half meter measure, about regional differentiation, about ventilation and about returning to normal as soon as possible. But nothing happens at all, while technically there is reason enough to give people their lives back. This whole unreal situation is based on positive PCR tests. I have asked many questions here, but I never get an answer at all, so again: does the Minister agree with me that the PCR test has a large margin of error in demonstrating a corona contamination? And does the Minister agree with me that if this is true, the figures of the RIVM are simply misleading and the basis for all these corona measures falls away? As far as I'm concerned, the PCR gate is the biggest blunder of this century, with catastrophic consequences. Mr. Chairman. I would like to mention a few separate groups. Firstly, the young people and the students. Young people are not sick of corona at all, but are now sitting together behind their computer screens. Physical education is essential. Online education is an inferior replacement. The cabinet has the guts to treat students as kindergarten students by setting a curfew and a ban on alcohol. Student associations have been de facto beaten to death just as much as the beer that can no longer be served. Where is the time when students occupy the Virgin House at such a time? And then there's the event business. The Netherlands is the absolute number one in the entertainment industry. We have the best DJs in the world. The whole world is looking at us with admiration. Not only to DJ Tiësto, but also to Jebroer, Outsiders, DJ La Fuente, Bizzy, Lange Frans and many others. But not for long, because this whole industry is going to break down and will never come back. What the cabinet doesn't seem to realize is that half a million people work in this industry: sound engineers, cameramen, stage builders, security guards, tent builders, discos artists, hospitality and festivals. They're on the verge of bankruptcy. Again, it is no longer necessary, because corona is statistically all over. In other European countries it is all possible, so why not here? The remedy is worse than the ailment, but I fear that this balding will only stop after the elections of 17 March 2021. I can assume that the Netherlands will then settle this cabinet on this coronagate. Mr President, after pfas, nitrogen, corona, CO2, climate agreement, dga tax and other jealousy taxes, almost no longer can our business be expected to keep up the courage. For a number of years there has been no respect for the small self-employed person who works 80 hours a week hard, manufactures products, recruits customers, provides jobs and arranges his or her own pension through investments. Now we see that two million entrepreneurs are even going to pay 11.36% extra tax on their pension in box 3. With the increased WOZ value, this has become almost 40% for a retired butcher who rents out his own store. Why don't we just tax the actual return in box 3? Mr. Chairman. Our farmers are being chased off their land and builders are no longer able to build because of the suffocating rules which are being pushed down our throats by part-time officials. The taxes in the Netherlands are incredibly high. The regulatory burden was already excessive, but Corona has made it completely incomprehensible. For example, a halloween project of the company 50:HERTZ in Amsterdam was banned by the GGD because of an anti-gil measure; that's to be mad about. Is it not possible to at least delete a number of rules for companies up to 50 fte, such as no ISO certificate, no works council, no client council, no two-year pay-back in case of illness, no time-consuming reintegration paths, but simply to get them to undertake again? Mr. Chairman. I am an entrepreneur, one of the few in this Chamber. I can tell you that it is no longer perseverable. The only second wave I'm predicting is a wave of bankruptcy. Mr President, I would like to say a few words about the energy transition. On Saturday evening, I saw Minister Ollongren say something very sensible: "We should not fill meadows with solar panels. If you want a solar panel, you can put it on your roof, because that doesn't cost any space." Congratulations, and as far as I'm concerned, no subsidy. But unfortunately, Minister Ollongren is not about this. That's what engineer Wiebes is about. That's the Minister of Climate, who seems to have forgotten what he learned in Delft. Mr. Chairman. That's why I have a few questions for engineer Wiebes. Do you now regret the billions of subsidies for burning biomass? The emissions of CO2 and fine dust are higher than at a coal power plant, but because EU rules qualify biomass as sustainable, you have joined this Kafkaesque fantasy. What are you going to do to reverse this technically irresponsible policy? The Netherlands had to get rid of natural gas from engineer Wiebes, while methane is the cleanest fossil fuel. In 2019, 0.9% of our solar energy production and 1.83% of wind energy came. That is therefore completely negligible. Does engineer Wiebes agree with me that if we get rid of the gas, this simply means that we have to import dirty energy from Poland or Russia? And how will engineer Wiebes adjust the demand-driven electricity grid to supply-driven solar and wind energy? In the case of full load solar and wind power supply, the base power stations of the grid are printed and the efficiency decreases. The net result of this political air bicycle industry is therefore negative. What's your solution? Mr. Chairman. A solar field of 10 hectares delivers 5,000 megawatts a year. The Eemshaven plant delivers 1,560 megawatts and this power plant provides as much energy in 3.5 hours as this giant dead solar field in a year. Does engineer Wiebes agree with me that solar fields should be banned immediately? Finally, Mr President. We're at a tipping point in history. The havoc of the corona crisis is enormous, a corona crisis that has only become a crisis because of the measures taken by this cabinet. I see an enormous culture of fear, nurtured by the rulers and the uncritical media that go along with it, and I see a sneaking deprivation of liberty by an increasingly powerful government that penetrates our lives beyond the front door. I've given up hope that this cabinet will mean something to our freedom. My hope is based on the elections of 17 March 2021. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u975	Thank you. A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u976	I have a question for Mr Van Haga. In his speech he mentioned something about the social story of Klaas, referring to the social story of Mr Dijkhoff. We have met Mr Van Haga here in recent months as a very realistic and critical Member of Parliament, but of course he is from the VVD house. The VVD stood there and looked at it and is also largely responsible for a number of trends that he describes, not only the towering loads, but also the bizarre corona policy. Did Klaas sleep? What happened? How did he experience that? He can speak freely. What happened to the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u977	Thank you for this interesting question. It is interesting, of course, because Comrade Wilders got a bit of the same question when he was told: yes, when you were in the VVD, you said something else and now you speak freely. That's right, of course. I'm like comrade Wilders from the VVD. It's almost my anniversary, by the way, because on the 24th it's exactly a year ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u978	Congratulations. I think it's been better since then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u979	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u980	Did you guys agree to this interruption or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u981	No, nothing was agreed at all; if only. I'll invite you all to my anniversary. Anyway, to get back to the question. Of course, you choose a different line in a group. That is the group's line. So I can speak freely now. Let me answer it as an entrepreneur. If I'm an entrepreneur looking at the last ten years, I've only had problems with the different cabinets. I don't know if you can charge the VVD completely, because the VVD was in coalitions, of course. And if you're in a coalition with the Labour Party, that's another story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u982	It's 12:15! I'd love to hear you tell me how it went, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u983	Madam President, I have also waited 14 hours to stand here. These are my first and probably my last General Political Reviews, because I hope next time... Well, no, that's a whole different story. Let me not say anything about that, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u984	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u985	Did the VVD sleep? In the corona crisis, of course, we've seen a lot of people sleep. There were people who hibernated when the corona crisis broke out, and I blame a lot of people for that. There were also people who were extremely active, like Minister De Jonge here. But he did the wrong things and then it doesn't help either!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u986	Then it's actually worse, and then you better get some sleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u987	No, Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u988	Yeah, well, you'd better fall asleep.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u989	Well, thank you, Mr. Van Haga. Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-16-tweedekamer-2.u990	We'll start tomorrow at 10:45. The Prime Minister will then reply on behalf of the government. I thank the Prime Minister, but especially the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery.
