ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u1	The next item is the amendment of the Tobacco and Smoke Law to extend the smoking ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u2	First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Jansen of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me put it first: the PVV is not in favour of smoking. We share the view that we should avoid young people starting smoking, both from the regular tobacco cigarette and the e-cigarette. We are not asking for the e-cigarette to be promoted, but the fact is that countries around us have a very different e-cigarette policy. The e-cigarette can also be seen as a means to stop smoking, as an alternative to the much more harmful tobacco cigarette. In the United Kingdom, for example, a much higher percentage of smokers has stopped than in the Netherlands. We are not denying that it is better to stop smoking as a whole, but if the e-cigarette helps people to live less harmfully, isn't it profit? Additional research is currently being carried out into the e-cigarette, including whether harmful substances are released to the bystanders when an e-cigarette is evaporated. Why doesn't the Secretary of State await this investigation before he pushes through this law amendment? In any case, we do not understand why the Secretary of State wishes to inform the e-cigarettes as much as the traditional, much more harmful tobacco cigarette. This legislative amendment is an implementation of one of the measures contained in his beloved Prevention Agreement. The smoking ban will be extended by 2020 for the e-cigarette with and without nicotine. The current smoking ban only applies to smoking tobacco products. With enlargement, we want to ban smoking of existing and future vapour and related products that cause health damage. This is also to strengthen the social standard that smoking is not normal and to protect young people. However, this amendment does not cover all related products. Related products are, in addition to electronic vapours, also herbal products intended for smoking, and these products are excluded from the attention of the Secretary of State. What picture is he sketching? That smoking a bong or a joint isn't a problem? Does the Secretary of State consider that smoking a bong is less harmful than vaporizing an e-cigarette? These herbal smoke products are actually smoked, burned. So I don't think so, but why does the Secretary of State make an exception to the smoking ban for herbal smoke products? In the explanatory statement, we can read that the NVWA has recommended that herbal smoke products be placed under the smoking ban. The NVWA points out that the complex inspection method in shishalounges continues. When smoking the water pipe, two product types can be smoked: herbal mixtures with tobacco and herbal mixtures without tobacco. The first is covered by the smoking ban, but the second is not. At the moment, the complex is to check whether or not a smoked product contains tobacco. This should be established by a laboratory examination. How much time does this take? And how much is this going to cost? In 2018, 60% of the inspections carried out in shishalounges included measures, 126 fines and 13 written warnings. In 2017, 63% of the inspections carried out at shishalounges were wrong. More than 139 measures have been adopted, 167 fines and 22 written warnings. In addition, 84 inspections were carried out at other catering companies, which offer the smoking of water pipes, such as restaurants with the North African or Middle East cuisine. In addition, more than half of them have been imposed 56% to be precise, 42 fines and 5 written warnings. Mr. Chairman. In 2016 and 2015, we saw similar figures. It is unbelievable that the Secretary of State simply overlooks these violations and does not use this change of law to tackle the unhealthy water pipe and these notorious offenders at the same time. The Secretary of State also states that herbal smoke products such as the bong are often smoked in fixed locations, i.e. shishalounges. He states that visitors of these occasions are consciously looking for these products. Not a word he'll mention which visitors these are. Did he even do any research on this? Foreign criminals often hang around in and around shishalounges. There is often hassle and the shishalounges do not take it with the regulations, according to the number of measures imposed by the NVWA. The municipality of Roosendaal has seven lounges. These were extensively checked last April. From this it emerged that in almost all lounges tobacco is still smoked. And this week, too, it hit again. Last Monday and Tuesday the police arrested seven suspects on suspicion of money laundering, drug trafficking and participation in a criminal organization in Alphen aan den Rijn. In connection with the investigation, a shishalounge has been provisionally closed. Mr. Chairman. This is not the first and certainly not the last report on criminal activities in shishalounges. Why does the Secretary of State want to make an exception for these visitors? Why does the Secretary of State want to keep the shishalounges, or one large smoke room? Visitors to other restaurants, such as the brown café on the corner, will be bonjoured out with their cigarette, and later also with an e-cigarette. And there you are as a smoker who has stopped, with your less harmful e-cigarette. Then you'll have to go outside, while inside a bong may be lured by criminals among others. This can and can be done simply by this Secretary of State, because this "is beyond the scope of the Prevention Agreement'. What an incredibly lame excuse. Looks like the Secretary of State is giving the bong and shishalounges ample space. As far as PVV is concerned, we are therefore not consistent. We will therefore table an amendment, together with the SP, to extend the amendment of the Tobacco and Smoking Goods Act to include a ban on smoking a bong with herbal mixtures without tobacco. If you're gonna do it, you're gonna have to do it completely and do it right. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u4	Thank you. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to talk about the tobacco industry. For too long we have allowed this industry to go ahead. On a large scale, research results were manipulated. On a large scale, doubts were raised about health aspects of smoking. And on a large scale lobbyists were sent to the political arena to prevent politicians from tightening up the policy. And the tobacco industry is still tampering with laboratory tests that do not really measure how harmful these cigarettes are. They are tested in a kind of vacuum environment for those harmful substances, but not in a realistic way, in which the filter of the cigarette is actually pressed. "Shumbled cigarettes" is what they're called in this discussion. All these efforts by this industry were not for nothing. Currently, almost one in five adults still smoke in the Netherlands. Every year 20,000 Dutch die from the consequences of smoking. And there's a direct causal link between starting smoking, getting addicted, getting lung cancer and dying too young. The American historian Louis Kyriakoudes did research into the tobacco industry. He calculated that in the 20th century about 100 million people worldwide died from tobacco use. If that figure is correct, tobacco has killed more people than wars and violent conflicts died in that century. Last Saturday, the outgoing chairman of the Health Council, Pim van Gool, was less diplomatic than I have heard before. He was clear in his expressions about this. He says, "Every day, children start smoking. And actually 35 of them die from smoking later. That's a school class a day." And then he says, "If a terrorist shot a class of kids every day, the government would intervene, and here's a terrorist at work." That's what the divorced chairman of the Health Council says. With the law now before us, we intend to include the e-cigarette in the smoking ban. Belgium introduced us to this, as did several American states. And now you don't know my party as one who wants to ban everything immediately, but my party does think it is of great social importance to discourage unhealthy choices and encourage healthy choices. That e-cigarette already entered 15 years ago because it was called a safe alternative to that carcinogenic cigarette. But this promise has not been fulfilled. And according to RIVM researchers, there is no doubt that the e-cigarettes are not innocent. They may be less harmful than those traditional cigarettes, but still harmful. How damaging the e-cigarette is is not clear at the moment. Many tobacco-related diseases occur after a long time. The product can also encourage young people to experiment with smoking. My group will support this law to extend the smoking ban to the e-cigarette and other products. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State for going through with this. However, my group still has a number of broader questions about the policy of discouragement and sales policy. There are currently large differences between the life expectancy of more practically educated and theoretical trained people in the Netherlands, between those with a somewhat lower socio-economic status and higher socio-economic status. The WRR said two years ago that we need to look at policies that target specific groups rather than a generic discouragement policy for everyone. Now it appears that MBO students smoke more often than their peers in secondary education, in college or in university. One in three 17-year-old MBO students smoke regularly. That is a much higher number than in HBO, for example. There's one in five. Cannabis use is also high with one in seven in the MBO. Does the Secretary of State see possibilities to further discourage the smoking behaviour of this particular group of students, possibly in cooperation with the MBO Council and the Roc's? The same applies to the VMBO departments in secondary education. I would like to comment on this point. Finally, a question about the number of points of sale of tobacco, e-cigarettes and other products. As far as we are concerned, all these products leave the shelves of supermarkets and service stations as soon as possible. What are the Secretary of State's ambitions in this area in terms of policy and planning? I'd like a response. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u6	Thank you. I call Mrs Hermans of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u7	Mr. Chairman. Every year, about a million people try to quit smoking. My informant is one of that million this year. I want to say to her: go! People, including them, quit smoking for a number of reasons. It gives you a fitter, finer and healthier feeling, the chance of scary diseases decreases, it saves a lot of money and, a very important point too, you are also an example for younger generations, for children. But stopping smoking is also difficult. That's why it sounds almost like a cliché. We better do everything we can to prevent people from starting smoking, especially children. Also because we know from all kinds of studies that children are extra addictive. But still about 75 children a day start smoking. So there's work to be done. The VVD therefore also supports the Prevention Agreement and the aim of the Prevention Agreement when it comes to discouraging smoking in society and in particular among children. We must do everything we can to make them grow up in a smoke-free environment and a smoke-free generation. So we also support the measures announced in the Prevention Agreement to discourage smoking. Just like this bill, which also applies the smoking ban to the e-cigarette. 'Cause we know seeing smoking does smoke. So whatever product, it's good that the smoking ban is extended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u8	I am in favour of the introductory remarks made by Mrs Hermans of the VVD. She says we have to do everything we can to make sure that children don't smoke and actually that adults quit smoking. How then is it that the VVD does not support the proposal to ban the sale of tobacco in supermarkets and service stations?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u9	Mr. Van Gerven's interruption is exactly ahead of the part where I had arrived. Of course, I have also seen those reports in the newspaper about speeding up the reduction of sales points. I believe that this is anticipating the agreements we have made by a large number of parties here in the Chamber. I would like to stress once again that we support the aims of the Prevention Agreement and all the measures we have agreed on in the Prevention Agreement. But by taking steps forward now, while we are in the process of implementing the Prevention Agreement, while a lot of parties are working hard to implement the agreement that we are going to reduce the number of sales points, we are not doing justice to all those efforts that are being made in the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u10	What do you mean, effort? Whose? From the supermarkets? From the petrol station lobby, which wants to continue selling cigarettes with all the violence, because it is a earning model, at the expense of our children and of adults who want to get rid of smoking and then prefer not to see those cigarettes? Surely it is quite clear that it will be effective if we reduce the number of outlets and if tobacco disappears completely from sight, even for our young people? Doesn't the VVD know that? Then it would be good if we just keep going. We had this discussion with the supermarkets last year and before. It is certain that they will do so only if they are forced to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u11	Mr Van Gerven pretends that nothing happens and I do not agree with him. A supermarket and a drugstore have already made a decision. The NS recently made a big decision to stop selling tobacco products. As I said just now, we fully support the Prevention Agreement and all the agreements we have made in it, whether it is dealing with problematic alcohol consumption, healthy eating, overweight or smoking measures. However, I would remind you that we have concluded a Prevention Agreement with 70 organisations or parties working in their areas, on the various subjects I have just mentioned. Then it is not neat to pre-empt the course we have already made. I would like to quote from the Prevention Agreement: "The VWS Ministry has carried out research into the possibilities of reducing the number of outlets in the future. At the end of this cabinet period, there is clarity about the process and when a further reduction in the number of outlets will be achieved." Then it is neat that we also stick to our part of the agreement, namely first an investigation and then we look further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u12	Parliament can simply make its own decision. Of course, we have seen that agreement, but it has not been concluded with Parliament. No, that has closed a number of parties without parliament. We had to wait until that agreement was there and then we could find something. Finally, let me ask the following question: how long can supermarkets sell tobacco? I assume that the VVD also believes that supermarkets should not actually sell tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u13	I believe that supermarkets are already taking an important step which we have incorporated into the law; I admit that by putting cigarettes behind closed doors, so to speak. That legislation will enter into force this summer, but it has already been introduced at my supermarket. I think this is a good and important step. We support the fact that we are going to reduce or reduce sales points. I am concerned that we should do so in a way that fits, has that effect and that we should stick to our part of the agreement. We committed ourselves to this when we had the debate on the Prevention Agreement here last September. In it is the sentence I just read: first an investigation and on that basis we look further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u14	No, Mr. Van Gerven, this was three times in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u15	No, but, Mr President, she is not answering my specific question. Does the VVD think supermarkets shouldn't sell tobacco? When does the VVD think it's time to intervene if they continue to sell tobacco?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u16	Mr. Chairman. This is what she thinks. She believes that the agreements made in the Prevention Agreement are the agreements made in the Prevention Agreement. Reducing points of sale is also part of discouragement from smoking. We agreed that we should investigate this and then look at what measures should be taken. That's what I'm saying on behalf of the VVD here and what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u17	Please continue with your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u18	I just wanted to ask a question, because the last part of my speech I have actually already mentioned in the interruption with Mr Van Gerven. I think it is important that we stick to our part of the bargain. That's an investigation first, and then, based on that investigation, we'll determine what's needed when we need it. My question to the Secretary of State is: what does the process look like now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u19	Thank you. Mrs Kuik of the CDA has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The smoke-free generation is our goal. Every year, 20,000 people die from smoking. Smoking is not a normal product. It's something that not everyone can just quit because it's addictive. This cabinet is therefore right to take several measures to reduce smoking and multi-smoke smoking. What I think is so strong is that this is a broad public debate and that civil society organisations, businesses and neighbourhood associations are fully involved and are taking steps in our society. Beautiful is also the new campaign in Groningen of the GGD and 100 organizations. The campaign "Don't hesitate" focuses on mutual understanding and the common goal: you don't want to let your environment and especially children smoke again. I don't know any parent who wants her or his kid to smoke. The CDA is in favour of a broad tobacco discouragement policy. The measures we are discussing today are also a good step forward. Our questions about the bill were largely adequately answered in the written round. I have a short question. Does the Secretary of State, like the CDA, have the impression that, despite the positive example of Lidl with the number of supermarkets, it is not moving in the right direction? You read in the AD that supermarket chain says Jumbo doesn't stop selling cigarettes on its own. His top man says, "As long as it's not forbidden by law, we're gonna keep doing it." You see more and more supermarkets pupping up. Today there was an article in De Telegraaf about Amsterdam. Research by real estate advisor Colliers International also shows that the number of supermarkets is increasing. So it's not going in the right direction. As far as the CDA is concerned, it is no longer of this time that tobacco is still available in supermarkets. Steps need to be taken. I shall table a motion on this in the second term. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u21	Thank you. Mr Van Gerven has another question for you. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u22	That was pretty fast from the CDA. Salute for the CDA and for Mrs Kuik in particular, because she takes a very different view than the VVD, and that in a coalition, and she speaks very clearly against the sale of tobacco by supermarkets. Now there's a motion from her and Mrs. Dik-Faber from last year. It states that there should be a law if the number of tobacco outlets does not substantially decrease in the coming years, at least before 2022. Is she going to suggest that again? Or does she come up with a reinforced motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u23	Of course, I am not proposing the same thing. That would be weird. So, sure: I want to take a step further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u24	Then can you tell me what the difference is? Will 2022 be 2020? How am I supposed to see that? It is good for the debate, even for its first term, to know a little bit about what the motion, which the newspaper has so eagerly written about, is going to mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u25	Mr Van Gerven is right on top of it. We have previously tabled a motion stating that the number of sales points for 2022 must have fallen substantially. We read it in reports in the newspaper and we see it in the shopping streets: there are more and more supermarkets and big chains say they're not going to change anything. I shall therefore table a motion for a resolution on this matter. We have indicated that measures will be taken if nothing happens. The Secretary of State must therefore talk with these supermarkets and with all the other supermarkets and with petrol stations, because if we do not see a substantial decline, then the result will be that measures will be taken. We are now seeing the supermarkets pupping up and we are seeing more and more points of sale. That's actually totally against the deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u26	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u27	I'll take that as a second-term cliff hanger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u28	It's gonna be very exciting. Finally, Mr Van Gerven himself has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u29	Mr. Chairman. The SP is for this extension of the Tobacco and Smoking Goods Act, because smoking is harmful and deadly. We therefore support the amendments to extend the smoking ban. The SP is also in favour of initiatives that help prevent young people from smoking, discourage smoking and smoke smoking, and support smoking cessation. We are in favour of extending the smoking ban to the use of all tobacco products and e-cigarettes. This amendment covers all kinds of tobacco products which are not currently covered by this law. There's more clarity. That's important. However, we still have a few questions and proposals to improve this bill in our view. I understand that the law provides that herbal smoke products are not placed under the smoking ban. The point is, however, that the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority has indicated that this is actually not a good proposal, and that it is much better to include it in it. This will facilitate compliance and inspection, because if a herbal smoke product is used without tobacco, the smoking ban that is regulated by this law will not be infringed. But whether or not there is tobacco in a water pipe, for example, must then be determined by laboratory testing. That is complicated to maintain, because they will not be able to observe it on the spot, I suppose. Then that has to be re-examined. Then it goes to a laboratory. Then they have to go back to that shishalounge, for example. Isn't that very complicated? Why are we being so difficult when things can be much easier? The reason the cabinet indicates is that these products are often smoked in fixed locations, with people looking for these locations on purpose. Another reason is that the negotiations on the Prevention Agreement did not include herbal smoke products as one of the priorities. But that's not very convincing, I'm saying. Even if it has not been put as a priority, if it can be resolved and it can easily improve the supervision by NVWA, then I think we should do so. I read further: "It generally takes place in fixed locations and in general it is people who look it up specifically." That does not seem very clear and clear to me, so I would like an explanation from the Secretary of State. Could this also be put under the law? How does this relate to the Ministry's intention to come up with legislation that will eliminate smoking areas throughout the hospitality industry and also in shishalounges? This means that in these establishments no more bong can be smoked with tobacco, but with herbal smoke products. That seems very complicated to me. By the way, the Alliance of the Netherlands also advocates smoking-free. I have checked whether the municipality of Apeldoorn was there, but I am sorry to admit that it was not. But I still think it's a nice alliance. That's what he advocated. Then there is another point that struck me as strange. This concerns the appliances that heat tobacco. They are still not covered by the Tobacco Act when it comes to the advertising ban and the age limit. This makes it easier for children to use this deadly product, heated tobacco. If we want a smoke-free generation, then we must also bring those heating products under the Tobacco Act, in order to set up a dam against the efforts of the tobacco industry to get young people to smoke and keep them addicted to smoking. If I have understood correctly, this also applies to the accessories necessary for smoking an e-cigarette. I have therefore made an amendment which would put it in the law. I'd like an appreciation from the Secretary of State. Hopefully he will support the amendment. Mr President, I shall go to a conclusion. It is, so close to the carnival recess, quite special to note that the mood has changed in the Netherlands. On 29 November 2008 I was present at a demonstration at the Malieveld. That was a pro-smoking demonstration with thousands of people, including from Belgium; they came from everywhere. I spoke there. I must say that the beer bottles were flying around; it was a very dynamic meeting. But I'm still here, so I survived it all. Now it is inconceivable that there could be demonstrations for smoking again in that way and certainly on that scale. Then the PVV and the SP were opposite each other. I'm talking about 2008. Now we are a few years ahead and now it can be just that the PVV and the SP are jointly tabling an amendment. That's a win, isn't it? Anyway, we're a long way from here. In 2007, 23% of people over 15 years of age smoked daily. Now that is in the order of 17%. By 2040 the counter should be at 4%. So we are on our way, but there is still a very long way to go. Let's all work on it for the sake of our children. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u30	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. I shall suspend, at the request of the Secretary of State, until 9:38 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u31	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u32	Mr. Chairman. It is nice to be here today to talk about one of the legal measures resulting from the National Prevention Agreement. The agreement has been mentioned a few times in the debate. In it, various measures were agreed with a large number of organisations with the ultimate goal of that smoke-free generation in 2040. In concrete terms, that doesn't mean any smoking child in 2040. In order to achieve this objective, it has been agreed that more children will grow up in a smoke- and tobacco-free environment. The measure we are discussing today fits perfectly into this. I hear from various groups that they are in full agreement with this. In recent years, a number of products have been marketed that are not smoked other than traditional tobacco. For example, there are products where tobacco is heated instead of burned. There are also more and more vapours on the market, such as the e-cigarette with all kinds of flavors. In addition, in the coming years, new products are likely to come onto the market which are intended or unintentionally just outside the scope of the smoking ban as we know it now. Let us also be clear: we are already regulating these kinds of products, such as the e-cigarette. There are already reducing legal measures, as with the ordinary cigarette, for ordinary tobacco and smoke products. For example, the age limit for the e-cigarette already applies and there is an advertising ban. We are also going to introduce a ban on e-cigarettes. So in a number of areas, the e-cigarette is already in line with traditional smoke products. The smoking ban we now know only concerns the smoking of traditional tobacco products. That's out of date. This includes extending the smoking ban to products such as e-cigarettes or heated tobacco. These products have been marketed by the tobacco industry as a less harmful alternative to traditional smoking. Let us be clear: all tobacco products are addictive and harmful to public health. E-cigarettes are also harmful. Moreover, the vapour of heated tobacco and e-cigarettes is harmful to bystanders. For once, let us be ahead of the tobacco industry by banning new addictive products from public space in time and letting all tobacco products be consumed under the smoking ban. It is important to set the same clear standard for these products as for cigarettes, because consumption of these products is not normal. Mr. Chairman. The use of heated tobacco or e-cigarettes is incompatible with the objective of organising a smoke-free generation and creating a smoke-free and tobacco-free environment. That is what all the parties who took part in the consultations for the establishment of the National Prevention Agreement say. The Trimbos Institute states that children or young people who see others smoke. Seeing smoking makes smoking. I'm glad to see that parties like the NS and ProRail recognize this and have already banned the e-cigarette from the train and plan to ban it from the platforms as well. Let me conclude with what I started: in order to achieve a smoke-free generation, it is necessary to exclude products such as heated tobacco, e-cigarettes or future new forms of tobacco use from public space. The extension of the smoking ban is therefore an indispensable link in the whole range of measures needed to achieve a smoke-free generation. That brings me to questions from Mr Jansen, but before I answer them, he wants to ask me another question, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u33	Yes, Mr Jansen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u34	I have a question about the e-cigarette. You're quite sure about that. You see the e-cigarette as a smoker. Don't you also see it as a drug so that people who smoke in steps can go back to stopping smoking? They go from an ordinary cigarette to an e-cigarette and then slowly back, because you can also dose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u35	I had already noted that question from Mr Jansen. This point has been referred to several times by his group in other consultations. In itself, it is a legitimate point when he says "it can help some people to get rid of the addiction called smoking." He also refers to other countries where that seems to be more common sense. I can say that we do not intend to encourage the use of the e-cigarette as a means of eliminating smoking. We're not going to encourage that. This does not alter the fact that the use of the e-cigarette is indeed used in different rehab methods. We're not gonna slow that down. If this is used in a tried and tested method, we do not want to slow it down by definition. But tobacco discouragement policy is aimed at stopping smoking, across the board, including the e-cigarette. It shouldn't be a replacement and a permanent replacement. I heard Mr Jansen say in his term that he is not in favour of promoting the e-cigarette as a permanent replacement. An important directive for our tobacco discouragement policy is the 2016 Tobacco Treatment Directive and smoking cessation support. That Directive gives preference to behavioural support, possibly supplemented by medication. It is recommended that the use of the e-cigarette, which is not excluded in this approach, be discontinued after some time. For some people it may help to get rid of smoking, but those are the exceptions in certain methods of getting rid of smoking. It is not our preference that we promote it a. and place b. e-cigarettes in a privileged position compared to the ordinary cigarette. That is my answer to Mr Jansen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u36	A comprehensive answer. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u37	Very comprehensive, Mr. Chairman. That it is not promoted, I agree with the Secretary of State. But you can position it as a means to slowly but surely reduce and stop. Right now, it looks like it's being put down like something that's just as bad. RIVM is conducting an investigation and that has not yet been completed. Aren't we walking a little ahead of the band like this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u38	I would like to say two things about this. The advantage of giving a long answer is that you said everything at once. So I don't have to add anything. I gave the answer and that's it. We do not promote it, but it is used in some methods. Mr Jansen is transferring his first term to the interrupting microphone, because I am referring to the next question. If Mr Jansen wishes to repeat all his questions on the interrupting microphone, I am fine with that, but then the debate will take a little longer. I was at the answer to the next question. I have taken note of all the questions put by Mr Jansen and I hope he will have the patience to wait until I pass them. The next question was: isn't there an investigation into the harmfulness of the e-cigarette? The answer to that question is: yes, that investigation is ongoing. That will be completed soon. Then, of course, I'm going to share that with the Chamber. But that research is, as far as I am concerned, an addition to research that has already been published by RIVM, in which it has been demonstrated beyond doubt that e-cigarettes are harmful. We know that e-cigarettes are harmful to consumers and bystanders. This has been demonstrated by RIVM study from 2014. The liquid that is evaporated in the e-cigarette contains substances that can be harmful to the user. When nicotine is present, there is even a very large chance of addiction. Moreover, the e-cigarette can be a stepping stone for young people to the ordinary cigarette. In a follow-up study, we want to show whether the research we have done is still current or whether there are new insights which show further damage. We hear very alarming stories from, for example, America, where a crowd of young people are reaching for the e-cigarette and the tobacco industry is eager to respond to. For example, we have also asked the question of the attractiveness of flavours. This research will be carried out in the very near future. I'll tell the Chamber what new insights that leads to. The understanding that the e-cigarette is harmful and should therefore be treated in the same way as the ordinary cigarette is as ready as we are for us and for all participants in the prevention agreement. So no doubt to put it under the same heading when it comes to the prohibitions. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Jansen's question about herbal smoke products. Mr Van Gerven has also asked for this. We have had various debates on prevention over the past year, one and a half years. This question has been raised in every debate. I've given the same answer over and over again. At some point the questioners also say: that is faint. I will try to indicate staccato on the basis of which considerations we have made the choice as we have. Indeed, in the Prevention Agreement, the questioners themselves referred to the fact that they agreed to extend the smoking ban to include e-cigarettes, but not to include herbal smoke products, such as the bong. This was agreed in the Prevention Agreement with all these social partners, including those organisations that are very strong against smoking. The reason for this choice is that water pipes are often used in fixed locations, intended for visitors aged 18 and over. Visitors to these establishments, like visitors to tobacco specifics shops, are consciously looking for these products. On the basis of this substantive consideration, the participants in the Prevention Agreement said: we do not focus on that. We focus on a smoke-free generation and the visitors of shishalounges are people aged 18 and over. I repeat what I said just now: restrictive measures are already in place in respect of herbal smoke products, those herbal mixtures. There is already an age limit of 18-plus, there is already a ban on advertising and there are already health warnings on packaging. Therefore, restrictive measures have already been taken. Another more practical argument is that if we include herbal smoke products under the smoking ban, which also has broad implications for, for example, the policy of municipalities, i.e. for local policy. Right now, we don't have a visual on that. That is a practical argument, but that is not decisive for me, I say right away. Mr. Chairman. I am going to deal with the amendment to item No 1 at the same time. 8 by Mr Jansen and Mr Van Gerven to bring the herbal smoke products under the functioning of this law. In fact, on the basis of the argument I just gave, I would like to advise against that. It has been deliberately chosen not to include them under this ban now. On the basis of these considerations, I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u39	I would like to make a substantive argument against that. The aim of the Prevention Agreement, and also of the Cabinet, which is widely supported, is a smoke-free generation in 2040. Doesn't the ban on the use of herbal products fit in with this? 'Cause seeing smoking does smoking. These herbal products can also be tempting for children and a reason to start smoking. Why doesn't the Minister take that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u40	As far as I'm concerned, this is really a repeat of moves. I give my argument and say that we have considered various considerations in the search for a smoke-free generation. One is: where does such a thing happen in public space or on public occasions? That's in shishalounges. That's what the smoking ban would apply to. If you declare it applicable, you will target the measure at a location where young people under the age of 18 are not allowed to come at all. If we are aiming for a smoke-free generation, where the idea is "seeing smoking, doing smoking," then it is a crazy idea to think that there are massive young people on those occasions. 'Cause there aren't any.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u41	They're not massive, but they see it and they can be tempted to do so. Coffeeshops are very attractive locations for some young people. I know what the Secretary of State has agreed on, but my point is that it also contributes a little bit to the standard, because it is a tightening up of the standard that we want to set, and that it is easier to control and enforce. Those are two good, valid arguments, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u42	I have heard those arguments in the first place. I do not think that any new arguments will be added. I have put my arguments to the contrary. I do not think there is much more to add, otherwise we will continue to use the same arguments back and forth. That's a hell of a lot of well-leses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u43	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u44	Then I'd choose to do well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u45	That's clear. Mr. Jansen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u46	I agree with that. This also has to do with the fact that I just mentioned four years of examples of what is happening in shishalounges in my first term. There's just smoking. You say there are no people under the age of 18. There are plenty of abuses, even when it comes to age limits. Or would you deny that it might take place in shishalounges as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u47	If I give the impression that they don't get there, that's not true. But the starting point is that they shouldn't be there. These are opportunities where people over 18 can go. Under that age, they shouldn't be allowed in there. That's the policy. I also know the abuses that Mr Jansen is referring to. I also know there are a lot of violations. I also know there's a lot going on. I went with the NVWA one night, and that was the back of the register. That is very frustrating, because it involves very high fines. Apparently we see the mistakes happening over and over again. I have also informed the Chamber earlier that we are studying that now. I would also like to say to Mr Jansen that we are looking at how we can make this enforcement tighter, so that there is more discouragement. Apparently, the imposition of fines is not enough to deter some. I will never deny that there are abuses. There are, and I saw them with my own eyes at a night check-up with the NVWA. By the way, I have great respect for the people who do that and who enter the shishalounges and other smoking venues. There are violations. There's some kind of action going on. There's some kind of verbalization. The question is, how can we give this enforcement another push that really has a more dissuasive effect? I'm working on that and I'll report to the Chamber as soon as I know more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u48	We can see that the discouragement policy is not working. We can see that in the numbers. Then it is much better to take a step further and just say: it is not acted on, it keeps going on and on, every time, year in, year out, so just expand the law. Then you'll be out of it in one go. Because if these people don't want to listen, then you just have to force them to listen. Why don't you want to take that step? That's just a very small step, isn't it? That step is also in line with your own Prevention Agreement, as you want a smoke-free society. Doesn't that make sense?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u49	I try to understand the logic of Mr Jansen's reasoning. In fact, the NVWA has already observed violations. Then there'll be a sanction. If you extend a ban, then there will also be violations that need to be sanctioned. There's already a sanction on violations. It's already happening. It is not the case that the NVWA now sits with its hands in the hair of: when can we or can we not sanction? That's just what they do. I say to the Chamber: we must look at a more criminal enforcement regime, which increases the discouragement of breaking the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u50	The amendment in part No. 8 is therefore not recommended. I would like to look in the direction of Mr Van Gerven, because I promised Mr Van Gerven that I would remind him of something. He remembers now. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u51	Yes, I was back a little later for the first-term response by the Secretary of State. For the Acts, I would like to say that I am referring to the amendment on item No. - Seven of them moved in. - Seven of them moved in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u52	The Van Gerven amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u53	Does the amendment relate to item No. 1 of the motion for a resolution? Seven about the devices?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u54	The amendment in part No. 7 is basically the same as the amendment to item No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u55	There are two further amendments, namely the amendment to item No. Amendment No 8 and Amendment No 8 9.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u56	Mr. Chairman. Before I go into that amendment, I would like to address questions from Mr Renkema van GroenLinks, who rightly calls for targeted action towards young people who are in certain risk groups and groups of young people who smoke more than others. These are, for example, young people who do practical training. He specifically referred to MBO schools. What is the Secretary of State doing to discourage these young people? Yes, we do. On the whole, we are trying to discourage and reduce smoking among young people, so without regard for the individual. We know that, as I think Mrs Kuik said, 75 young people start every day. I think Mr Renkema said the same: 75 young people under 18 start every day. So we're gonna try across the board. This year, however, MBO schools will also have to be non-smoking for all schools, but also for MBO schools. It's regulated by law. In addition, the Helder programme at the School of the Trimbos Institute helps educational institutions to pay attention to smoking, by offering teaching materials. For MBO classes, the lesson package in Charge is specific. This is tailor-made for MBO schools to involve young people very specifically in the packages. In addition, for vmbo classes, extra attention is paid to non-smoking at the Smokefree Challenge. It aims to keep the non-smoking, the non-smoking standard, as long as possible. It's a classroom non-smoking contest, making the deal not to smoke. Finally, there is the Stopstone app for all young people to support them in stopping smoking. Several spokesmen, first Mr Renkema, but also Mrs Kuik and Mrs Hermans, have asked: what steps are you taking in the agreements on the number of locations where smoke products are sold? It concerns the shops where smoke products are offered for sale. What steps are being taken and what are the ambitions of the Secretary of State? The ambitions are broadly expressed in the Prevention Agreement. In summary, research is being carried out into ways of reducing the number of points of sale. In this context, I am talking to supermarkets to bring to the attention of the House the end of tobacco sales. I take every opportunity to do so, and those talks have been going on for some time now. Furthermore, there is an investigation into possible ways of reducing the number of outlets and the side effects of these different options. I expect that research before the summer. If that examination of the possibilities for restricting sales outlets is in place, then I will of course share that with the Chamber and then I will also consider further steps. Then there comes the railroad that Mrs Kuik asked attention to: what about the supermarkets? I am in consultation with the supermarkets on this and I would like to tell the Chamber at the same time as that investigation, which is before the summer, about my talks with supermarkets about their willingness to stop selling smoke products. Mr. Chairman. I think Mrs Kuik also asked: is there the picture that there will be more outlets, more supermarkets? That image is there, but that's got to tell the investigation. There will be a very clear picture of where the points of sale are, and where growth is, in particular. Mr. Chairman. I come to the amendment to item No. 9 by Mr Van Gerven on fittings and appliances. In the latest version of the amendment I have seen, fittings are mentioned as separate parts to address. Let me say first of all that I commend Mr Van Gerven for his fight against the search for loopholes in the law by the tobacco industry. I do have one good announcement for him. For the so-called fittings, which he specifically refers to in his amendment, something has already been settled in the law. They're covered by the e-cigarette rules. The restriction proposed there is therefore already legally regulated. In that sense, that is superfluous. As far as one broad regulation is concerned, in order to reduce all appliances, in order to get rid of the tobacco industry too quickly, I can say to Mr van Gerven: we want the same thing. We want the same thing, namely the tobacco industry in favour of offering all kinds of equipment. The only question is whether Mr Van Gerven's amendment regulates what is intended. I cannot overlook that, as I say openly. In my view, the last thing we want to see in the amendment is things overlooked, so that there are loopholes in the law that the tobacco industry is eager to put on the market. I can add that I am currently preparing legislation to lay down rules on heating appliances that can be used for heating tobacco and tobacco products. For what Mr Van Gerven is trying to do here in an amendment, I am preparing legislation. And I see how complicated that is. I already announced my plans for this in a letter in 2018. It is so complicated that this legislation is also tested for feasibility and enforcement by NVWA. I would like to make an urgent appeal to Mr Van Gerven. We want the same thing, but we also want to do it right. With this amendment, I see the risk that we will not completely close it. Since I am having the NVWA carry out a feasibility test, I do not think it is wise to regulate it very quickly now in the case of amendment, with the risk that we will not completely close it. However well-meaning we really want to see the same thing in that light, I would advise against the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u57	It's good news that we want the same thing, but how are we going to achieve that as soon as possible? I have, of course, seen the letter from the Secretary of State from 2018. We're in 2020 now, so we're not getting anywhere. My proposal would then be: you know what, we'll just introduce that law and if there's a hole in it, we'll adjust it later. That is also a passable path. Is the Secretary of State prepared to go down that road?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u58	Then I would like to say that I prefer to follow the careful path. I'm really making pace right now. I can give you an overview of all the legislation in preparation, including AMVBs, to reduce smoking in all ways. I believe that Mr Van Gerven and I are truly allies in that. I'd like to do the right thing in one go. That bill is in far-reaching... I wanted to say "state of preparation," but that almost sounds like: dissolution. We have made progress in preparing it and I would like to do it right at once. So I'm gonna keep on dissuading: please, do the right thing at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u59	Does the Secretary of State want to mention a term, or could he? Maybe before the summer, is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u60	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u61	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u62	I think I should come back to that in the second term. I'm thinking at the earliest at the end of this year. It also depends on the treatment in the Chamber. This bill was also intended first as a hammer piece. Then we would have finished very quickly. I like that we're talking about it now, but I don't know how fast the treatment is going. I'm getting a cheat sheet now. The bill will be sent to the Chamber after the summer. If the Chamber says "we're gonna blow it," this could get the force of law very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u63	Finally, Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u64	The bill will come to the Chamber after the summer, so this year. Then I have a vague one about the attachments at the e-cigarette. I understand from information from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that it is not yet properly regulated by law. The Secretary of State says it's already taken care of. Is there any way he can go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u65	The recent information I have at my disposal if it is not, I shall come back to it in the second term, but I repeat what I have just said is that the so-called accessories of e-cigarettes, to which Mr Van Gerven refers in his amendment, are already regulated by law. They're covered by the e-cigarette rules. So we want the same thing, and the good news is, that's settled. If it's any different, I promise you I'll return to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u66	Okay, let's wait for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u67	The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u68	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u69	Yeah, I got that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u70	Mrs. Hermans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u71	In short, the Secretary of State said, somewhere between the lines, that I can explain what is going to happen in the area of smoking legislation. I'd like that. So perhaps in response to Mr Van Gerven's interruption, I would ask the Secretary of State to send that to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u72	That's good, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u73	That's good. Let me come back to the actions taken by the Secretary of State to reduce sales points. You mentioned the investigation, as agreed in the Prevention Agreement. I think that's the right order. Today's reports, as well as the CDA's contribution, discussed ahead of time the adoption of legal measures. How does the Secretary of State view this in the light of the order of actions we have agreed on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u74	The complicated thing is that I haven't seen a motion yet, so I'm curious as to what's being asked of me or the cabinet in the operative part. In general, however, I should like to ask Mrs Hermans how do you view legislation? In other words, legislation is one of the ways in which you can enforce it. This also applies to school areas, to school squares, where the schools themselves were allowed to arrange it, and if they do not, then everyone must do it by 1 August and is required by law. You could imagine the same thing at supermarkets, but I'm not saying I want to. It is my preference to talk to supermarkets and it would be best if supermarkets took steps themselves. We're seeing a broad movement. Mrs Hermans herself said it in her first term: the NS and ProRail themselves are taking far-reaching measures. It would be best if those steps were taken from society itself. As far as I'm concerned, I'm calling the supermarkets again from this place: please take that step! Now it may well be that the supermarkets keep looking at each other and that they say: I want a level playing field, I don't want the other one to have a competitive advantage, so I'll just wait until the other one takes a step. Then there will be a stalemate and, so to speak, they will wait for legislation. I do not rule out that this question comes to me, from: arrange it by law, because then we will have an equal playing field for all participants anyway. I would like to promise Mrs Hermans that I will continue the conversation with the supermarkets and that I will give a feedback on the state of play, the perspective that these talks will bring, for the summer, together with the investigation of the number of sales points. I would also like to say to her that in that perspective I outline what these supermarkets are like and what option I find logical and probably from the cabinet to take as an additional step if the supermarkets themselves do not move. Let me make this clear: legislation is not the only solution for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u75	This order makes sense to me. We'll do the research first and then we'll see if there's anything we need and if so, what. I am pleased to hear that the Secretary of State also points out that we must pay attention to and do justice to the things that are happening and the steps that parties themselves are taking. NS, ProRail, I'll just mention them for one last time tonight. And it's not like nothing else happens in other places. I think that we should continue to name it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u76	We are very much in agreement, perhaps totally in agreement. It may well be that the supermarkets eventually say: please arrange it from the Empire, because we keep looking at each other. They may well have the intention to take that step, but they don't want to be the first to do it or the only one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u77	There are a lot of scenarios possible. Then we'll be in all kinds of like-then and hypothetical situations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u78	I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u79	I do not know, and I do not think we should comment on this either. There are a lot of entrepreneurs now incredibly hard at implementing that ban on display. In a lot of places that's already happened. I think that is a good thing. Those stand-alone vending machines that all go away...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u80	Yeah, 13 grand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u81	...there are such developments. We should not pretend that nothing is happening and entrepreneurs are working hard on it, whether they are supermarkets, petrol stations or other shops where tobacco is being sold: a lot is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u82	There's no denying that, Mr. Chairman. Maybe a nice closure for the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u83	Okay. I'm looking at the members. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. We shall proceed to the second term and I would like to give the floor to Mr Jansen of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State says, "I want to go on my way to a smoke-free society." He wants to be consistent in the steps he takes. But in practice, he's not consistent. That is the problem, and that is what we find so contradictory to this story. The Secretary of State is not consistent when he says he wants to make a good blow at once, while he lets the use of herbal mixtures without tobacco in the bong continue for a while. He says, "I want a level playing field." He is not consistent when he then has the idea of letting a shishalounge continue for the time being. And the e-cigarette is the subject of additional research. However, it is already being tackled and shaved under ordinary cigarettes, because it is bad. That is exactly the problem we have with this Secretary of State. His reasoning and his policy are not consistent. This means that we will, in any case, table the amendment together with the SP. Furthermore, we still have doubts as to whether we are going to table a motion. This motion, if any, will deal with the e-cigarette and postpone its decision until the additional examination of the RIVM is available. I have to discuss this motion within the group for a moment. But we've already got her ready and I think we're just gonna file her.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u85	But this is the time to file a motion. There's no such thing as a third term. Yeah, well, sometimes there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u86	Then we'll just file this motion. We propose that legislation be postponed until the additional research on the e-cigarette is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u87	Say it again. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u88	I'll repeat it. In this respect, we will table a motion to postpone legislation until the supplementary examination of the RIVM is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u89	Okay. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u90	I have the motion ready. Would you like to hear it? I'll get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u91	Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u92	I would like to make a point of order, Mr President. If motions are being tabled, I just want to be able to study them. So it seems to me that the motion should now be written out on the spot. I would also like us to be able to get a response straight away from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u93	Mr Jansen states that he has the motion here. So then it's just read and filed, like we always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u94	Mr. Chairman. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that RIVM is still investigating the e-cigarette;]] [[calls on the Government to postpone this amendment until the examination of the effects of the e-cigarette has been completed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35321-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u95	Mr. Chairman. To achieve a smoke-free generation, we need to take action. One of these measures is to reduce the number of outlets. Because it is quite clear that at least a large number of supermarket chains do not stop on their own initiative and that more and more supermarkets are popping up, I submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prevention Agreement agreed to reduce the number of sales points for tobacco products;]] [[Whereas the Chamber adopted the Kuik/Dik-Faber motion (32793, No. 427) has already stated that if the number of tobacco outlets does not fall substantially before 2022, legal measures should be taken to ensure that tobacco products will only be available for sale in specialty stores;]] [[Calls on the Government to engage in talks with (chains of) supermarkets and petrol stations with a view to achieving a rapid reduction in the sale of tobacco products;]] [[calls on the Government to inform these shops that they will be legally obliged to do so if necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35321-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u96	Well, it's actually more of a observation than a question. In fact, the motion that Mrs Kuik is now tabling is exactly the same as the motion of 3 September 2019. I see Mrs Kuik deny this, but the operative part of that earlier motion simply states that if the number of sales outlets has not decreased by 2022, legal measures need to be taken so that tobacco products can only be sold in specialty stores. This is now being said in the same way. But at least thank you for the consistency of the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u97	Let me explain what the extra step is here. The first motion said that the Chamber will deliver its opinion. Now we ask the government to talk and we send the State Secretary out with a stick behind the door, because we see that some supermarkets say very clearly: if there is no legislation, at least we are not going to do anything and we are going to continue selling tobacco products. With this motion we give the Secretary of State a statement from the Chamber and a stick behind the door to really move in here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u98	If the Chamber decides that something must be done, then we assume that the Cabinet will do the same. Anyway, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u99	The difference between speaks out and calls out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u100	Well, something like that, yeah, okay. But we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u101	Mr. Van Gerven, I'm looking at you. That's the case. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u102	Mr. Chairman. We have discussed the amendment to item No. 9. I can't keep doing that, but I'd be happy to withdraw it if I get the Secretary of State's promise that he'll come up with a proposal right after the summer where this is well arranged. I think that's another small step towards achieving the goal: a youth that doesn't smoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u103	I'm gonna take a look at the Secretary of State. You made that commitment, didn't you? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled. I still owe Mr Van Gerven a technical answer, despite the fact that he has withdrawn his amendment, about the fittings. For the Acts, it is perhaps a good thing that it is correct. It is true that attachments to the e-cigarette, as I said in the first term, are arranged. In the case of heaters, to which Mr Van Gerven also wishes to limit itself, it is precisely in the legislative proposal that we are now preparing. I'm sure we'll meet again when we talk about that, unless it turns into a hammer piece. Then there are the two motions. The first motion is by Mr Jansen. It wants to postpone the votes and therefore postpone the whole step. It is clear that I would strongly advise against this motion. We have already agreed on this step in the Prevention Agreement and we know that the e-cigarette is harmful and, if it contains nicotine, it is also addictive. We don't need a new investigation for that. So, dissuade it. The second motion I see as an incentive to go hard on what I am doing, but it also calls for an extension, to have the conversation with petrol stations. I'd like to say I'm going to. I'm still looking at the second part of the operative part. It says "calls on the government to also inform these shops that they will be legally obliged to do so if necessary." Let me look back at the debate on the interruption that I had with Mrs Hermans. With "if necessary" I do see room to opt for a different route than legislation. So, of course, we're going to have that conversation intensively, with the apparent aim of substantially reducing the number of outlets, and I've never made a secret of it to stop selling at supermarkets and petrol stations. If I may point out the motion in such a way that there is room to choose a route other than legislation, then I would like to give this motion the qualification judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u105	I can follow that explanation. The goal is to bring down the number of outlets. If that goes on a voluntary basis through the conversations, with this stick behind the door, that's totally fantastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u106	And that brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-20-tweedekamer-20.u107	The motions tabled and the remaining amendment will be put to the vote on 3 March after the krokusreces. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and wish everyone a good week.
