ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now turn to Mr Sjoerdsma's question on behalf of D66 to the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I warmly welcome, about Dutch Syrians who have escaped detention camps in Syria. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. Is the Minister still asleep? I'm asking because if I were Secretary Grapperhaus, I'd have a stomachache. Fifteen Dutch ISers escaped in Syria. IS'ers who have committed the most horrible crimes there on behalf of that organization. Murders, rapes, keeping sex slaves. People who should be tried for the genocide that took place there. But they're not being tried, in fact, they're avoiding their rightful punishment. Fifteen Dutch women, IS members, escaped. The Kurds have warned. The Americans have warned against it. And what did this minister do? He shrugged his shoulders. Mr. Chairman. Now these potential terrorists are free in Syria. Free, where they can come face to face with the relatives of their victims or their victims themselves. Or they try to return to the Netherlands uncontrolled, under the radar, in the middle of the night, dangerous. That's why I'm asking this minister: does he sleep at night? Six months ago I asked him... Did the minister think it was funny? Okay. I asked him six months ago. Two Dutch women escaped. I've heard that from Kurdish sources. The minister said, "I'll get back to you." I got a note. It didn't say anything. I would like to ask this Minister one more time today: did Dutch women escape in Syria? How many are there? What threat does this pose? And what is the Minister going to do to put these people in captivity and bring them to justice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm still asleep. I wasn't laughing. I greeted one of your members who I haven't seen for a long time because of all the corona restrictions and the like. Mr. Chairman. Escape from the shelter camps in Syria has always been a realistic scenario. It follows from the public figures of the AIVD that the number of Dutch women in the camps has decreased in recent months. All available resources from all partners shall be used to identify and eliminate the risks posed by returners. In order to identify travellers as early as possible, all travellers have been included in the so-called Schengen Information System and a European arrest warrant has been issued against them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u5	To be honest, I'm really stupid that this is the answer. I'll ask the Minister again. How many Dutch women have escaped Kurdish camps, Minister? How much?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u6	I cannot put a certain number on that, but the services have indicated in public figures that at least a dozen women would have escaped these camps over time. There's never a hundred percent certainty on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u7	These are women who have been involved in Islamic State. These are women who may have been involved in murders, rapes and keeping sex slaves. I asked this minister in January and before that if any women escaped. The Minister did not want to go into that at the time. He said, "That can always happen." It can always happen! You should hear it: it can always happen. These are people who may be involved in genocide, so this can't happen. And the minister has been warned, by the Kurds and by the Americans, that it was going to happen and that it was impossible to hold these people. I say it because they either had to be tried there or here in the Netherlands. Instead, they escape there. And what happens here, in the Netherlands? Here the court says: "We are threatening to stop the prosecution of these people. You have six months to solve it." So I ask this Minister: what is he going to do? It's about our security and our state security. How are we going to ensure that these escaped people return and that these people are punished for the crimes they have committed there? I've been asking this for two years. The coalition agreement also states very clearly what this cabinet should do to those involved in genocide. I want to know today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u8	I believe that impunity should be avoided. In many cases, these are people suspected of serious terrorist offences and against whom in many cases the Public Prosecutor has issued an arrest warrant. A number of these people have also been ordered by the Rotterdam Court, as has already been mentioned. On the other hand, the situation is extremely complex and there are different interests that we have to take into account. A balance is made between international relations, the security situation in the region and the security of the individual concerned. I have explained this in detail in your Chamber on a number of occasions. The Supreme Court also recognised that consideration in the judgment it delivered last Friday. The Supreme Court has said that these are legitimate interests, which should be decisive in that consideration. Mr. Chairman. I indicated in the letter to your Chamber of 18 June last that in a comprehensive answer through the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Rotterdam Court, this is an answer to Mr Sjoerdsma's last question that we are currently considering the concrete possibilities and consequences of getting back to these people in individual cases and using joint action. This was also brought about very recently in a consultation with a number of Schengen countries and the United Kingdom, on 3 June last, in which Mr Blok was present.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u9	The Minister says the Supreme Court is right, but the Supreme Court says one thing: the Minister is not bound by a court order to bring these people in. You don't have to. The Supreme Court says that it is up to politics to deal with this problem here. I note here today, not only for the umpteenth time in two years, that there was a risk of escapes, but also that these people have actually escaped and that they can again face their victims and their relatives, that they can come to the Netherlands, uncontrolled, and that no one has been tried here in the Netherlands. That's why I'm asking this minister if he sleeps at night. 'Cause that doesn't sleep for me. I don't sleep from these kinds of security threats. I would ask the Minister to show concrete action. The court asked him to do the same. I ask the Minister what concrete actions he is going to show to ensure that these people are punished for the crimes they have committed and to ensure that they can no longer escape.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u10	In an earlier letter to the Chamber, I have already given quite a detailed account of some of those concrete steps. I'll name one. Mr Blok spoke with the authorities there in Iraq. One of the issues that is at stake is that the women involved are indeed suspected of very serious crimes. Germany has seen in a number of cases among its nationals that women crossing the border at Erbil were immediately detained, detained and tried in Iraq. There is a considerable amount of hiccup there from our legal system, if you will excuse me, an anglicism; a bump, I shall say, since the death penalty still exists in Iraq. That is an example of the steps being taken. In the letter of 18 June, I also referred to contacts with the 'core seven' countries. There are more steps that are being taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mr. Sjoerdsma. Then I will go to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u12	It was another fine piece of theater by Mr. Sjoerdsma. That scared me a little bit. Because if it had been up to D66, maybe two years ago women had already been brought to the Netherlands while the evidence was not yet available to knit around. It was a great concern of ours that these women would simply come out on the street and be able to house in our society. That is what my question is about. We have asked ourselves earlier, together with Mr Van Helvert, how do we ensure that the statements made by the victims, for example by the Jezidis, are properly recorded in order to be able to serve as evidence against these horrible women? I get a very thorough answer, but it is still not clear what we are doing to take those statements. Does the Minister still want to look again at the answers to those questions? For I do not see that in practice those statements are actually being taken up quickly. I think we should do everything we can to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm gonna be very honest about that. At the moment, I am convinced that this is being done very well, but I will immediately give you a note on it. I think it is very important, as I have said here in the Chamber. It is indeed difficult to put into words what atrocities have happened to the Jezidis. So I'll get back to you on that in a note as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u14	When I listen to the Minister, I hear the words and the recognition that there is urgency. But I'm just saying honestly the way it seems to me. I see a high degree of indulgence: yes, it happens. I wonder to what extent the urgency is actually felt. When I hear that a few dozen may have escaped, I think: if it is urgent, what steps has the Netherlands taken to ensure the imprisonment of the persons concerned, probably war criminals? What steps has the Netherlands taken to prevent them from escaping?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u15	The first point is that I am throwing away. The fact that I may have a somewhat staggering way of talking has to do with the fact that I do not believe that the rule of law is very well served in all kinds of emotional actions. I think you are getting the furthest, even in this extremely harsh dossier, by setting out the arguments and taking the right actions. On the second point, I agree with Mr Bishop. Indeed, we are also talking to those other countries about how we can ensure that we really keep an eye on what is happening there. There is intensive cooperation between the various intelligence services, including from other countries. Again, this is an extremely dangerous area. I am not only assured of this by the services, but I am also heartily made clear by the NGOs I have spoken with. Again, that means that you can only look at what is happening on the ground through professional services. I can assure you that we are on top of that with great urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u16	I shall therefore devote our second question to it. Measures have been taken, there is talk, and so on, and so on, and so on. All very nice, but it doesn't stop a few dozen from escaping. Surely these measures would have been far from sufficient? Is it clear where those concerned are now and what actions are being taken to restore them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u17	As I said in my opening sentence, escape has always been a very realistic scenario. It would be fine to give your Chamber another confidential technical briefing on what that area looks like at the moment and where there are all kinds of different parties. You know from public sources that the progress of the Turkish army last September has only made things considerably more unclear. Even if you have excellent services, as far as I am concerned, we have them, both the AIVD and the STUDY, then it is not always possible to have a complete view of where people are. That's one. Two. It is not easy to prevent people from escaping these camps, because in the end those camps are run by the Kurdish liberation organizations, to name but a few, and not by us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u18	First Mrs Buitenweg and then Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius and Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u19	I got a little dumb anyway. The minister says with an air............................................................................................................................................................... But I remember many debates here which warned against these escapes and the fact that women who may have committed crimes are getting away with their punishment. The Minister kept saying "no, those women can best be tried there," as if it were a fact that they were going to be tried there. I think this is a slider, which is very easy to take off. But it bothers us. Those women have escaped and the big question is: how can we do justice to the victims? My question to the Minister is: what happens to the evidence that may have been collected by the Kurds? We always pretend we don't have diplomatic ties, so we can't control the tradition of these women either. But are we going to work together to collect evidence? Or is the Minister too hesitant for that, because he wants to keep his hands clean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u20	Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I have never said anything other than I say now, namely that escape is a realistic scenario. Something else is that we have often exchanged the opportunity with your Chamber to try them there. I understand very well, moreover, that the people on the ground say: we think primarily that these people should be tried here. Our parents and our grandparents would also have found it very strange if the people who committed war crimes here in the Netherlands during the Second World War had been tried somewhere in America. I think we would have had a problem with that, too. To make a long story short: we are of course constantly watching how you can keep an eye on these women. I have already said something about this and how we can ensure that justice finally takes its course. I keep saying that, but with the limitations I've indicated. It is not so much that the Supreme Court agrees with us, but the Supreme Court says: we understand that these are very difficult but important interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mrs Yeşilgöz-Zegerius.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u22	Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u23	No, no, no...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u24	But Madam President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u25	... no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u26	...he didn't answer the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u27	You did not answer Mrs Buitenweg's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u28	I asked if there would be any cooperation on handing over evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u29	About working together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u30	Yeah, absolutely. Maybe I didn't make that explicit, but we're also constantly looking at how we understand that that's, in particular, the Public Prosecutor's Office. We can get as much evidence as possible. Indeed, we sometimes run into limitations when it comes to how to get a trade-out of certain evidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u31	The concern expressed here by D66 about our security is, in my view, anything but credible, because this is a party that would like to bring these terrorists here. These terrorists have knowingly travelled to Syria to commit themselves to a battle that is fully aimed at destroying everything we stand for here. I assume the Minister is not making any attempt to bring these people here. I have one question. I would like to know how we will prevent these terrorists from sneaking into our country. How do our security services work with the countries around us to prevent these people from ending up in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u32	This cooperation, of course, looks at the Schengen Information System but also at the interests of all countries. In criminal law, a number of countries do not have the rules we have with regard to terrorist offences and their involvement. Sweden is an example of this. These are countries that only have an even greater interest in ensuring that people when they come near a Schengen border are really on the radar. I have said many times that everything is being done to ensure that this is done properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u33	There is a bit of cowardice in the coalition, because Mr Sjoerdsma is being wronged. Because we have also followed this debate. It has been a constant discussion about the question: what are you doing right? But the cabinet constantly said, the minister said, "We're not going to bring them here, but at least we're going to make sure they stay there or get tried." Neither one of them is true. My question to the Minister is very specific. It has always been denied that we knew exactly who was where and now the Minister says: I am very well informed, because all the security services know exactly where they are. It can't be both true, so I'd like to know who they are and where they are. That's my first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u34	I want to get rid of something first. That cheating ratty, is it aimed at me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u35	No...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u36	I hope not, because I would really regret that, because we always have a good debate, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u37	We've got a whole week to go, huh? A little nice to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u38	It could also be an interesting oral question in itself. It is a valid point, however, made by Mrs Kuik. It is not so much a question as a question by Mr Bishop that I think our services know exactly where everyone is. That's impossible in that area with all its misconceptions. However, our services, in cooperation with services from other countries, ensure that they have the best possible information position. We must also, of course, ensure that we have the best possible information position when it comes to the borders of the Schengen area. But this also applies: we must realise that this is never 100%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u39	And with that we can only conclude that we are potentially at a very high risk, also because we know that borders are not 100% closed. Which brings me to my second question. There's a few dozen of them now. The Kurds have repeatedly warned us that they will no longer catch people, that this is becoming increasingly difficult. So when are tens of hundreds and maybe even more? What actions are we going to take if there are more and more? That scenario seems very real and not imaginary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u40	I have talked about at least a dozen. But apart from that, the three criteria used by the cabinet remain valid. I will not repeat them here, because I was once addressed by one of your MPs: not again. Mrs Kuik now says that is not the answer to her question. The answer to her question is that it is not excluded that more women will escape over time. I said: that is a real risk, which we must take into account. As far as I'm concerned, people suspected of being involved in war crimes must not be punished. That's really my starting point. In the meantime, I know that I have the limitations in those three criteria that I will not mention again. Those limitations are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u41	Mr Sjoerdsma does, of course, have a point. He has been par excellence and has warned that this could happen. Now it happens. We don't know how many more women are planning to run. These are in Idlib. That's what we hear, but for the same reason they had come to the Netherlands. What's this cabinet gonna do? Because you have to judge them or in the Netherlands or try them there. But we cannot wait with our hands behind our back until the next ten, twenty Dutch women either travel to the Netherlands or become active there again. So are we going to encourage the Kurds, along with a coalition of other parties, to look at it now, I understand the complexity of whether or not we can try them there? What is the Minister doing about this in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u42	As has been said, Mr Blok is talking to the other countries about what is called the 'core seven' in order to see how one can somehow get them back in individual cases. That really focuses on the cases where we say: they are suspected of being involved in very serious war crimes. In any case, the Netherlands has always said: if people report to the Erbil consulate, they will be immediately transferred to the Netherlands by the Marechaussee. Mr Blok has also been assured by the Iraqi authorities that the majority of Dutch women involved in this case at the Supreme Court will receive a laissez pass through that country. In the meantime, we'll continue these conversations. It is clear to you that it is not something for which there is a ready-made solution, but we must continue to work on it as a matter of urgency. I would like to stress that once again in the direction of Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-30-tweedekamer-3.u43	Thank you.
