ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u1	I will reopen the debate for a short third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u2	I shall give the floor to Mrs Sent in the third term. Mr Van Pareren has waived the floor. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the political groups of the SP, GroenLinks and the Party for Animals, I, as spokesperson of the PvdA, would like to take the opportunity to ask the Secretary of State a number of questions about the letter she sent us yesterday afternoon. It indicates how it will implement a number of motions. We welcome the attention that Mr Ester has drawn to the entry into force of measures on Wajong and study. He asked the State Secretary, by means of a motion, to remove the obstacles existing in the current system of education as soon as possible. In her letter, the Secretary of State explains in great detail what creative solution she has found in order to achieve this prior to the start of the next academic year. We are pleased with that. Mr. Chairman. A number of motions have called for attention to be paid to the resilience of the current legislative proposal. In response to Mrs Stienen's motion, the Secretary of State states that it concerns a competence which she does not currently have. It proposes to include a change in the SZW Collection Act 2021 in order to create the power to extend the period of the guarantee amount by general measure of governance. In fact, the Secretary of State deviates from a higher one by means of a lower regulation. However, such a construction is at odds with constitutional rules and principles of law, for example with the primacy of the legislator derived by the Polak Committee from the principle of legality, which means that certain parts of the legislative complex, in particular the main elements, are reserved for the parliamentary legislator. Think also of the principle of the hierarchy of standards and the related principle that rules take precedence over the lower ones higher in the hierarchy. This principle of "lex superior derogat legi inferiori" makes our political groups critical of the proposed legislative amendment to create the power to extend the period of the guarantee amount by general measure of governance. By means of an amendment, the House of Representatives granted an extension of the transitional period for the amount of the guarantee to one year. However, there was no support for Mr Stoffer's amendment extending the transitional period for the amount of the guarantee to two years. We therefore support the Schalk motion for urgent legislation to this end and do not support it in order to make this possible by means of a general measure of governance. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State points out in her letter that it is not intended that the new rules on income support without transitional regime could lead to a lower amount of income support. The fact is that the legislative proposal before us represents a deterioration for a number of groups. A lot of changes were made in the debate last week. I would like to draw particular attention to those who are losing their jobs before the start of harmonisation in 2021. If they do not find work before 2021, they cannot claim the guarantee scheme. Mr Van Pareren has tabled a motion on this subject, which has been given a ruling by the State Secretary. In this motion we read that the proposed harmonisation of the Wajong means that Wajongers are falling in income. That's what the motion says. In this motion we also read the request to compensate these Wajangers. The political groups of the SP, GroenLinks, the Animal Party and the Labour Party would like to hear how the Secretary of State will implement this motion. The Secretary of State writes that she is setting up a guarantee amount to compensate Wajangers who would otherwise decline, in accordance with Mr Van Pareren's motion. However, that guarantee amount is already part of the law. Mr Van Pareren's motion also calls for no-one to go backwards. Because we have exchanged in this Chamber that there are indeed groups going backwards. So, if we understand the Secretary of State's reading correctly, she considers this motion to be superfluous. But that's not our lecture. Hence the request to speak with her in this third term. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for her explanation in the letter to UWV on the feasibility of the legislative proposal before us. It reassures us: steps have already been taken, but they are not irreversible. I am also pleased that the Secretary of State is prepared to take measures for the working group and because of the entry into force of the present legislative proposal does not have the opportunity to enter into the continuing working arrangements, in accordance with Mrs Oomen's point. In the opinion of our groups, the Secretary of State meets a small group in the most minimal way. But above all, we look forward to her response to our remaining questions in response to her letter. With seven seconds to go!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u5	(NL) Mr President, sometimes it is a customary thing to do with my length of the microphone, but I'm not doing it right now. Mr. Chairman. We had a good debate last week: we exchanged views and expressed opinions. A letter from the Secretary of State has then been sent, in which she refers to the motions and also to their implementation. You can study with a Wajong benefit already. The 12-month guarantee. You keep what you have until you retire if you stay on the same level. But the concern of all of us was that those 12 months in this corona period might be too short, because the labour market now looks different. You're gonna monitor it, and you're gonna make adjustments next year if you need to. I would like to say to Mrs Sent once again that I asked them to do something before 2021, 2022 and 2023, even for the group that was not guaranteed, but expected to be eligible for the extended working arrangements, which would give them the right to wml. Exactly those three years I mentioned. I would ask Mrs Sent to look into that again. With regard to the commitments made in the letter, I note that the reflection of this House has led to the necessary movement in this bill of law, on which we will be voting shortly. I would like to thank not only my colleagues, but also the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u6	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I call Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. In my speech in the first term, I said that, while the proposal before us seeks to harmonise the existing Wajong Forest, this harmonization law unintentionally ensures that a number of Wajongers fall between shore and ship, without having any influence on them themselves. I have noted that the number of people who will be financially disadvantaged after the introduction of this law cannot at present be determined by the Ministry. From answers from the Secretary of State in her letter of yesterday, 25 May young Members, to questions asked by various political groups, I understand that through UWV she will respond to a number of specific and undesirable situations by adjusting Article 8.8 Wajong by including this amendment in the Collecting Act SZW 2021. It remains to be seen that this legislation, and not the current corona conditions, will result in a significant financial downturn for a significant group of Wajongers. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats considers this unacceptable and we have therefore tabled a motion for a resolution aimed at remedying this undesirable situation. Now that the Secretary of State has indicated in her letter that she is leaving Mr Van Pareren's social motion for a resolution to the Chamber, and thus actually endorses the omission in the legislation noted by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, we have two further questions to the Secretary of State. Can the Secretary of State indicate what amount is involved in the compensation provided for by the Van Pareren motion for a resolution for Wajangers who are declining in income? If not, why not? Can the Secretary of State indicate, if the Van Pareren motion is adopted by a majority of this Chamber, by what legislation or discretionary power will it grant and distribute this compensation to the relevant Wajangers? Finally, the Go Group would like a clear explanation from the Secretary of State on how to implement exactly compensation legislation, which is to be implemented through the adaptation of Article 8.8 of the Wajong, in the Collecting Act SZW 2021. We look forward to the answers to our questions with interest. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats continues to believe that the shortcomings identified in the present legislative proposal can only be repaired by means of a novelle. That is why we have tabled our motion. The repair of the legislation through the implementation of the Van Pareren motion is not possible. Is that a game of cartel mist? We therefore call on the government once again to start the repair of this law as soon as possible, although it may be annoying for the Secretary of State that it cannot attach its name to this legislation during the current term of office. Well, that's how she is. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Are there any other Members who would like to speak in the third term? No. I'll take a look at the Secretary of State and suspend for a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u9	I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Finance - Taxation and Tax Administration to the Upper House. I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today on this bill and thank you for the contribution of Members in third term. A number of questions remain as a result of the letter I sent following last week's debate. I would like to start with Mrs Sent, who mentioned a number of things. She said, and I thank her for that, that she is pleased that this is being dealt with. I am glad that she made that comment. She also raised the question of how I would arrange for a certain authority to be established under national law and whether an AMvB would be the right figure for that. I would like to point out that I want to create a legal basis for making the AMvB so that we can properly go through the parliamentary process and discuss with each other what that looks like. Furthermore, in the context of the current crisis, we have also taken a number of measures at AMvB. I refer to the Tozo, but also to the reimbursement of their own contribution to parents who use childcare. That makes this, you might say, a better way, because it is really about creating a legal basis for that. She also raised a number of points concerning Mr Van Pareren's motion. Mr De Vries also referred to this. I gave the motion judgment, Chamber, because I noticed in the debate last week, but also in the public debate, how important it is to show, to underline that this law does not make anyone worse. With this law, I have also argued it last week for a large group of people for whom the Wajong system is now negative if they want to work, taking a step forward. This law is not an explicit austerity, but it aims to improve the balance between income security and participation so that people can make a step forward. Then you can see that a number of people, due to the complexity of the current legislation, could perhaps deteriorate in a situation. Therefore, a guarantee scheme has been created for them in the law. I have noticed that, in the social debate, but also last week in this Chamber, it was unclear or difficult at a number of times to see that compensation actually exists. Mr Van Pareren's motion underlines this, shows it and stresses it. That is why I gave the motion judgment Chamber, because I found it very relevant in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u11	Mr. Van Gurp. You need to press the foot pedal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u12	I thought I wasn't supposed to touch anything. For the sake of clarity, Mr Van Pareren's motion states that a number of groups in the proposal before us suffer from significant financial disadvantages. The Secretary of State says, "I'll give that motion judgment Chamber." At the same time, she says: I can do that because the current legislative proposal has been so well regulated through the guarantee scheme that no one is going backwards. Which one is it? Are groups going down considerably now and are we going to fix that? And then we're gonna ask, how do we do that and how much does that et cetera cost? Or does the law provide that no one is going backwards and Mr Van Pareren's motion is not correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u13	Last week we had a wide exchange of views on this motion, including the Members themselves and also with the author of the motion itself. I had an exchange of views with him myself. He then indicated how he intended the motion and I also responded in the letter to what I consider important in the motions that have been tabled. Similarly, Mr Ester's motion and Mrs Stienen's motion, as well as Mrs Oomen's appeal and the sharing of the call made by Mr Kox. I responded to these motions in the letter and showed what I think the added value of it is, also looking at how this law was designed. Due to the complexity of the current legislation, it is possible for many people, but not for certain groups in certain situations. They could go backwards. A guarantee scheme has therefore been set up and laid down by law. I also just said that I think that's important. There's a lot of worry about that. It has also been said a number of times in this Chamber that people are getting worse. That is not the case. As I understand it, Mr Van Pareren has put this motion firmly in motion. That's why I gave that motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u14	For the clarity of decision-making: the motion is sympathetic because it expresses a social concern. But the motion is not really necessary, because the law already provides that what is stated in the motion, namely that there are groups that are going backwards on it, is not so. Is that your answer, briefly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u15	For the comprehensive answer, I should, to a large extent, repeat last week's debate. There was also a link in the motion with the crisis we are currently in. That was also what several Members referred to, such as Mrs Stienen and Mr Ester. It is precisely by including that element in the motion and saying that a great deal is happening now, in crisis time, that it is particularly important to show that no one should go backwards. That is also what I have just pointed out in the direction of Mrs Sent. In concrete terms, this also means creating a power to adopt a crisis-support measure. Other measures we are currently taking in the context of the crisis also contribute to this. Looking over all that, and through the link with both the bill and the crisis time, I've given the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u16	Thank you. Can I ask Members to limit the debate to the questions that have now been asked in addition? Otherwise, we will indeed repeat last week's debate. We can do that at the end of the night or something, but we didn't plan for that. This is a short third term, with a number of specific questions from three of the speakers. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u17	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The problem is, of course, in the interpretation. In simplicity the master shows himself. Mr Van Pareren's motion is simple and therefore masterful, you could say: I note that people are going backwards and I am ordering the government to compensate those people. That's in the motion and that's all. That's the essence. In the motion I have tabled, I am putting it into practice, and I ask the Secretary of State to address negative effects for Wajongers with medical hours limitation, to maintain previous commitments on the continued working arrangements, as has been promised to Mrs Oomen.................................................................................................................................................................................................... The special thing is that the Secretary of State is dissuading my motion, which specifies the decline that the Van Pareren motion refers to, while embracing the other. Two souls in one breast is already a complicated thing, but this can't be. You can't embrace one and reject the other. That is why the question remains whether the Secretary of State shares the view that its law makes people suffer, and that they must be compensated, as the Van Pareren motion asks. Or does she say: the Van Pareren motion asks for something that is not necessary, because the law guarantees that no one is going backwards? It takes a little longer, Mr. Chairman, but this is the crux of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u18	I see a brief reply from the Secretary of State. Then we'll vote on these motions. You can then vote in favour or against. We saw them explained last week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u19	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox's motion consisted of four elements. I'd almost say four souls in one chest. I have per element indicated what I can do anyway, although I have indeed had to discourage the motion. Let me say this. I wrote a lot about this in the letter and we also discussed it in detail last week. I would like to say a few words about this. It must be very clear to people who use the Wajong that if the situation arises on 1 January when the law is passed, they will not deteriorate. To underline that, that motion was tabled. At least that is how I understood Mr Van Pareren. I gave that motion judgment, Chamber, because of the social debate and the content of the questions that were asked, and because some groups are getting worse because of the law, after which they will indeed be given a guarantee scheme in conjunction with the crisis measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u20	One short, final interruption, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u21	There's nothing else I can do. The Secretary of State says she shares the elements of the motion I tabled. In the first point, I would ask the Secretary of State to ensure that within the framework of the law, the negative effects for Wajongers with a medical time restriction are addressed, but in particular that part she advised against. We have discussed this point, Madam Secretary of State, from January until now. About that point. That's the most jumping point. If the Secretary of State says she wants to exclude this point, then we are talking about backwardness and that is covered by the Van Pareren motion. I can't see it any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u22	I have also indicated that the Wajong is actually a law in which the diversity of the people who make use of it is so great that you cannot say: it should not really matter with what limitation you enter that law. We want a law that helps us take a next step. People with medical hours limitation who currently use a number of schemes, such as the Breman scheme or the change in size, could deteriorate in specific situations. There is indeed a guarantee for this. So the moment the law comes into force, the UWV is going to see what's most beneficial to you, that which you now have or that which you would get under the new law. That amount is up to your pension, if you told Mrs Oomen that you are right to have the job you have and continue to work. And if you lose that job, then we have the guarantee scheme that comes after the WW and which we are also able to support in crisis time, Mrs Stienen's motion and Mr Schalk's motion. For that, I'd like to come back to the Chamber with a law amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u23	Finally. Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Should I conclude from this discussion that the Secretary of State considers the motion superfluous? The Secretary of State states in her letter that no one is going backwards and that there is a guarantee scheme. At the same time, Mr Van Pareren's motion clearly states that there is a threat of a severe financial reduction for vulnerable groups. It's not even a threat, it gives a serious financial discount. Either the motion is superfluous, or the motion is factually incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u24	This morning there was another letter in one of the newspapers of someone using a Wajong scheme. He said: it may be different for me, but I stand up for other people, because they are getting worse because of this law. That was the time for me to think: this motion is really important, because it shows what happens when the law is passed with this motion: if you go backwards, there is a guarantee amount which does not. That's why I gave the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u25	Mrs. Sent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u26	Finally. If that is the reading of the Secretary of State and if this motion gets a majority, then we invite the Secretary of State very warmly for a follow-up discussion on how it will implement this motion, if it really shows that people are falling behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u27	If the motion is passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-5.u28	I thank the Secretary of State. I'm here to deal with the bill. We had already decided to vote on the legislative proposal and the motions for resolutions tabled.
