ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the debate on the trade agreement between the EU and Canada, CETA, Chambers 35154 and 35155. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister and the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Diks as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. But I see Mr Jetten standing at the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u2	I actually have a point of order. I see that Mrs van den Hul is present on behalf of the Labour Party. Of course, I would like to have a debate with her on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, but in recent months it was Mr Asscher, who, on Twitter, suddenly turned the position of the PvdA from front to front, and former Minister Ploumen, who over the last few days has taken the time for all the media to explain why the PvdA is now suddenly opposed to this treaty. It would be a good thing for them to take part in this debate, so that we can discuss with them why the PvdA has turned to this point of view. So I would suggest that we suspend for five minutes. This will enable Mr Asscher or Mrs Ploumen to join this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u3	I like to go along with that, because it is of course bizarre and cowardly that both Asscher and Ploumen are not here. Mrs Ploumen has already negotiated the entire treaty. In 2016 she was very enthusiastic. So I would say, Mrs Ploumen, get to work and come to a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u4	Mr President, support. We hear Mrs Ploumen talking about CETA everywhere on the radio stations, but not in the Chamber. That's not appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mrs Ploumen said at the time: 'The treaty with Canada must become the norm'. I think that is a fine statement, so I wholeheartedly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u6	I see you, Mrs van den Hul, but perhaps it would be good to ask everyone first what they have to say on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u7	Each party is about its own delegation, and I know Mrs Van den Hul as a very competent colleague who can bring the PvdA position to the fore. No support.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u8	If this is going to be the tone of the rest of the debate, then we can still do it! I think it is an absurd proposal. The Labour Party will decide for itself who to delegate. I await Mrs Van den Hul's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u9	Mrs Van den Hul is a very capable debater, so let us not question her skills here. And the question is not why the Labour Party has received other insights, the question is why CDA, D66 and VVD have not received them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u10	That will come later, Mrs Ouwehand!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u11	Mr President, no support for the proposal. I await Mrs Van den Hul's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u12	To avoid any misunderstandings, I'm replacing Chris Stoffer. That's because he's with the POCOB, the interrogation committee. Otherwise we will have questions about that too, of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u13	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u14	I understand colleagues' questions very well, but formally a group is about its own delegation. I therefore do not support the request.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u15	If we have to invite the chairman of the group every time a party does something other than what it says, then we can delete the entire group of the VVD. Then all we have is group chairmen' debates. I believe that each party itself is responsible for the delegation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u16	I must disappoint the gentlemen of the coalition parties: I am the spokesman for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation on behalf of the Labour Party. That is why I am doing this debate today. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u17	All right, let's get started. Mr. Jetten?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u18	Mr President, very briefly. Mr Weverling used the words: 'It is bizarre and cowardly that Mr Asscher is not here'. Then in the boxes right behind me there was a deep sigh. He didn't just choose those words. Those are the words that Lodewijk Asscher himself used when he asked for a debate on the Climate Agreement and was angry that some colleagues from other groups were not here. I made the request just now, because two colleagues are making the effort to announce in all the media that the PvdA, which in any case negotiated this agreement itself, is against it, whereas those colleagues are not going to bother to debate it with us here in Parliament. I find that disappointing, but nevertheless I would like to start the debate with Mrs van den Hul in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u19	I now give the floor to Mrs Diks on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. GroenLinks is in favour of a trade agreement with Canada. I can see surprised looks, provided that it is green, sustainable and fair. Our diplomatic ties with Canada are good and have a rich history. It is partly thanks to the bravery and sacrifices of Canadian soldiers that we are living in Europe today in freedom. International trade has an important function in increasing the prosperity that can be shared over humanity on earth. Moreover, the greater the interdependence, the interdependence, of economies in the world, the more importance there is in maintaining international peace. GroenLinks would have liked the pursuit of stability and peace to be an intrinsic goal of humanity, but history has unfortunately shown that superpowers in the world will almost always sail the course that makes the most money. International trade is therefore the proverbial root by which we can move humanity towards peace and humanity. This calls for the conclusion of trade agreements. That is why GroenLinks, a party that does not see economic growth as an end in itself, also sees the added value of trade. Unfortunately, trade does more than just ensure stability and cooperation. It also increases the use of raw materials around the world, leading to increased production and consumption, especially when trade agreements make trade in polluting products cheaper. It then contributes to the emission of harmful substances into the atmosphere and to the depletion of the earth. In addition, trade leads to increased competition on, for example, labour costs and the demands we make on animal welfare, health and environmental protection. Those who produce the cheapest have the largest market share, with almost always the result that multinationals win and that workers, workers, animals, nature, environment and climate lose. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the trade agreement before us today, CETA. In recent months, I have heard many people say that CETA is a progressive agreement, a golden standard for subsequent treaties. If that is the case, we have a big problem, because CETA is extremely disappointed at all the points that GroenLinks considers important for the future. It is a treaty like almost all the other trade agreements that the EU has concluded so far, mainly aimed at economic gain, even at the detriment of humans, animals, nature, the environment and climate. Thus, there are major disadvantages to CETA. I am therefore taking the time for my speech, in the hope that there will be colleagues, including new colleagues, who will be persuaded by good arguments, even if only a few. Because next week, everyone in this house will have to make an important assessment. Mr. Chairman. Let me start with the animals. It is often said that Canada and the Netherlands are very similar countries in terms of culture and social attitudes, but that is certainly not the case in all areas. In terms of animal welfare, Canada is really very different from Europe. There are not exactly the same standards of animal welfare as here. As an animal, you're a lot worse off in Canada. Let me give you some examples. Animals may still be branded in Canada. Since 2004, the EU has banned the sale of cosmetics tested on animals for good animal welfare reasons. In Canada, you can still do that. Within the EU, cows can be transported for up to 24 hours and should receive water and food every 8 hours. In Canada a cow can be transported for 36 hours in a long transport of cattle and there are no requirements for water, food and rest. There are animals that literally freeze in the icy Canadian cold during long transports. Part of the young stock doesn't even arrive alive at the destination. They are already dying of cold, stress or malnutrition along the way, all because of the far too long travel time. Within the EU, the keeping of sows in steel cages has been prohibited since 2006. Sows shall be given at least 2.25 m of movement space. They live in groups. There are rules in Europe for healthy nutrition and drug use. In Canada it is still permitted and customary for sows to spend their whole lives in such a steel cage, except during birth and teats. That's torture. And I say that from experience, because I'm a farmer's daughter. We used to have pigs when they were piglets, even in such a steel cage, but that was only for four or five days. That was just to protect the piglets, not to torture the pig. Canada wants to do something about these dieron-friendly boxes, but not until 2024. The feasibility of this deadline also seems very uncertain. Mr. Chairman. That is inexhaustible cruelty to animals, which we should not want on our European plates. And then I haven't even mentioned food safety and the administration of hormones in animals. Dairy and meat that Canada can export to the EU must be hormone-free. That is a good thing, because the practice of administering hormones to animals in order to grow them as quickly as possible before slaughter is reprehensible. I am not even talking about the possible effects of these hormones on the health of the consumer who eats the meat. However, the problem is that due to all kinds of new developments in technology, these hormones can hardly be detected in meat that arrives here. The same applies to crops genetically modified, for example, with CRISPR-Cas technology. Our farmers are not allowed to do that. And we can't check that apples that come to the border here have been treated with CRISPR-Cas. This is also endorsed by the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation and the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u21	I've also read that it's getting harder for gmo. We kept an extensive round table on that hormone meat. We understand there are 36 Canadian companies certified from day one. I sympathise, and I understand Mrs Diks' reasoning that we need to monitor this very carefully, because we do not want hormone meat in Europe. But to say that this trade agreement will lead to hormone meat in Europe! Then I ask Mrs Diks: did she receive the information about those 36 certified companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'm sure I got that. However, as I have just said, as a result of all kinds of new technologies, we can no longer verify whether meat has been tampered with. You may see in the cow that something has happened, but we do not see that cow here in Europe. All we see is the steak coming this way. The problem is that CETA does not look at the production process, but only at the final product that ultimately arrives in Europe. If hormones have been tampered with there to pump animals up to get them ready for slaughter quickly, then smart technologies will ultimately prevent us from checking whether that has happened. That gives an unfair level playing field. So I'm surprised you're standing up for that as a coalition party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u23	I also have concerns; I will tell you that in my own contribution. But then that must be real concerns and then Mrs Diks has to tell the whole story. We've both been in the round table. We both heard the stories. I checked that again. I checked to see if that's true. It's not like we're just gonna check for hormone meat at the border. There has been an exchange between the European Union and Canada. That was a whole process, because the WTO was in conflict. He said that you can't, because you can't start selecting at the border. But in the end, the deal has become to allow only certified companies to deliver to Europe at farm level. So the story doesn't add up that we're just gonna look at the border. No, we just asked Canada to check at farm level whether there is hormone meat. There are two production levels, two separate production lines of hormone meat for Canada and non-hormone meat for export to Europe. I hope Mrs Diks did get that. Then we have the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u24	I got that. The point I make here is that many new technologies do not even allow us to check whether Canada is doing well. If we see here that the NVWA is already barely able to monitor properly in the Netherlands, a relatively small country, what is happening on farms, in slaughterhouses, during cattle transports and so on, how are we going to ensure that, far beyond the Atlantic, we have a good picture of how people produce in Canada? In that sense, I think that you attach great importance to monitoring and enforcement, because of course you do not want there to be any chance that this kind of meat could ever be exported to Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u25	Finally, Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u26	That is a good point from Mrs Diks. She's worried about that, and so do we. Then all you have to do is look at how you're gonna address those concerns. We may be able to table a motion on that together. Perhaps we should increase the audits on these farms and the track and trace so that we from Europe, from the European Commission, constantly monitor what is happening with these 36 companies and whether or not hormones are actually applied to cattle. Let's bet on that. I agree with you that it is becoming increasingly difficult to do it at the border, but let's see if we can control it deeper in the production chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u27	That sounds like a very nice proposal in itself. I understand that in the meantime the Christian Union has become ahead of CETA and has been given the task of getting parties against it with good examples on the right side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u28	Mr President, on a point of order. I really hope that Mrs Diks wants to have the debate and not with all frames and spins, because she has already done so with Radar. I'm not going along with that. I did a simple hand-out: will you come with me, will you think to see if we can get those audits done at farm level? You shouldn't run away from the question, because I find that faint.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u29	I do not like to faint at all, because I have low blood pressure and eat a lot of salt. However, we are now discussing food safety. I agree with you that if there are possibilities for better monitoring, we should do so. Of course we will support that. It is not, however, so much so, and I still have a lot of lyrics to say that I am only concerned about hormone meat. It is not that we are only concerned about that point, because there are so many other points. The moment you could better monitor what's happening on a farm like this, I'm not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u30	I think Mrs Diks and I are in complete agreement that we can do a lot better in terms of animal rights in Canada. This also applies to large parts of the European Union, and even in our own country we can bring animal welfare to much higher standards. We have no difference of opinion on that. I actually have a very simple question when I listen to Mrs Diks' speech: do you trust Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u31	Well, to a certain extent. Let me put it that way. Of course, it's kind of a crazy question, speaking of frames. Then what's Canada? Are those the people who live there? Are those the animals that live there? Is it the indigenous people? Is it nature? That is, of course, a question you cannot ask in this way. So perhaps you'd better clarify what you actually want to know about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u32	It's a very relevant question. We are talking today about international trade, the context in which we operate as a country in an international world. Nowadays, we have very few allies. We have China and Russia, which are an economic and military danger to us. We've got Trump, starting trade wars. Canada, which is a bit of the Scandinavia of North America, is still the only place we can regard as an ally. So we want to make agreements on how we can deal with each other in a decent way. CETA, the free trade agreement between Europe and Canada, is therefore a set of agreements on how to ensure that we manage trade properly. You will not be able to supervise every farm in Canada with the Dutch inspection. You will then have to make agreements with Canada that they will organise that supervision in a good way. So my question is very simple: do you trust the Canadians that we can make agreements with them and that they will keep those agreements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u33	In that sense, if you ask so specifically, I trust the Canadian government. I assume that if they stand for something, they will also do so properly. But as in the Netherlands, you also have in Canada of course entrepreneurs who confess with the mouth of everything, but ultimately do not get in the company to enforce the right rules. I just turned this in. The conditions that are taking place in Dutch slaughterhouses are truly appalling. We also have a Dutch government and I trust them too. Meanwhile, pigs are cooked alive. That's what I'm worried about. I understand that countries can make major agreements with each other. I'd say "tralala." I understand. It is, of course, a question of converting these agreements into regulations that are also respected. There's nothing on paper that's gonna do me any good. Animals that are tormented have nothing to do with paperwork.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u34	It's almost impossible to follow. It goes from Dutch abattoirs to the trust or not of the Canadian government. The point in this debate is: are we, as the Netherlands, still able to make international agreements with our allies on how we act with each other? This convention is not the solution to all animal welfare problems. We agree. Much remains to be done, but it is precisely thanks to this free trade agreement that the Netherlands and Canada are on the table and you can address each other on abuses and you can see that it is already leading to results. The Canadians are working on handling the cattle transports. They are dealing with the exhaustion and dehydration of animals. That is because we want to conclude a free trade agreement with them. It is naive, I say to Mrs Diks, to think that the world will get better if we do not conclude a trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u35	I'm not that bad of the you-bowls, but I'm gonna throw this one in now anyway. Speaking of naive: if a country that is already trying to bring down our European standards for decades in all kinds of consultation clubs, isn't it extremely naive to say that Trudeau is going to be okay now on the basis of a trade agreement and the blue eyes of Trudeau? All right, all right, all right, all right, all Of course not! Of course, it's really naive to think that. With such a trade agreement you should say to Canada: we have a huge sausage here, you may trade with us, we also want to trade with you, but then you must comply with all these rules; and if you comply with all these rules, the door here is wide open and we have a level playing field worldwide, or at least for a large part of the world. In my view, that is the trade that D66 should also argue for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u36	Finally, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u37	I don't know exactly what the color of Trumeau's eyes is. Perhaps we could ask the Canadian ambassador or the party leader of GroenLinks, who likes to go arm in arm with him in the photo. But when I look at this free trade agreement with Canada, I see ILO standards dealing with working conditions and the protection of workers. Eight ILO chapters have now been signed by Canada because we are asking Canada to do so, with the free trade agreement in hand, the sausage that we are proposing to Canada. Canada is adjusting the cattle transports and you name it. A free trade agreement, making agreements with an ally, is the way to force Canada to improve it. Don't put your head in the sand and hide behind the dikes, thinking that way you can still make money in such an international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u38	Yeah, this is so caricature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u39	I'd like to disconnect the paper and go to practice. The trade agreement has been in place since 2017. Before that, the Netherlands was already trading with Canada, just not according to CETA. From 2017, so for two and a half years, we are active. There is EUR 4.2 million in beef and EUR 0.5 million in pork imported from Canada, while we export EUR 119 million in meat. The question then is: how much GM meat has been discovered in Europe, not on paper, but in practice? How much have we gained in Europe? If we are really going to look at the practice and put everything in the right perspective, can you indicate that, apart from everything we put on paper?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u40	I understand very well that the CDA is holding on to the fact that it is about a very low percentage of meat, but I would expect a government party to see it moving forward as well. You assume, of course, that if you conclude such a trade agreement and open the door, it will also be exported to this side from Canada. The fact that it is now a lower percentage is clear, because Canada is still in the process of adapting standards and production processes. But the moment that these processes have been adapted, the door opens wide. So I really don't understand how the CDA can reason in this way towards the Dutch farmers. The CDA has really blinkers on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u41	I can't get an answer from Mrs. Diks. I asked how much meat has now been discovered where gmo is in, in those one and a half to two and a half years. Have we seen issues like that? Did we get that on the table? Did that come up? I can't get an answer to that. In answering the question, I go along with Mrs Diks and suddenly she is very positive. It says that Canada is going to certify companies in the years to come, so that they meet our standards. That's exactly what we want, isn't it? That is precisely why we have a CETA agreement, because we can transfer European standards and standards to Canada. That's exactly what you're saying, that by 2024 those groups will be gone? That's what we want, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u42	But by 2024, those few boxes probably won't be gone at all. Mr Amhaouch asks whether hormone meat has been found...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u43	Sorry, but why do you create a distrust and a certain superiority towards Canada, which you don't think in 2024... Canada is also one of the 196 countries that have signed the climate agreement. Are we going to point the finger at Canada now, because it is not going to make it by 2030 or 2050? While we are discussing in this House whether we will make it ourselves. I think that GroenLinks's superiority over not giving Canada that chance. If Canada had been on the other side of the North Sea Canal, it would have been just a member of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, what was that phrase again: if my head was on my ass...? Of course, if everything was different, it was all different. That's a reasonrant that looks really amazing. You want to use a trade treaty like this to improve the standard. That's the search. I agree with you when Canada would have arranged everything in accordance with the standards we are talking about in the Netherlands, although we are talking about a treaty between the EU and Canada, but the Netherlands sometimes has higher standards. We fought here in this house to get those standards so high. Then, of course, it is not appropriate for you to open the door to meat that has been produced in a lesser way and from which you cannot verify that it has been produced properly. You are concerned about hormone meat and you are wondering whether it has been found in Europe, but it is of course a question of whether these animals have been fed with hormones. So if you can't check properly enough whether it's being used there and whether it's being reduced, and if you don't have a technological ability to check it properly here at the border, what are you doing? Then what do you tell the Dutch farmers who have invested millions in good stables and in a good way of keeping animals? What's your answer to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u45	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u46	The lock is very easy. What our farmers do is top sport at world level. That's what they do. If you say that the Canadians do not comply with Dutch standards, then we must first see what the average is in Europe. Also 27 countries are not all at the same level. CETA is a treaty between Europe and Canada. There's a long way to go to get together on the right level. But you say with a certain arrogance at the start: "Canada, we do not believe you. Whatever you guys are signing, it's not gonna work. Stop it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u47	I find it special that all those cabinets in which the CDA has been or was attached to have ultimately led to a level of animal welfare in the Netherlands that is higher than in other places in the world and that you want to waste it now in order to be able to do business with Canada. That disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u48	I suggest you move on, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u49	Mr. Chairman. And we're just getting started, actually. CETA abolishes import duties on beef, dairy and pigmeat through tariff quotas, among other things. With a growth path, we were just talking about it as well, we are finally allowing 75 000 tonnes of pork from Canada to enter the European market without import tariffs. Although imports have not increased significantly since the entry into force of CETA, this is due to the fact that the Canadians still have to shift their production process, as Canada itself points out. Meat and dairy, produced with much less regard for animal welfare, will soon be given much more space on the European market. This is at the expense of animals, but also at the expense of Dutch farmers who have had to invest heavily in order to improve animal welfare in a variety of ways. My party is the last to say that everything is now okay with animal welfare in our own bio-industry, but it is undoubtedly a fact that our farmers, compared to farmers outside the EU, are doing a lot better than that for Canadian farmers, as well as within the EU. All these investments made by Dutch farmers in animal welfare and all those costs associated with them, of course, have an impact on farmers' operating results. How fair is it to say that I warn you that this is a rhetorical question to ask our farmers first to invest millions in animal welfare, and then to open the door wide to cheaper and therefore more disgustingly produced meat and dairy from Canada? Mr. Chairman. Agriktie Nederland, Dutch Dairymen Board, Farmers Defence Force, the Dutch Akkerbouw Trade Union, the Dutch Milk Feeders Trade Union, the Dutch Trade Union Poultry Holders, the Platform Aarde Boer Consumer and the Association for Organic-Dynamic Agriculture and Nutrition are organisations that are not natural ally of GroenLinks. Still, we're pulling together today. It is not fair for our farmers to impose all kinds of demands on them and then, in the interests of large multinationals, to conclude trade agreements that will compete with those same farmers in the market. Mr. Chairman. No one can maintain with dry eyes the suffering of animals in the man-made bio-industry to take seriously and to fight, while allowing us to accept degradation of our European animal welfare standards in order to conclude trade agreements. Can the Minister reflect on that? What exactly is animal welfare worth to the cabinet? It is true that all kinds of internal administrative consultation clubs have been set up which, according to Minister Kaag, would work to improve the situation in Canada, but a study of foodwatch has shown this week that Canada is already working on our standards. What is more, the European counterparts are eagerly cooperating in this and even calling into question the precautionary principle, the basis, the basis of EU legislation. Doesn't this minister understand that the farmers feel used by this cabinet? On the one hand, they are being hugged to death by parties such as VVD and CDA and told by them that they are so important to the country, that we should nurture them and less harass them with greenhouse gas emissions, and that those same parties on the other hand leave meat and dairy at lower production standards on the market, because that is so good for trade. Does the Minister understand the frustration that this cabinet will always win multinationals over the smaller entrepreneur or farmer? GroenLinks is against that international race to the bottom for dairy and meat. The more there is worldwide competition for as low a price as possible, the more animals, climate and, of course, people are screwed. I would therefore like to propose that agriculture be excluded from all future trade agreements. That would be better for the climate, nature, animals and also our farmers. Can the Minister respond to this proposal? Mr. Chairman. I come to environment and nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u50	Before you continue, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u51	Now my clog breaks: to exclude agriculture from all future trade agreements. The Netherlands is second exporter after America of agricultural products. We're doing great worldwide. LTO writes to you too: three out of five farmers still exist thanks to exports. 75% of every euro that farmers and growers earn comes from abroad. I'm sorry to say, Madam President, it's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u52	It's just what you call bullshit. What I call nonsense is that you argue, although, plead, that is perhaps too enthusiastic for the VVD... You, too, are supporting a climate agreement as a government party and at the same time you are advocating a trade agreement that has already, over the past two years, led to much more trade in oil and petroleum products. So what I'm talking about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u53	We are talking about an agricultural paragraph...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u54	Mr. Weverling, Mrs. Diks is not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u55	Exactly. I just wanted to respond to you. On the one hand, you advocate organizing the Paris climate objective with each other, as a society, in a variety of ways, including agriculture, and at the same time you are going to conclude a trade agreement which will result in a lot more petroleum products and a lot more CO emissions. By the way, with all these additional agricultural products, there will be a lot more CO emissions, as the European Commission itself indicated in the impact assessment. Then I understand...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u56	And the point is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u57	The point is: how can you rhyme that in your VVD head? 'Cause it doesn't suit me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u58	I'll tell you how to rhyme with that. We're a trading country. We are throwing the Netherlands out of business here, and a trade treaty without an agricultural paragraph is not a trade treaty. We are the world's second exporter after America. We're doing very well. LTO, the union of farmers and gardeners, argues for that, too. I hear Mrs Diks say, in the first paragraph of her contribution: we are in favour of trade agreements, just not with Canada; we do not trust them. Then who do we trust? What the hell is GroenLinks doing here? We're just a country that does business worldwide, and that just needs to be able to trust an ally. That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u59	Yes, exactly. That's right. Whatever you say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u60	What I'm saying, yes: what nonsense!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u61	Yeah, exactly, what nonsense you're saying. For we are already, without CETA, the world's second agricultural nation. So is the VVD's ambition to become the first trading nation at this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u62	It is not an end in itself to become a first or second trading nation. Trade is a means to maintain our prosperity and to create and safeguard our jobs. That is what this is all about, and Mrs Diks should simply be aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u63	Yeah, now we've come to a point where there's the fundamental difference between you and me. I want to increase prosperity and well-being, but I want it for everyone in the world. And you're reasoning from your own bubble. You say: if it's okay in my bubble, if I've made enough money and if I've made more profit this year, I'm in the Netherlands, Europe's top. You cannot bomb the fact that damage has been done in all kinds of places in the world and biodiversity has been damaged. That's not your problem, because you've made more profit. There really is a fundamental difference, a fundamentally different view of the world between GroenLinks and the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u64	I think it's gonna be a really long, sad day. All left-wing hobbies are paid for by wealth and jobs. Let's not forget that. It's just that it's important that we get prosperity in order. Then well-being is in order and then we have jobs. The deal with Canada directly results in 16,000 jobs. And without this CETA agreement, there would also be trade. However, it is now at 98% less import tariffs. Those tariffs will be imposed without CETA. Without CETA, WTO trade standards will apply. Then you don't have to talk to Canada about animal welfare anymore, and now you do. So count your blessings.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u65	I'm not going to count my blessings on something I'm completely dissatisfied with. I'd like to have a conversation with Canada. I think that the conversation with Canada should have lasted much longer, and that should at least be restarted. In such a discussion, all the issues that we consider important must first be properly addressed, in the areas of animal welfare, human rights and so on. Only then will we have to conclude the treaty. I think I've reported that several times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u66	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u67	Mr. Chairman. The Paris Climate Agreement made ambitious commitments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Those ambitions are not easy to achieve. In the Netherlands too, we are far behind schedule. Yet this is necessary if we are to keep our planet viable for future generations. Therefore, one would expect public trading in all areas to be at the service of combating climate change. I have therefore been surprised that this government has agreed to a trade agreement providing net greenhouse gas emissions. This is, after all, reflected in the impact analysis carried out by the European Commission. The impact analysis says that the increase in trade in agricultural products will lead to increased methane emissions, and that the environmental damage will be even greater if CETA leads to an increase in oil trade and production. Unfortunately, we can see in the CBS figures that the latter has been the case for a long time. This raises a fundamental question that I would like to put to the Minister today. How long will it put trade promotion over combating climate change? I was just talking about the warning in the European Impact Assessment on increasing environmental damage if CETA leads to increased trade in oil. The statistics of the CBS on trade after the provisional entry into force of CETA do not lie. These figures show very clearly that the oil industry is the biggest winner of CETA for the time being. There is a significant increase in the trade in oil and petroleum products. That is not really surprising either, because Canada, of course, has the third largest oil reserves in size and is the world's fourth largest oil exporter. According to The Guardian, the Canadian government is going to give the green light to a new tar sand mine in the next few weeks. Tar sand extraction is a highly polluting way of oil extraction. That tar sand mine will be the largest of its kind, and will be pouring out until at least 2060 containers of CO. The fact that Canada produces this in large quantities is one thing, but why should we make exports to the EU cheaper by lowering tariffs at the time of this unprecedented climate crisis? Is this what we want to do with our trade policy? And how cynical is it that we are discussing a circular economy in the Netherlands, and that our trade policy in 2020 mainly results in us giving oil a boost? Can the Minister reflect on that? Why do we not choose to exclude fossil fuels from trade agreements such as CETA? Why don't we choose to do even better? Why do we not choose to agree on concrete steps in tackling climate change in trade agreements? Why do we not conclude a trade agreement with Canada which includes the agreement that government subsidies on fossil energy will be phased out in both Canada and the EU? GroenLinks proposes to conclude only trade agreements that are at least climate-neutral, and preferably climate-positive. Let us at least ensure that we do not do more damage to the climate than we do now, as, unfortunately, is the case with CETA. Can the Minister respond to that proposal? Mr. Chairman. I've come to the claim hearing in CETA. In addition to the chapter on financial services, it is the only part of CETA that has not already entered into force provisionally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u68	Yes, Mr. Van Haga?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u69	Yeah, before we move on to the next block. Both EU countries and Canada have signed the Paris Convention. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u70	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u71	So even if exports and imports go up and it's all going well with CETA, we're still bound by the Paris Convention, aren't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u72	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u73	So it doesn't matter then, does it? If we do that, we must do more to achieve the Paris climate goals, in the event of rising production. So that's an incentive for both governments to try even harder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u74	Yes, so you yourself have the idea that it is the fastest route to improving the climate to bring even more pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u75	No, I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u76	I'd find that very unlikely, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u77	I say that with growing exports and growing imports and growing production, we are still committed to the Paris climate targets, both Canada and all European countries. We will therefore have to do even harder in the case of growing production, and that is a good incentive for the various governments. Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u78	I'd hope it might work that way. But we already see that at least a country like the Netherlands is lagging behind the objectives we have set ourselves for Paris. So it seems to me, personally, totally out of the question to say: I am going to achieve those objectives, but then I will start tomorrow. That's how I go on a diet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u79	We're learning more and more about you, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u80	Yeah, that's why. It's a little personal at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u81	No, that's incredibly interesting. And of course, you are absolutely right: the Netherlands is the worst boy in the class. We're not doing well, and we need to do better. But that's a whole different discussion. My question was: if production goes up, and we are really trying to stick to these climate targets, don't you think we should do even better to achieve those climate targets? I think that's just a technical fact. You can only say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u82	Well, in itself, it's true. Just, the question is, is anyone working on that right now? Because I see a huge plus on oil trade in trade with Canada. And you can see it, too, if you look at the CBS figures. And we don't see any delay in that either. So the idea that we're all gonna work very hard on those climate targets, but first we're gonna devoid of some fossil fuel... That's a really weird reasoning, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u83	Yeah, and in the same way, it's incredibly stupid to get off the gas. I might agree with you on that, too. Or maybe you don't agree with me. If we want to achieve these climate goals, we have to do certain things. But in the end, I think, it is about trust: do we have confidence that Canada is going to do its best to achieve these climate goals, and are we going to do so ourselves? But for the time being we are the worst boy in the class, so I think it completely pollutes the CETA debate when we talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u84	Well, you bring it up. Excuse me, but this is kind of a weird order. The moment you want to do better for the climate... I'm just trying to figure out your exact reasoning. The minute you do more traffic, do you have to do better in the end? That's what you're saying, isn't it? Otherwise, I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u85	No, but okay. I'll say it one more time. As production goes up, you have to do more to achieve those Paris climate goals; both the Canadian and the Dutch authorities have to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u86	But so far, no one's done that, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u87	And the fact that things sometimes go wrong, especially with us, is a fact. However, it is a technical fact that we must do more to achieve these climate targets in the case of higher production. So CETA is only good for the climate in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u88	But that doesn't mean we're achieving those goals, does it? You can try harder, but if you find out in 2045 that it didn't work out, then it's 2050 again very quickly. If you consider that the Netherlands is not even able to achieve the goals that we ourselves have set in an orderly manner, that it all has to do with scratching and biting here in this country, then I find it almost surprising that the Canadians want to conclude an agreement with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u89	One final comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u90	That's where Mrs. Diks and I find each other. Perhaps we should try much harder and perhaps we should open up a few nuclear power stations so that we can really achieve those climate targets. But that is a very different discussion than this one about CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u91	That is a completely different discussion, I think, is a good decision from this interruption. We are in any case very much in agreement that the Netherlands should do its best. I'm in investment protection. According to the Minister, this is state-of-the-art claim justice within CETA. Instead of ISDS, we now have ICS. I won't tire you of what those abbreviations stand for. You know all that. The difference is that instead of ad-hocarbitrate, a court is now being set up within the EU. More rules are being introduced on transparency, and that is, of course, a good thing. But the core of the system remains intact. It is a separate form of case law, outside the national courts, which is only open to investors who want to sue States for inappropriate policies. The idea of such a right was created once because investors in countries with less stable governments and legal systems are at great risk. Maybe there's still time to get in there. But we are talking about Canada, a country that has always been set up by the proponents of CETA as the ally of allies and the cradle of civilisation in recent months. Given how animals are handled in Canada, I am sure that this is not the case, but it must be said in general that Canada naturally has a stable government and a well-functioning legal system. Of course, this raises the question of why a separate right of claim for investors in trade between the EU and Canada is necessary. During the written round, the minister already indicated that ICS really didn't need to be there as far as the Netherlands was concerned. But whose is it? Canada, of course. What's the significance of this? What Canadian companies could theoretically try to stop Dutch policy with that claim ruling is at best unclear. Can the Canadian gas company Vermilion sue the Netherlands if we decide to reduce gas production or impose new requirements? Can the Canadian real estate company Brookfield Asset Management sue the Netherlands for new rules on the rental of properties in Amsterdam? Can investment company Onex sue the Netherlands for, for example, stricter rules on benefits in child care? If CETA were to be ratified and Canadian financial service providers would also be subject to CETA, could they sue the Netherlands when, for example, it abolishes tax advantages? The Minister puts everything on the provision in CETA that claims cannot be made when the contested measures have been taken in the public interest. But when exactly that is the case, it is unclear. According to CETA, the State may take measures that are fair and reasonable and must serve a legitimate policy objective. Those are incredibly vague terms in which anyone can read what they want. This ambiguity is something which, of course, will be the subject of numerous legal proceedings. Does the Minister recognize that? Does the Minister also recognise that multinationals will be defending themselves against inappropriate government decisions with batteries and that the citizen, who will be harmed by the same investments, will only have to report to the local court or the local MP? That risk alone can make the government decide not to do things. The minister says she doesn't expect claims from Canadian companies, but what does she base those expectations on? Optimism? Naivety? And what guarantees exactly are there that companies from other countries, such as the United States, through a letterbox company or subsidiary in Canada, will not sue the Netherlands? CETA, in its own words, excludes letterbox companies by requiring investors to carry out substantial business activities on Canadian territory. But what exactly is covered by these substantial business activities is nowhere recorded. In short, what the right to claim in CETA is good for is unclear, but what the risks are is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u92	Before the people who watch at home get the wrong picture: on all the examples that Mrs Diks mentioned at the beginning of this block, the answer is no. For these reasons, companies will not be able to sue the Dutch State. We don't have to be afraid of that. We can make laws and regulations that serve the public interest. Only if a government intervenes disproportionately and expropriates a company can you step here. Mrs Diks herself mentioned these two abbreviations: ISDS and ICS. We now have a system with an ad hoc court that can judge when investors sue a state. We will soon have ICS, with transparency, third parties who are allowed to submit documents and sessions that hopefully will be accessible. So these are major improvements compared to the current system. Does Mrs Diks agree with me that, after decades of discussion of ISDS, we are finally taking a step in the right direction with CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u93	In itself, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u94	I think this is a very hopeful answer, because I have always heard in Mrs Diks' speech that she is not quite satisfied. She's not quite satisfied with animal rights yet. We agree on that. It is not yet fully satisfied with the climate measures that are being taken. I agree with her. Maybe she's not entirely satisfied with the improvements on investment disputes right now. However, I would like to make the most of this debate. We can go into all the details of CETA and then disagree, but the main point is that GroenLinks here shows that as a party it is not able to make agreements internationally. Because if GroenLinks isn't 100% right, GroenLinks walks away from the negotiating table and it's going to scream on the sidelines just as long until it's right. So you miss the chance to take a small step in the right direction. It's such a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u95	But if we can stand on the sidelines and yell at us, I think that would be a good strategy. I'd be sure to keep it up. You say that I may not be entirely satisfied with ICS, but then you have taken me too kindly, because I am not at all satisfied with ICS. Of course, it's a very strange variant. There is no other form of case law, except in the case of investment protection, where you can go beyond all national legal forms. Always, really always, you have to exhaust the possibilities of justice nationally before you can go to other tribunals. That is not necessary here at all, because the money is very good to protect itself and has therefore thought that there should be an ICS. I admit that ICS is an improvement on ISDS. That's right. That's exactly what I just reported. It's more transparent, and so on. But just because something's better doesn't mean it's okay. And just because it's a little bit better doesn't mean we should. I have also indicated that in a number of cases I can imagine that investment needs to be protected, because the country itself cannot do enough. Let me put it in those terms. But of course that is in no way going on in Canada. Europe has a large part of its justice system, let me put that nuance in order. At least the Netherlands has it in order. That is what we are talking about. The same goes for Canada. Anyone who feels harmed in their best interests can simply report to the judge. Then there's just going to be a neat, democratically legitimized system running. So that ICS isn't necessary at all. The Minister has indicated that it should not have been for her either, but apparently it has not inspired her enough to ensure that ICS would be removed from the Convention in Brussels. I would expect you to have been a little more concerned about this from D66, because you are one of the guardians, if I may put it that way, of the democratic rule of law. So why would you, from D66, advocate such a shady tribunal that does not add to the rule of law in the Netherlands at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u96	So it's not shady. It is with permanent judges, with transparency, with third parties who are allowed to supply documents. We can all go to those hearings. That really is a great improvement on the current ISDS system. But Mrs Diks, in her comprehensive explanatory statement, has actually identified the crux: this is about international trade. Then you also have to make international agreements with each other about how you comply with those agreements. And yes, if it had been a treaty between Canada and the Netherlands alone, we wouldn't have needed such a court. Then we could have trusted the judges in both countries. But this is a blueprint for all future trade agreements. It is also about the Dutch entrepreneur who invests abroad and wants to be able to obtain his right there as a government by communist regimes, a dictator or someone else who comes to power suddenly decides to take away the assets of that entrepreneur. Think about the SMEs that invest in African countries and those that do not...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u97	Mr. Jetten, you still have a few...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u98	... can go to court, but can rely on an international court, where the rules of international trade are respected in a decent, transparent manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u99	Before you continue, Mrs Diks, I would like to say something that applies to all the interruptions. A great deal of speaking time has been requested, precisely to highlight the views of the various groups here. The interruptions must therefore be very short and the answers must also be very brief. We've been at it for over an hour now, just with Mrs. Diks, and I still have a whole list. It is an important debate, so there is room, but you must be a little reluctant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u100	I hear you say it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps a brief response to Mr Jetten. The improvement of the ICS is that it is indeed more transparent and permanent. You're assuming that there will be arbiters who are less impressionable. The real weakness of the proposal is, of course, that it is only open to investors, and not to those harmed by those investors. There is therefore no room for citizens. They can still write a letter and become amicus curiae, but that is all of a very different order than you can report to a court of law on your own. I think we've eaten this enough: GroenLinks doesn't see any good in ICS and ISDS was of course also a very bad one. Government measures that the arbitration court to be set up does not consider to be sufficiently clear in the public interest can bring damages claims of millions against the State. In other words, it could lead to millions of euros flowing from the taxpayer to large Canadian multinationals and the government taking fewer measures to protect people, animals, the environment and the climate. That's the so-called regulatory chill, so that a government doesn't take a decision in advance, doesn't take a measure out of fear of a possible claim. Is the Minister prepared to return to Brussels and indicate that the Netherlands will not agree to a claim for investors in CETA? Mr. Chairman. Also, the democratic control of public policies is not helped by CETA. A Joint Committee may decide to amend annexes to the Convention without the use of any parliamentarians. Several other consultative clubs have also been set up to regulate the elaboration of partial aspects of the Convention, such as the gender agenda, agricultural goods, medicines and plant health measures. A number of consultation reports from these clubs have been made public, although the term'report' is a little too much honour, because it is the most vague summaries I have read in times. From documents in Canada that have published foodwatch at the beginning of this week, we now know why. Those summaries of these shady consultation clubs come into being in a conscious confidentiality operation. The Commission's report on phytosanitary and sanitary measures of March 2018 shows that Canada complained about the EU's high standards on agricultural poison. If we were to follow what the Minister says about these consultation clubs, namely that it is so well regulated that Canada is going to lift its standards to the level of the EU via that gremia, we would have read that the EU had looked at the Canadians with great care and would not have gone into it seriously. Instead, we read in the report that the EU not only understood the Canadian position, but also promised the Canadians that EU standards should be lowered. The decision of the meeting was that the EU negotiators were going to lobby with the Canadians for lower standards. That's absurd, isn't it? At the beginning of this month, the European Court of Auditors concluded in a destructive report that the EU is doing too little on all fronts against the environmental and health risks of agricultural poison. In December, Trouw reported that 21% of vegetables and 19% of fruit contain residues of hormone disrupting pesticides in Dutch shops. There was some complaining and wailing from Canada in these consultation clubs and our protection against agricultural poison is probably being eroded even further. I'd like to say, "Come on in here and bring in the pomegranate." And the rest of the world including the Chamber gets a different picture or rather, not a picture, because the report of this meeting in March 2018 is not on the EU website, like the rest. How can this and how do you expect this Chamber to reach an agreement on your ratification law when the institutions around CETA seem to be designed to take the lead and undermine public health and environmental protection in the EU in favour of trade, levels of protection that have finally come about after much discussion in Europe? When Canada found during the CETA negotiations that the new EU directives would impose heavily polluting tar sand oil more heavily than conventional oil, Canada put a lot of pressure behind the scenes, with no tax. The Minister says that this tax on tar sand oil was not the subject of negotiation at all. No, not formally, but we will not know what has changed behind the scenes, but what we do know is that there is no tax on tar sand oil now. How can we trust these communications when we can see from secret documents how things really are going? Does the Minister think that she can ask for that trust from us, and can she at least urge the EU to publish more transparent, complete and uncensored reports from all these consultation clubs? And what does she say to all the municipalities that have indicated in recent months to find CETA undesirable? Does she say, as she often says, "You don't get it, I'll explain it again?" Or does it recognise the possibility that these municipalities have a right point and should be better addressed? Mr. Chairman. Before I come to a conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the strategic partnership with Canada that is also before us today. Of course, GroenLinks supports the strengthening of ties with Canada and thus the strategic partnership. However, I do have a few more questions. The Partnership Agreement contains all kinds of fine words about joint commitment in areas such as human rights, nuclear disarmament and climate. The fine words about the importance of combating climate change and moving forward the agreements contained in the Paris Climate Agreement are in stark contrast to CETA, which leads to increased CO emissions and stimulates oil trade. Does the Minister also see that this undermines the credibility of those fine words? What concrete steps is it planning for the EU and Canada to take on the basis of this Partnership Agreement? And then nothing about the registration of travellers' personal data between the EU and Canada through the contested PNR. In July 2017, the European Court stated that the PNR agreement between the EU and Canada is contrary to EU law. Since then, there has been a lack of clarity. Article 25 of the Partnership Agreement deals with the protection of personal data, but here too my question would be: what are these words worth? Are there still more data to be recorded than legally allowed? I'd like a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Now let's get this over with. The debate we are having today will set the tone for other debates on international trade in the future. If we ratify CETA, we will set the tone in the Netherlands. If we don't ratify CETA, we'll set the tone in the world. We're at a crossroads. We in the House of Representatives have the opportunity to break with the dominant grey, antique trade policy in the service of large multinationals. We have an opportunity to reject CETA and create room for a green, animal-friendly and democratic trade agreement with Canada. We have the chance to move the beacons and choose a new era, but that takes guts. I have already heard colleagues from right-wing parties say that if the Netherlands rejects CETA, we would make a mockery of it. Honestly, I think that's a pretty hysterical assumption, but even if it were, should we let go of a golden opportunity because we're afraid of losing face? Should we just sit back and agree to a polluting and disgusting trade agreement? When could we then break with this commercial policy of promoting oil companies and intensive livestock farming? When could we choose the climate? I would like to conclude with a rhetorical question. If we cannot conclude a trade agreement with Canada that is good for humans, animals, nature, environment and climate, with which country?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u101	Exactly that is the essence of today's story, where we say that CETA is a new, progressive treaty. The Netherlands has, so far, 95 to 100 treaties and trade agreements with an investment dispute regime. If we can close it, and not with Canada today, what does GroenLinks say about the future, for example? We in the Chamber have said that we want to trade with Africa, because of SDG 8, sustainable economy, decent jobs. Then, in the future, we will also say to those countries: "As long as you don't have everything in order and just as Canada doesn't have everything in order, you shouldn't export anything to Europe. Figure it out. You can fix it yourself. And only then will we get to work"? Is that the line of GroenLinks, which also has fourteen seats in this Chamber and which always has a big mouth to go for decent jobs? Is that the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u102	I believe that the African countries, if you want to draw them in parallel with CETA, have sufficiently familiarised themselves with Western European trade policy. For centuries, of course, we have been using Africa as a wing west. Africa didn't get any better, but we did. That is exactly why I have so much trouble with CETA. You should use CETA and all trade agreements, as I have just indicated, to raise the standard worldwide. You must not cause more damage there because we want to make more and more profits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u103	But this is bullshit. There are African countries that want to export or do so today, with the production processes they have and with the certification they have to do so. If we continue the line that GroenLinks is drawing today, namely that everything must be fine first, then today we must ask the Minister to stop doing so, until GroenLinks is told by Mr Jetten that it will get its way and get it all up in his face, and only then will we start trading. That way we will not improve the world at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u104	At the risk of it becoming too long, I think that in my rather long speaking time I have indicated enough what GroenLinks has in mind with trade agreements. It's not about trying to make your own prosperity ever greater at the expense of someone else, by taking on people, businesses and animals in a rat race, which, in my opinion, is a race to the bottom, and to be able to produce at ever lower costs. We see the horrific effects, on humans, animals and climate, of this way of economic trade. And if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u105	I think this has changed enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u106	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u107	Thank you, Mrs Diks. Then I'll go to Mrs. Ouwehand on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Last Sunday, Minister Kaag held the King's address at the remonstrant church in Bussum. She talked about justice and justice there. According to a report in the Reformatorisch Dagblad, she did so on the basis of Micha 3, verse 8. In short, the text would read: "There is said to you, man, what is good: nothing but to do justice and to be faithful." I was rather surprised by that. I know from my childhood in Katwijk that there was a winged word there: "No cleaner spell and more powerful than Micha 6 and verse 8." Was Katwijk wrong? Did the minister mistake himself? Or did the little swimmer gain access to the Reformatorisch Dagblad? I think the latter, because the Reformatorisch Dagblad soon modified the reference. It would have been Micha 6 on second thought and not Micha 3. However, in the context of the CETA debate, I am glad that thanks to the Reformatorisch Dagblad Micha 3 I have been looking for some more. Micha was a farmer. He goes to Jerusalem, say: The Hague, the inner court of that time. He entered the Trêves Room and began to lecture the high-ranking gentlemen, and he made no mistake about it. "You hate good and love evil," he says. It's pretty plastic how he describes what those leaders do there. "The people of the people strip them of their skin," according to Micah, "and the flesh they take from the bones." They leave nothing of the people. "Listen, leaders," he also said, "you hate honest justice." Mr. Chairman. We are not going to do an exegesis here, of course, but I found it striking that the minister decided to give a sermon in a church the Sunday before the major CETA debate, that she chose a Bible book in which the leaders of the people were getting a lot of it, actually throughout the book, and that she was just picking out that one verse that sounded pretty good. That's more than telling enough. Talked to Micha about 700 years before Christ, the minister spoke last Sunday. And today we are discussing how to assess CETA and how this European Free Trade Agreement between the EU and Canada is being sold by the Minister to the Netherlands. Since the Minister has studied Micha, I would like to ask her to reflect on what he says in that Bible book. In modern human terms, it comes down to the following. You don't have to wonder how to do the right thing. You know that a long time ago, but the question is, are you gonna do it, too? Do you dare stand for justice and justice or are you just talking a little bit about it? Because the Minister, to put it diplomatically, is making a fool of himself. She even sent a letter to make those who warn against the consequences of this trade agreement between the European Union and Canada suspicious and accused of lies. Farmers' organisations, consumer organisations, trade unions, Arjen Lubach: anyone who says anything negative about CETA gets it from the Minister. Canada is the dreamed trading partner for her. If you can't do business with Canada, then you can't do it with anyone, her crushing simplistic reasoning, which she was doing in Buitenhof. Canada, the country far behind in animal, natural and environmental regulations. Canada, the country that according to The Guardian reached a new low in climate hypocrisy last week. Canada, which drives away its original inhabitants and destroys on a very large scale nature for the extraction of tar sand oil, the most devastating and polluting fuel in the world. Canada, which still allows young seals to be bludgeoned to death. That Canada is the promised country for Minister Kaag. Mr. Chairman. The Animal Party prefers peasant fur rather than seal fur, and because today I want to remind the Minister of the interests of farmers, who are at stake, I have chosen an appropriate outfit, with farm fur motif, for that. Previously, the Minister replied to questions from journalists about, for example, the Free Trade Agreement with Brazil and its associates, the Mercosur Convention, that she had not thought at any time about the consequences for Dutch agriculture, whereas it is precisely the Dutch agriculture that is at stake in these kinds of treaties. Mr. Chairman. CETA is, of course, much more than a trade agreement. It is a treaty with a huge set of agreements: on investment protection and on a consultative structure with no less than 20 committees, in which mutual standards are discussed behind closed doors and, above all, lobbying hard. CETA is a treaty negotiated by the European Commission with Canada between 2009 and 2014. After that, some minor adjustments were made to the investment protection mechanism, ICS, under considerable public pressure. In the long term, 98% of import duties will be completely abolished. Canada is a major exporter of agricultural products such as rape, wheat, soya, beef, potatoes and pork. In exchange for the lower import rates of Canadian agriculture, European pharmaceutical companies will have the right to extend their patents in Canada longer. That means profit for Big Pharma in Europe and higher costs for people who need medicine in Canada and elsewhere in the world. Europe can also export more milk and cheese to Canada. Of course, this raises the question of how this relates to the circular vision, which, after the signing of CETA, has been officially designated by this cabinet as the path that farmers must take. How does this relate to the climate targets that this cabinet will have to meet? In doing so, the cabinet cannot look away from the livestock, and therefore not, precisely, from the dairy herd. Mr. Chairman. We have asked several questions about working groups of European and Canadian officials who can adapt everything to the Treaty in backrooms. No clear answer has yet been given to this question. That's a lot to think about. The treaty is, let me say it carefully, controversial. The only line of defense that the persistent supporters are the VVD, the CDA and D66; those are the only three parties that are heartfeltly in favour of his........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On balance, they mean, because these proponents also recognise that there are also people who are becoming poorer with CETA and that we will also have climate and nature effects. But yes, so they say, there are always winners and losers. And the losers should just be happy that others are getting rich or something. As long as we get richer as a whole, that's good for everyone. Mr. Chairman. This way of thinking, this cold neoliberal calculus, has caused great havoc in the world. Also in the Netherlands. The idea that if we get richer on balance, then everyone gets better, they're gonna be lied to every day. Look at Ireland; if I am not mistaken in recent years, the country with the highest economic growth in all European Member States. There's more people out there than ever. That's not how it works. You can't say we're getting richer, and so that's good for everyone. Certainly not if the way in which you get richer only goes through the disproportionate advantage of big business, at the expense of citizens' rights, at the expense of the capital that belongs to all of us. Whether you're rich or poor, the natural resources our nature, a healthy climate should be equally accessible to everyone. The cabinet puts that on sale because of a trade deal with Canada. Mr. Chairman. It's this old thought that we need to get rid of very quickly at the beginning of 2020, the new decade. CETA is therefore a convulsion of thinking that has had its longest time. I was pleasantly surprised by the insights that also appeared with the VVD and also with D66 during the past political reflections. There are limits to growth, said group chairman Rob Jetten. That's great fun, but when is D66 gonna respect those boundaries? Liberalism must go back to working for people, said the leader of the VVD. Yeah, it's great! But why do you now agree to a free trade agreement based on that old thinking, which you are asking critical questions about? Minister Kaag says it would be a historic mistake if we did not ratify CETA. I say it is a historic mistake if we approve what should have been in the trash a long time ago today. Because the insights have changed and the world has changed. Since the European Commission concluded the trade deal with Canada, we signed the Climate Agreement, this cabinet acknowledged that the current agricultural system is unsustainable, it pointed out the circular agriculture as an official new course that Dutch farmers should follow and presented Minister Schouten with a vision of the future of poison use that means "we use far too much poison in Dutch agriculture; that really has to go down." Since the negotiation of CETA, the nitrogen crisis also broke out, which various parties here have said about, and I am glad to say that agriculture must really change. It has to be, but then you can't make it to open the door at the border to tough competition. Since CETA's negotiation, the European Commission has presented a green deal with a lot of bombs. And the European Parliament adopted a resolution saying that animal welfare in the European Union should go to a higher level. If you want to do all that, you can't go on with CETA. Or you're and will remain a two-faced administration that the citizens and the farmers can't count on. Let me give you a few examples of agriculture. Thank you to Mr Diks, who has already explained a lot of things that we regret to have to repair here today, because the minister in the newspapers and on television has turned his eyes on all the opponents. The facts are: yes, the products exported from Canada to Europe must meet product standards at the border, such as the same food safety requirements and animal health requirements. That is quite different from production requirements. I'm just going to refer the minister back to her waving the Bible. Does she think it's fair to tell half the story, the story that sounds good and makes people think there's nothing wrong? In Canada, farmers have to do the same thing as in Europe, so why bother with abolishing these import tariffs? Well, because the minister deliberately tells half a story. She was even throwing sand in her opponent's eyes so badly that the advocates didn't understand it anymore. I saw Mr Weverling say at Radar that Canadian farmers must meet the same animal welfare requirements as those in Europe. That's just not true. What the Minister always means is that if the meat is on the European border, it may contain as little salmonella as it does in Europe. It does not say that the rules on animal welfare in Canada are much lower than in the European Union. She's not very honest, is she? Mr. Chairman. For example, Canadian farmers may also use poisons that are no longer allowed here. We have had to fight long and hard for that. That fight is far from over. Neonics, those super-dangerous toxins that have been classified as very disastrous for insects, for bees, have finally been restricted in open crops in the Netherlands after a long time. In Canada, farmers can still use them. What does the Minister say to farmers who don't think that's fair? They must compete against farmers who are allowed to use toxins and thus produce cheaper and more mass than they do. The Minister simply doesn't answer that. What's that about? Group accommodation for sows is not mandatory in Canada. The minister says Canada's working on it. In 2014, the Convention was negotiated between the European Commission and Canada. They've had six years. We haven't seen anything yet. So what do you mean, they're working on it? The hard facts in that treaty say that the European market is open to Canadian pork. The soft side is that we're going to talk to Canada a little bit if they want to change their rules too. You have no guarantee of that. Experience has shown that this is not going to happen either. Canada has not yet shown that they are serious, because otherwise they would have done it in six years. The hard facts are about to compete with European farmers and the soft, anointing words that the Minister speaks mean nothing at all. It is dramatic for the animals and it is unfair to the farmers. The funny thing is, the cabinet gets it, too. I read a quote: "When I hear some politicians, they really want to compete on these kinds of rules. But if a cheap pesticide is allowed in a particular country, but because it is not bad for the environment in the EU, then you don't want the products used to come on the market with us." It was Minister Blok who said this, in the context of the negotiations with the United Kingdom, now that the Brexit has continued. So when it comes to the United Kingdom, the Cabinet understands that you do not do that to bully the British, but simply because it is not fair to your own farmers. So if you understand that for the United Kingdom, why wouldn't you understand that for Canada? Mr. Chairman. If you ask the farmers, they say "no." What really surprises the Animal Party is that the coalition parties seem to be okay with Minister Schouten meeting the farmers in everything, but Minister Kaag in absolutely nothing. She doesn't have to do that at all. However, if you declare the current agricultural system untenable, then the trade policy that has driven this system is of course quite the same thing. Farmers do not go on their own for just bigger, just more, competing at cost and bulk production. Doesn't make anyone happy. Because it had to be in this cold commercial policy of this cabinet, and there was no protection whatsoever, agriculture has developed so that we now say that the whole system is unsustainable. Then you have to start by looking at the driver of it. It's cause and effect. Our blind trade drive, our neoliberal trade policy, has been the driving force behind an agricultural system in which we have to stop five to seven farmers a day, because they cannot win the unequal battle, and that everyone who knows about it has seen it as untenable for at least twenty years. It is recognized by the cabinet, but it is a cabinet with two faces. It wants to reform agriculture, but not shut down the driver of the bankrupt agricultural model. Then there is the exclusive investment protection for multinationals. Only multinationals, foreign investors with activities in Canada can challenge the Dutch State and other EU Member States to a separate investment tribunal. Trade unions, citizens, environmental organisations and states themselves cannot do that. Soon no one seems to want this tribunal anymore. The minister says I didn't have to. The VVD says: neither do we, but yes, there were others who wanted to, so why not? But why not listen to trade unions, consumer organisations, food safety watchdogs, privacy clubs, critical Canadian parliamentarians, environmental organisations and many others? They all say, "Don't do it." Why don't we listen to them? The Vermillions, the ExxonMobils, the Halliburtons and the Cargills of this world, who already enjoy enough protection and have barracks with lawyers to make the most of any possibility offered by national legal systems to protect their own interests, receive additional investment protection, because they do feel that the enormous climate transition could be at the expense of their fossil investments. Why give these companies even more power over the legal system, which in itself takes into account the risk of expropriation when a state takes a decision at the expense of investment? That protection is already there. Then why is it so necessary to give these multinationals an extra layer of protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u109	In recent months many fake news have been announced in the Netherlands, also by the Party for Animals. Mrs Ouwehand talks about the big companies. 97% of companies exporting to Canada are SMEs. I have just told Mrs Diks that the Netherlands has now concluded some 95 trade agreements with an investment agreement. The question to Mrs Ouwehand is: how often has a company, a multinational, made a formal claim and how often has it been granted? It seems to me very good for the people in the public gallery and the people at home to know what the facts are and what fake news is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u110	My answer is as follows: if it doesn't mean anything at all, why is it in the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u111	I still want to distinguish between fake news and facts. The Netherlands has been concluding trade agreements for 40 to 50 years and has already concluded 95 with investment agreements. My question to Mrs Ouwehand is: she knows this very well, because she finds out exactly how often the Netherlands has been formally charged and how often the Netherlands has had to pay a claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u112	That is not the point of this objection. For example, the Netherlands has decided to ban mink farming. Then the mink owners asked the judge until the very last court whether it was a legitimate decision, given that a government cannot just expropriate. Those mink owners have gone through that legal system neatly, and that is their right. What CETA is doing is, on top of what there is already to protect businesses or citizens from any improper state decisions, to provide a layer of protection that will allow your investments to potentially lead to billions of claims if a state decides to do something that goes against your interests. This threat alone affects the political decision-making process. We see this in similar treaties, like the Energy Charter. There is the same system, on the basis of which a billion-dollar claim is threatened if the Netherlands decides to stop the coal power stations permanently. That is what we are talking about when we talk about the risk of this type of investment protection. It is a question of governments taking this into account in the cost-benefit analysis of the closure or non-closure of coal plants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u113	What should people in the public gallery or at home think about television when a very serious question is asked twice, namely how many times in 40, 50 years, with 95 trade agreements, a formal claim has been made and how many times it has been granted, and there is an answer from a politician that takes 15 minutes and that is not really an answer to the question? If we're week in, week out about CETA fake news, aren't we in the wrong place in this house? Then let's stick to the facts. We can differ on the facts. There are several parties here who think differently and have a different perspective. That's not a problem. But let's stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u114	I'm not afraid of what people think at home. I think they are very well aware that if they do not get extra protection from their government if the government decides to change some rules, multinationals should certainly not get that. The threat of this alone, which I would like to make here, has an improper effect on the freedom that people's representatives and governments should feel to make choices that serve the public interest. If there was really nothing to gain from such an investment protection, then it wasn't in there, was it? Just be against that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u115	A very simple question: Mrs Ouwehand, how often has the Dutch State been charged by an investor in the last 50 years with an appeal to investment protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u116	The most important thing that's going on right now is the threat that the decision that D66 wants...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u117	A very simple question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u118	... stopping the coal power stations. I'm not going...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr. Chairman. I'm really disappointed in Mrs. Ouwehand. You always have the biggest mouth on the interrupting microphone that we should provide simple answers to simple questions in this Chamber. The simple question is: how often has the Netherlands been sued with an appeal to investment protection? The answer is zero times. It would adorn Mrs Ouwehand, because she knows the answer if she would just give that answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u120	I don't want to go along with the game of the parties who want to defend this deal. I know why you're asking this. I know why the CDA is asking. I know why the minister uses it to screen in the newspapers and in the media. That is completely ignorant of the analysis made by the opponents, to whom I belong. Mrs Diks also said it, Mr Alkaya is going to say it, the trade unions are talking about it, everyone is talking about it. What I would like to say is that the threat of a billion-dollar claim already affects decision-making. There's our objection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u121	Then we have now found that the Netherlands has been charged zero times. Well, that's fine, then we'll know the facts. Then I come to Mrs Ouwehand's concern, because that is a fair question to ask in this debate. Leiden University has investigated it: are Dutch politicians and policy makers, national or local, under pressure from this threat? Scientific research shows that this is not the case. Mrs Ouwehand experienced that herself. When we debated in this Chamber about the legal ban on coal, it was fortunate that there was, so we stopped burning coal in this country, even one Member of Parliament raised the question: should we do so, because perhaps there is a scary company from abroad that is going to sue us? No, of course not. We are here with 150 Members of Parliament who will not be blackmailed by such an investor. Here we decide which considerations we make in the public interest. I know that Mrs Ouwehand also has that confidence in her colleagues and that as a Chamber we stand up for Dutch interests and do not let such an international court influence us at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u122	Now it's gonna be beautiful. Of course, these things are not said in the public debate in the Chamber. That's all happening in the back rooms. If no one here were under pressure of interests that you would not dare to oppose, there would have been no climate problem and we would have reformed that agriculture a long time ago. Everyone here, on that side of the room, is completely bullied by vested interests. Come on, don't kid me. Where's your agricultural review? Where's the shrinkage of the cattle? This is where vested interests are at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u123	Finally. We must continue to fight this. That is what I do with you when it comes to climate and agriculture and international standards on workers' rights. But what you are doing, Mrs Ouwehand, is voting against every time we take a step in the right direction. You are voting against the Climate Agreement. The Climate Act, you're voting against it. You are voting against an international trade agreement with the highest standards in the world. Why? Because you're not 100% right. But if we ever want to achieve that sustainable world, we must also be prepared to work with other parties, with other countries, to move in the right direction at least a little bit and not stick to the neoliberal model of earning that you and I both want to get rid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u124	The Animal Party is against this kind of free trade agreement, because we only have one earth. We're gonna have to do it with that. Everything that passes by, proposals from D66, proposals from the CDA, we will be asking whether they are going to help keep the earth viable for humans and animals or whether they are false solutions. Is it greenwashing that might still get us out of the rain? Greta Thunberg, you know her too. As politicians, you are telling us that we should not pretend to be inventing solutions if it is not a real solution. We are very keen on that. D66 doesn't always like that. However, I would like to call on D66 to also look so closely at the proposals that are coming along and also to make sure that this really is what is needed to achieve those climate targets. If we don't make it, we're all screwed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mrs Ouwehand, of course, is about her own words, but I would like to make the point that I find it extremely unwise to throw away about half of her colleagues in this Chamber as the pawns of organizations that have all kinds of interests, pawns that have to defend the interests of others. We recognize in the Animal Party, in Mrs Ouwehand, the drive by principles. Why can't Mrs Ouwehand just admit it in others? Then politics is the balancing of interests. It's part of the job. Then it is not appropriate to put away about half of our fellow Members as the slaves of powers behind this parliament whose interests are then served. It's politicians trying to do their job with integrity. I would like to make that comment. Mrs Ouwehand may of course respond, as long as she does not shoot in the mode of: it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u126	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u127	So I can say something, but not that I thought I was right before. I will rephrase it to do Mr Bishop a favor. We see the following in any decision-making. This has been going on for years in the Netherlands and in other countries as well. If we are faced with the question of whether we should take a little better stand for vulnerable interests that are at risk, such as nature, animal welfare, human rights and the environment, then you can see that vested interests, which are often about earning money, have enormous access to the parliament and ministries and that these vested interests have a huge impact on the final decision-making process. Obviously, let me say it carefully, therefore, we are a little more sensitive to short-term interests now, short-term interests which are well organized, which have passes, which have all the lobbyists here, who can enter the parliamentary groups. Interests that are a little further away, for future generations, are a little more difficult. Nature cannot demonstrate by itself on the Malieveld. Perhaps that is how I did justice to Mr Bishop and made my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u128	It is actually a sort of personal fact that Mr Bishop makes. I hope we will not dwell too long on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u129	I think it is important to respond to this in the second instance. I didn't intend to do that at first. Mrs Ouwehand does exactly the same thing as when she made her first remark. She just says, "Yeah," and I'm right. Of course you're talking to interest groups. Of course, you talk to people who come to explain what interests are at stake. This includes, for example, nature and environmental organisations. Then you'll consider his totality. I regret that Mrs Ouwehand insists on questioning the integrity of about half of her colleagues. Now I'm not really gonna react anymore. I think this will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u130	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u131	I would like to respond to that, because Mr Bishop says that Mrs Ouwehand cannot throw away part of the Chamber. I actually agree with what Mrs Ouwehand says. I tabled a motion last week, the operative part of which was: human rights must go before commercial interests and must therefore, in principle, always prevail over trade interests. I added "in principle." I note that this half of the Chamber voted against that motion. So yes, trade interests were in favour of human rights, animal rights, natural rights, climate rights, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u132	I thought for a moment: Mr Bishop sat down again, thankfully Mrs Ouwehand did not respond, and then Mrs van Kooten-Arissen starts on the same point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u133	That's right. I have also seen this motion and it has indeed been rejected, which makes people at home wonder: gosh, what would play with it, why are human rights not more important than trade? If Mr Bishop has a better answer to these people's question, we'd be happy to hear it. However, I can only conclude that vested interests simply find easy access to the parliament and the cabinet, and vulnerable interests perhaps even a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u134	I still have a question about the Investment Court System. I wonder whether Mrs Ouwehand also sees a few advantages, for example that it is faster and cheaper, and that it is very beneficial for SMEs to be able to find out more quickly when a government does something weird, such as expropriation without compensation. Where multinationals have batteries with lawyers and can do all that well, it is a huge advantage for SMEs to be able to do it quickly and cheaply. Does Mrs Ouwehand perhaps, like me, see that as an advantage too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u135	No. I believe that our rule of law has been built up carefully and after a great deal of pain and effort and that we must do everything we can to ensure and defend that justice that we have managed so well to regulate. If anyone is affected in their interests by a decision we take here, the process to the independent judge is always open. That's how we organized it. It is precisely this care that is really important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u136	Of course, I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand that we have a well-functioning rule of law. Only, as an SME, you may have the time from the age of 20 to the age of 70, and if you have to sue for ten years to get right, that is quite an attack on your life. This Investment Court System shortens that time considerably and makes it cheaper. So that's a big advantage after all? You can admit that, can't you, without taking it away from the rest of your story?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u137	I think it's part of having a careful case law that you always have deadlines that might last longer you like. That's the price you pay for it. So I understand that Mr Van Haga mentions a disadvantage here if you go through the legal proceedings. It was also quite long before, for example, we had the ruling of the Council of State which in 2013 came to the conclusion that the nitrogen policy that was approved by your party and others in 2015 was not allowed. Yes, I would have liked that to be faster, but that's how it goes; that's how it's done; that's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u138	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u139	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u140	No, we're not gonna agree. You've already noticed that. The point of the Animal Party is that multinationals are already very good at taking care of themselves and that Europe and the Netherlands are already more or less a welfare state for multinationals. Why add such investment protection, especially when the cabinet itself says "we didn't have to do it"? That would be a reason not to agree to ratification, wouldn't it? But annoyingly, there are still more tricks in the CETA Convention that the Party for Animals has great concerns about. For example, there are CETA committees and working groups. These are consultative bodies between Canadian and European officials to keep the Convention up to date, according to the Minister. We have questions about what happens in those meetings. We've asked questions about that several times. Then the Minister said: don't worry, it's just about technical and executive aspects of CETA. Because our concern was, of course, that the treaty is here, that it is accepted or not, and if it is there, will there still be secret civil servants' meetings of everything that has to do with it? No, the minister said, only technical and executive. But we weren't reassured. We've asked several questions. And those noises were particularly worrying about the committee in which our food safety standards are discussed. Follow the Money reported in October last year that this so-called SPS Committee actively lobbied Canadian officials to release the European precautionary principle. Glyphosate! Wasn't that the little remedy we had a huge discussion about? In 2017, the European Union was faced with the question of whether or not it could be sold in the European Union for another ten years. We've been fighting about that for a long time. D66 was always on the side of the Party for Animals, in the European Parliament and before that party began to rule. They said we have to get rid of it. In the end, it has been decided to allow this product to enter the European Union for another five years, not for ten years. And D66 constantly asks Minister Schouten to slow down the use of that medicine in the Netherlands. Those are legitimate questions, but then D66 should not have voted for them either. It is therefore a contested ground of appeal. And now we read that Canadian officials in the CETA Committees say to European officials: I do not know what you are going to do in the case of satsumas, but we do not think it is a good idea for Europe to ban it, so let go of that precautionary principle. And although the precautionary principle is being applied in Europe somewhat cowardlylyly, on the basis of that principle it should have been banned for a long time now, this cowardly application is thus already a major problem for Canada. Because in that country it is widely used. And the products that are used to produce satsumas simply want Canada to be able to continue to sell on the European market. So Canada finds it annoying that some European countries want more stringent requirements for satsumas, because the heavily sprayed Canadian arable products would be less easy to export to the EU. So what are they doing there? They demand that Europe lowers food safety standards in relation to arthropods. But when we ask questions in writing, the Minister refuses to answer them. Of course, we just need to be clear. Follow the Money can write about that, but we just want to hear it again and again. But the Minister has refused so far. So I'm gonna ask the question again here. Can you confirm, Minister Kaag, that the Canadian delegation, at the SPS Committee meeting of 15 March 2018, criticised the partial restriction of arthropods by and in some European Member States? And what was the reaction of the European representation to this criticism? And, unfortunately, Canada is not just lobbying to lower standards for arthropods. Foodwatch reported a total of three pesticides. Minutes of the SPS Committee, to which the Minister refers all the time, say nothing more than that there has been talk of the so-called MRLs, the standards on how much poison can remain on a product. In addition to those minutes, the Minister acknowledges that MRLs for the marketing of agricultural products in the EU were discussed in the SPS Committee between the European Union and Canada in February 2019. So that means Canada is asking for that. A good understanding knows that Canada has advocated raising the MRLs, i.e. lowering the European agricultural poison standards. And when my group asks critical written follow-up questions, it remains deafeningly silent. So I don't understand very well that the Minister says all the time: I look forward to the debate and we need to remove all the misunderstandings. That's what she says, when she just doesn't answer these kinds of questions. Luckily, there's foodwatch. Foodwatch, on the basis of a WOB request on the meeting of that committee in March 2018, presented a staggering picture of how in that food security committee the Canadians tried to influence European legislation. The report of foodwatch based on that WOB request shows that Canada has tried to influence the implementation of two European regulations. How does this relate to the sales pitch that the Minister is talking about CETA, namely that we do not have to comply with our standards and that Canada also has to comply with the same standards? Why, I ask the Minister, can Canada lobby on the elaboration of European regulations in a committee that should deal with technical and executive aspects of CETA? Those European regulations have nothing to do with CETA. Then why does Canada start to do so in the CETA Committee, and are they starting to make demands? What has been the response of the European delegation to these demands from Canada? And, Mr President, I would also like to ask the Minister. If she informs us that these committees only look at the technical and executive aspects of CETA, it seems that she has misinformed the Chamber. Does she want to reflect on that? How did she get that answer? Is that what the European Commission has told it, or did it know that things were different, and has it decided to stick to these words? Because the image that emerges from the documents that have come out is that it goes far beyond technical and executive aspects. And if the Minister has misinformed the Chamber, it is very serious. Unfortunately, this has not been the case; not only has Canada lobbied within that SPS Committee to influence the implementation of European legislation, it has been successful in this too, it seems. In the SPS Committee, the European delegation, according to the documents, promised Canada that "The long term goal for the EU is to move away from a hazard-based cut-off criteria as a basis for regulatory decisions'. This means, in English, that Europe in these committees has said 'yes, we want to get rid of that precautionary principle', after Canada has urged us to do so. Yesterday it became clear that the Minister refused to answer questions on this issue. As a Chamber, we must be able to weigh up all the facts about CETA, as she says. So, are those answers coming today? It cannot be the case that the Minister says that the CETA Committees are about technical and executive aspects, but that documents show that Canada is using these working groups to get the European Commission so far that it is going to interfere with European standards. I assume the Minister himself is concerned about that. Therefore, the following questions. Did the Canadian delegation to the SPS Working Groups of March 2018, February 2019 or at any other date call for the European MRL for toxins banned in the EU and authorised in Canada to be raised? What was the response of the European delegation to this? Has the Canadian representative asked for a guarantee that the two European regulations on foodwatch would not lead to a deterioration in Canada's export position? What was the response of the European delegation to this? And did the European Commission, in a SPS committee, through its officials, promise the Canadian authorities that Europe would eventually leave the precautionary principle? Mr President, I apologise for the details, but I have also put these questions in writing and I simply do not get an answer, so I shall have to do so in the debate. Then hormone meat. In Canada, Canadian meat bosses complain about the, in their view, stringent European food safety requirements, which means that Canadian hormone meat does not enter the European market. And that's right, Europe is repelling hormone meat from the market. But the passages in the WOB documents that dealt with the Canadian input on beef and pork were.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Can the Minister ensure that we get these WOB documents to the Chamber as quickly as possible? I can imagine that there are more parties in this Chamber who want to know whether Canada has tried to influence European policies and standards when it comes to Canadian meat. We are not reassured, so I can tell the Minister. No, hormone meat isn't the most important point. So I am concerned that the Christian Union is talking about this precisely because Europe is trying to remove hormone meat from the market. The Christian Union should be concerned about poison use and much lower animal welfare standards, which thus create unfair competition for the farmers for which Minister Schouten claims to stand up. However, if you think about hormone meat for a moment, we find it very significant that the Canadian Minister of Trade got the question for three times last night in Nieuwsuur: can you guarantee that hormone meat is not exported from Canada to Europe, and that she only gave three times as an answer: Canada produces quality meat. Well, if you can't say the can give you the guarantee that that's just not gonna happen, then everyone's thinking right: that's what's going on? Apparently, Trade Ministers all over the world share the same argumentation and debate. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to a conclusion. CETA is an outdated and controversial treaty. There's been growing resistance. That's what the Party does for the Animals. The number of parties opposed to CETA is greater than ever. The question is not why parties who previously thought it might be a good idea have joined people who say, "We simply shouldn't do it, because, on balance, if we look at the interests at stake, nature, climate, workers' rights, a fair distribution of money in the world, the farmers and the agriculture we are about to reform, it is simply quite unwise to continue with a treaty that dates back to the early years of this century." The question is why other parties do not take these steps, even if they themselves start to doubt that cold, neoliberal trade policy. Mr Weverling's VVD group says: first, its own vegetables. Great fun, but you can't tell farmers that you're for your own vegetables first if you let them break competition by Canadian farmers, who just have to comply with less strict rules? Then don't say it. I hope that is what Mr Weverling means: his own vegetables first. Organising your food production regionally is really by far the best idea for everyone. Towing food around the world is detrimental to the climate. You take huge risks with possible spoilment and you lose the connection between farmer and citizen, a point the Christian Union always asks for. The Christian Union knows in its heart that CETA is a bad idea. Then why don't you act like one? D66 wants to halve the livestock in the Netherlands. That's what I'm here for. I'm very much in favour of that. But the Minister who has to take care of this has a hard time because the farmers have to change. We all need to change, from the European Commission and from this cabinet. Citizens need to get off the gas. Farmers have to change. And then you wouldn't change the way you look at that neoliberal trade policy? You can't sell that, can you? If you ask everyone to change, given the challenges we face, you must also show that you dare: the European Commission, the cabinet, D66, VVD, CDA. And all the Christian Union has to do is stay true to its own ideals. Mr. Chairman. We have an important decision to make today. It is the harbinger of what awaits us if we do not dare to say: CETA, yet not. Mercosur is still coming, just like Thailand. All those other trade agreements that are based on the idea that we all get better if we get richer on balance, while fragile values go down, the farmers are the first. Let us reflect today on the challenges ahead. Let us choose today to protect those fragile values and make it possible to achieve the goals that D66, for example, claims to be very important. You're not gonna meet the climate goals if you keep thinking: more trade is good for everyone. Mr. Chairman. Furthermore, I believe that the bio-industry needs to be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u141	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u142	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand's fine speech and a fine speech by Mrs Diks. It is good to see that in this Chamber there are critical MPs who do not go blindly after multinationals, but continue to ask critical questions and look more at the people and what they need than at the multinationals. I think that is at the heart of today's debate. And that is also at the heart of the argument I will make. Eleven years ago, in 2009, negotiations between the European Union and Canada began on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. I was 21 years old at the time. Eleven years later, we are here, as Dutch representatives, discussing the end result, a strategic partnership agreement and a broad and economic treaty, or CETA. It concerns many hundreds of pages with agreements on all kinds of subjects that threaten to affect the Netherlands in a way that few international treaties have made so far. Mr. Chairman. Canada isn't just any country. Canada is the tenth economy of the world, an immense country with lots of territory, lots of raw materials, lots of forests, lots of logging. It is also one of the largest oil exporters in the world and the third country if you look at oil reserves. In addition, the Netherlands and Canada have a rich shared history. Yesterday we received a letter from the minister in which she rightly called attention to the relationship between the Netherlands and Canada. That is why it is so important that if we, the Netherlands, through the European Union, conclude such a broad and comprehensive agreement with a country as important to us as Canada, it is a good and modern agreement, which fits in with 2020, not with 2009, 11 years ago. The world has changed strongly in 11 years. I'm not 21 years old anymore. In the world, politicians came to power who had even less power 11 years ago. In the United States, you see a president like Trump. In Brazil, you see a president like Bolsonaro. We have also had a financial crisis, the account of which has been paid by people. So, both internationally and economically, the world looks very different than it did 11 years ago. No one can deny that neoliberal capitalism, which many political parties have embraced for many years, is in decline today. Sometimes, unfortunately, in the world, it is radical right-wing parties and politicians who slap the establishment in the face. Sometimes it is also our social comrades, as in Spain and Ireland, who deal with the establishment. In any case, it is unmistakable that neoliberal politicians, who have worshipped free trade and multinationals for many years, are wrong. Their system is clearly failing, all over the world. Wealth is concentrated on fewer and fewer people and fewer companies. The people who see inequality growing are being turned against each other. Mutual distrust is increasing in society. Meanwhile, the climate warms up. People around the world are right to be angry. We see in countries that are completely different from each other that people stand up and are angry at the establishment. They are angry with banks, with predatory capitalists and multinationals, but also with politicians who are following them, politicians who constantly promise that we will all get better if we start trading more and continue to pamper multinationals. No one's gonna believe this anymore. Those days are just over. If you look at CETA, can we all conclude that the time has overtaken CETA? That is also what many civil society organisations say. They say: what began as a negotiation of a modern trade agreement has ended in a treaty that strengthens an old, unequal and unsustainable economy and does not provide solutions to some of the greatest problems of our time. We could all read this yesterday in a letter from 22 organisations addressed to us. Three trade unions are under this heading: FNV, CNV and VCP, but also foodwatch, Greenpeace, Milieudefensie, the Dutch dairy farmers Trade Union, the Dutch Akkerbouw Trade Union and many other organisations. They represent about 2 million people together, in the Netherlands alone. Then all I'm talking about is our own country. We have also heard from Canadian organisations and Canadian politicians: Dutch parliament, do not approve of this treaty, because it is an outdated and flawed treaty; it is a monstrosity from the past and it is not good enough, do not waste this opportunity with such an important country, an ally like Canada, to conclude a better and fair trade agreement. I fully share the conclusion of GroenLinks. If we are already forced to conclude such a flawed, outdated and unfair treaty with Canada, and if we set the bar so low, what country will we soon have to achieve the golden standard with? Then this is going to be the standard. So we have set the bar so low for future generations because it seems to be the most feasible. As far as my group is concerned, this is not acceptable as far as the Socialist Party is concerned. CETA dates back to the era when neoliberal politicians were in charge, the previous generation. But today we are sitting here for a very large part with a new generation of politicians, a generation of politicians who, during the General Political Reviews, have yet to speak away from the neoliberal policies of their predecessors. So today is an opportunity to turn those words into an act of resistance. We can get this CETA Convention off the table and send a strong signal to Brussels and Ottawa that this agreement is far from satisfactory and that the Netherlands cannot accept it in this way. If an extremely small majority finally approve this flawed, outdated and unfair agreement with Canada, then we will set the bar for future agreements so low. And the next generations after us will certainly charge us. Mr. Chairman. The most out-of-date and bad part of CETA is the part of two years ago that has not yet entered into force, so hopefully we will never see the effects because we will wipe this CETA Convention off the table, namely the system of legal protection for foreign investors, the so-called Investment Court System or ICS. This kind of privilege for multinationals in international conventions is evident from the fact that a similar element has recently been removed by Canada from the convention they had with the United States and Mexico, the NAFTA Convention. That treaty has been renegotiated and they are now rightly proud that there is no parallel protection and additional exclusive protection for multinationals. They are rightly proud of this, but it is still in the Treaty with the European Union. International conventions that introduce such an exclusive court for multinationals feed displeasure in society and delay social and sustainable progress. So many examples have already been mentioned of various claims by multinationals against governments that want to take measures to protect their citizens and their environment. Claims against greening measures, claims against raising the minimum wage, claims against measures aimed at improving health and tackling cigarette addiction and obesity, and so I can go on for a while. Why does the cabinet not go to Brussels today with the message that the Netherlands does not want this undermining of our democracy either? Many municipalities have already called on the government to do so, but the cabinet does not seem to take them seriously. In an interview yesterday in the NRC with the minister, it became clear that the cabinet also does not really think that a VIP court for multinationals is necessary in the case of a developed country such as Canada. However, the cabinet seems to accept this because the Canadians do, despite the concerns of our municipalities and provinces, for example, about the degradation of our local democracy. How does the Minister feel that Canada, following a re-negotiation with Mexico and the United States, has obtained a similar privilege for multinationals from the NAFTA Convention but apparently would not want to do so with the EU? Has there been any discussion with the Canadians about whether they would be prepared to do so after they removed this part from the other treaty a few weeks ago? Why should Canadian multinationals be allowed to obtain this kind of privileges in the Netherlands and in Europe, when Mexico and the United States have rightly stopped doing so? How does the Minister feel that President Trump could achieve such an improvement and that this would not be possible for our Minister and our Trade Commissioner? Are they suitable for this function or do they have too much eye and attention for the international game and too little eye and too little attention for the local needs here in the Netherlands? The fact that investment protection clauses in bilateral treaties have become obsolete is also reflected in the increasing number of agreements concluded by the European Union in which such protection no longer exists. Since CETA, since this Convention, there has been very little of that. In addition, there is talk of a multilateral court which will hopefully not only be open to multinationals, as is currently the case with CETA, but also where trade unions and environmental organisations can go. So you don't have to settle that bilaterally between two countries every time, but that's just a good deal. Is the Cabinet not afraid that this outdated system in CETA will have to be kicked again in a few years' time? Why should we now agree to this outdated system, if there are treaties that it is no longer in and if there is talk of an improvement? Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands itself has never been sued through such a VIP court for multinationals. Several parties have asked for this, but they draw the wrong conclusion. Because 110 cases of the 983 cases that have ever started internationally because of these kinds of clauses, run through the Netherlands. These are multinationals that have started cases against governments through the Netherlands, sometimes because they are based here and sometimes through letterbox organisations here in the Netherlands. And because the Netherlands has such conventions with all kinds of countries, this is often used by multinationals to put pressure on governments in other countries. There are also extremely dubious cases. I have here a list of all 110 cases. Let me take an example of what I think is going on at the end of last year. A bank from Belarus has recently started a case against the central bank in Belarus via a mailbox company in the Netherlands. So that is a bank that is suing its own central bank, through a letterbox company in the Netherlands, because we all already have these kinds of treaties with the whole world, which Mr Amhaouch is so proud of. So we are being used as a base for this type of multinational. So my question to the Minister is: is it true that, in the same way, American companies with a subsidiary in Canada can also sue the Netherlands or another European country in this way after the approval of CETA? No less than 45,000 American companies have branches in Canada. How many of these comply with the definition of "significant business activities', as stated in CETA? I can just imagine that this is a lot of American companies with a claim culture that we are not used to here in the Netherlands and we do not want it here in the Netherlands either. This will certainly not improve any Dutchman. It's only good for the multinationals. I just have to go to court as a citizen if I have a problem with the government. We've all been able to see in different cases lately that that government will do its utmost to make my life miserable. But if a multinational has a problem with that same government, then the red carpet is rolled out. There is no need for ordinary justice. An ordinary course of justice is for rabble like me, apparently. Mr. Chairman. With these kind of treaties, in which there are VIP courts for multinationals, we are not getting anywhere. It also feeds the sense of injustice in the country. And only this reason is enough to reject CETA. It is therefore logical that the Christian Union said in a motion in 2015 that they do not accept and do not want this kind of parallel legal process for multinationals in the Netherlands. That was a motion by Mr Segers, Mr Merkies, my predecessor as spokesman for the SP, and Mr Klaver van GroenLinks. It is therefore very logical and understandable that the Christian Union has then also given this point a prominent place in the election programme, and that they are mordicus against this kind of VIP courts in the Netherlands. That is why it will also be very understandable if the Christian Union is to clarify that it will never agree with these types of VIP courts. The opposite, namely a voice of the Christian Union for this kind of VIP courts, will of course be completely incomprehensible: a slap in the face of the voters and a slap in the face of the whole of the Netherlands. That is why I really hope that today we can reach the right conclusion and get clarity from the Christian Union Group. Mr. Chairman. Another concern on the part of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and of several parties has already been raised. The official working groups are the ones that can change all kinds of things in the Treaty by a simplified procedure, after it has been approved by the Parliament, without having to answer for it. The Animal Party has already drawn attention, among other things, to the dubious issues that are being discussed in such official groups. So I am referring to the so-called joint committees. The Cabinet states that it is only a matter of amending some of the technical implementing aspects of the Convention. But then, in the same answer to my written questions on this matter, the cabinet writes that the addition or deletion of geographical indications, for example, is one of them. Then what are we talking about? For example, we are talking about Gouda and Edammer cheese from the Netherlands. They're protected now. Canadian producers cannot simply place these products on the market, after possible approval of unexpected approval, I would like to say that the products are made by CETA, unless they actually come from, for example, Gouda. But can the European Commission and Canada decide, in such an official joint committee, to delete this protection, without the Netherlands having to say anything about it? Does the Minister consider the protection of traditional products of this kind to be a technical aspect? And what more are technical aspects, according to the Minister? For if it does take away such things as 'technical' for farmers, I fear the worst for its attitude in the future of the Treaty. CETA is also the most far-reaching free trade agreement ever concluded by the European Union in the field of services and its impact on public services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u143	I would just like to compliment Mr Alkaya, because with these points he is really on the right track.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u144	Thank you. I can put it in my pocket.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u145	That's how it's gonna be, isn't it? Short and powerful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u146	Yeah, exactly. That was a good interruption. Mr. Chairman. Our public services are under pressure from different agreements in the areas of investment protection, procurement, market access and non-discrimination rules. After all, CETA is basically about everything: all services should be open to Canadian multinationals, unless an explicit exception has been made for a service in the Convention itself. But take mobile internet, for example. Fifteen years ago it didn't exist or wasn't that big at all. In this way, new services are constantly emerging, on which we have to decide every time in the Chamber whether to leave them to market players or to regulate them in a different way. This cabinet itself, for example, comes back to the liberalisation of postal delivery and allows a merger between PostNL and Sandd, which in fact creates a monopoly for postal delivery and puts an end to market forces. In fact, there will be no more market forces in the postal sector. That's good. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this, with all mail delivery staff in the public gallery. At that time, as the economic spokesman, I was allowed to do that debate. That's how it's supposed to be in a democracy. At that time we talked about the future of postal delivery in the Netherlands. Of course, I have not been right on all points, unfortunately, I am not always right on this issue, but there has been a political discussion on this issue. These kinds of choices are and remain political. But if a service in CETA is not now excluded, the hands of politics seem bound in the future. How does this relate to the right to regulate? That is my question to the cabinet. If you find that many privatisations have failed, such as postal services, then the Minister does not consider it a matter for the parliament to continue to speak freely, without a treaty that binds us to the whims of the market and Canadian multinationals? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the unfair and indecent treatment of our farmers. For years we have demanded that they respect animal welfare more and more. They have always raised the standard. For good reason, we have encouraged them to do so. Now we have a certain level of animal welfare in the Netherlands, now a large part of the farmers are satisfied, and what do we do? We open the door wide to farmers from Canada who, under other circumstances, with less stringent rules, produce and therefore can produce cheaper. That is unfair competition. Can the Minister imagine that many farmers' organisations do not think this is fair, that they are angry and that they have turned against CETA? The previous two speakers, Mrs Diks and Mrs Ouwehand, have already mentioned many examples of parts on which Canada really has much lower standards than the Netherlands. It is worrying that poisons that we in the European Union have banned may be used in Canada, for example. In Canada, growth hormones are also used in livestock farming. That's what we talked about. That is hard to trace in the meat and its controls are flawed. My group is not reassured that we will not have meat in the supermarket with growth hormones in it. The Canadians can't guarantee that either. In Canada pigs can be transported 28 hours in a row and other cattle can be transported even longer. In the EU that is 8 hours. There are, therefore, important differences between Canada and the Netherlands in this area and these are not recognised in this Treaty. If you do that, you'll allow the standards to go down eventually. If you go with that competition, if you're forced to go, those standards will go down. That's unmistakable. The farmers are right to be angry about that. On the one hand, the cabinet says that we must work towards circular agriculture, but on the other hand, the Minister says in her letter: but we do not want to become circular enough to produce everything in our own village as a kind of commune. In other words, this minister is making the policy of her own cabinet a little ridiculous, just as she has been trying to ridicule all the opponents and all the concerns of people lately. We would all believe in myths and not really understand CETA as well as the Minister apparently does. But the minister and the supporters of this treaty seem to no longer understand the concerns of ordinary Dutch people. No one in this country believes it anymore when you say it's good to give multinational companies more credit, to pamper multinationals, and that would automatically be good for all Dutch people. With this lie, wages have been kept low in recent years, tax advantages have been given to multinationals year after year and the courts have been set up for multinationals. The result is obvious. Inequality is growing worldwide and our environment is destroying. The government must restore this environmental damage with taxpayers' money, which then leads to tensions in society. Multinationals get the pleasures of this system and the burden on ordinary people. To turn the tide, a new type of fair trade agreement is needed, based on equal rights and equal and high standards in terms of worker protection, the environment and animal welfare, standards that fit the 21st century. CETA should have been the golden standard under the trade agreements, and that has clearly failed. If we can't reach a good agreement with Canada, which country can? It is not for nothing that this treaty will either perish in the Netherlands or, of course, I hope that it will pass through Parliament with a very small majority, one seat or something like that. My final question to the cabinet is: is it really prepared to carry such a comprehensive historical but nonetheless flawed, outdated and antisocial treaty through parliament with such a small majority? Would it not be appropriate to seek a far greater majority in Parliament, to take our concerns seriously, to go back to Brussels and to stand here in Parliament with a much better agreement? The SP has been fighting CETA for years, and I very much hope that this agreement will die here in the Netherlands, so that we send a signal to the world that we are no longer dancing towards multinationals and that we demand a much better agreement, an agreement in which other values prevail. Not profit, but equality, democracy and a clean future for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u147	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Weerdenburg on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u148	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Stop CETA, that call sent thousands of concerned citizens and interest groups from the Netherlands and beyond to us, MPs in recent months. Thousands of e-mails from citizens who are deeply concerned about the impact of this treaty on our economy, our food safety and our democracy. About three years ago, more than 200,000 signatures were issued here from people who wanted a referendum on CETA. But the cabinet rushed into the Referendum law, afraid of a convinced no of the people against CETA. So the referendum never came, but the convinced no. A long list of citizens, civil society organisations, scientists and almost the complete opposition in this house, from left to right, are against this trade agreement. If the PVV stands side by side with the extreme leftist activists of Milieudefensie, then you know that it is very wrong. A few months ago I walked on the Malieveld, among thousands of parked hikers and worried farmers who do not feel heard, who wonder why they have been the headlines of Jut for years for policy makers in The Hague and who are worried about trade agreements such as CETA. And they are right, because this treaty is the demolition hammer for our Dutch farmers. This treaty opens the door to unfair competition from abroad. For example, our farmers must comply with strict environmental rules that do not apply in Canada. For example, Canadian farmers can simply use growth hormones for their livestock or plant protection products that are already banned in the Netherlands. The previous speakers have already said a great deal about this. This convention is also a huge blow to animal welfare, which the PVV is so committed to. In Canada, a pig may simply be locked in a truck for 28 hours without water or food. As a result of CETA, this kind of animal abuse will be allowed to take place and the kilo-bulls from Canadian mega-stables will soon be in our supermarkets. We can't let that happen. We do not want such meat in the Netherlands. The PVV is proud of our farmers, who grow such beautiful crops and make themselves so strong for a healthy livestock. They produce honest food and deserve a fair price for it. But they get the smell of thanks. After the phosphate rights and the nitrogen rules that have already led our farmers to the brink of collapse, this treaty will be the death penalty for our agricultural sector. We will soon be able to consume the products from abroad, but we will not be able to produce them in this way. With CETA, this cabinet is giving our farmers a final move towards buying-out. Betrayal. I can't think of another word for it. Mr. Chairman. This treaty is also going to ensure an unprecedented transfer of sovereignty. CETA is a living treaty. This means that it can simply be adjusted over time by the so-called treaty committees. The Christian Union said the most striking thing in 2016 when it co-signed a motion calling on the government not to sign CETA: a living document is in fact a blank cheque. The Convention Committees set up by CETA are decision-making bodies that should further develop, complement and adapt the Convention. They are empowered to take binding decisions and to establish rules to be adopted by Member States without further ratification. The European Parliament and national parliaments are not involved in the decision-making process, even though the committees are active in areas for which Member States are also responsible. As Minister Kaag himself recently confirmed in reply to Parliamentary questions, the European Parliament is only informed. This makes effective control impossible. The Netherlands will therefore soon be bound by rules that will establish a CETA Convention Committee. And not a parliament that needs it. The PVV considers this an unacceptable restriction of Dutch sovereignty and, moreover, a derogation from Article 81 of the Constitution, which reads: "The adoption of laws is carried out jointly by the Government and the States General." The essence of a democratic rule of law is the primacy of the legislator, which means that it is up to the legislator in a formal sense, the government and the States-General jointly to make the main considerations of government policy and to effectively exercise control over the government. Control by the parliament and the role of the parliament as co-legislator contribute to the democratic legitimacy of essential decisions or legislation. Since decisions of CETA Convention Committees are not subject to effective parliamentary control, neither at European level nor at national level, before those decisions become binding on Member States, the PVV considers that this is contrary to the principles of parliamentary democracy. Mr. Chairman. The rules are clear: if a treaty deviates from the Constitution, then approval requires a two-thirds majority in both chambers. This is provided for in Article 91 (3) of the Constitution. In the opinion of the PVV, CETA's clearance law contains falsely no provision requiring such a qualified majority to be approved by reference to Article 91, third paragraph of the Constitution. That is why I tabled an amendment this afternoon aimed at correcting that defect. I am counting on broad support in this Chamber, including from the parties in favour of CETA. After all, if this treaty is so important, it would be very surprising for the PVV if they did not attach at least the same importance to a broad support for CETA in society. Mr. Chairman. Over the past few weeks, these coalition minister and spokesperson have pulled out all the deceptions and moral means of pressure. Opponents of this treaty have really been made up of everything. They would be against jobs and prosperity, opponents of free trade, suffering from trade shame. They would accept in advance the power of China and the US on the world stage and ignore the particular historical bond between the Netherlands and Canada. The Minister even recalled that Canada is a country that freed us, implying that we have a moral duty to accept this trade agreement. If you have to call in the war to convince people you're right, then apparently all your decent arguments are gone. Mr. Chairman. It is not the fault of farmers, citizens and interest groups that this government came back from Brussels with such a bad deal. It is also not to be expected that the legitimate objections have not been addressed by the authors of CETA. If you leave it to unelected Brussels Eurocrats to negotiate a trade agreement, then it is logical that the outcome will be disappointing for the Netherlands. Respondents of CETA have done everything possible, signed petitions, sent emails, sent letters, demonstrated and lobbied, but they have not been listened to. They weren't taken seriously. They've been ridiculed. Mr. Chairman. Let the PVV be very clear. This trade agreement is unfair, unjust and unacceptable. As far as we're concerned, we're allowed to put it in the trash. Away with all these insane risks, to which we expose our farmers, our food safety and our parliamentary democracy. Instead of multilateral trade agreements such as CETA, negotiated by unelected Brussels Eurocrats, we need to focus on bilateral trade agreements as we have concluded for centuries. An agreement in which we can decide for ourselves what kind of products we want in the Netherlands. An agreement that does not conflict with our high standards of animal welfare, product and production standards. An agreement that reflects the special relationship between the Netherlands and Canada. An agreement that does justice to our agricultural sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u149	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I now give the floor to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u150	Presbyterian. Of course, there's going to be a counter-sound. You've been expecting that. Trade treaties are of all times. Already in 1300 we had the Hanseatic League between all kinds of different cities, which created more trade among ourselves. Working together brings many benefits, you will agree with me. We, like the Netherlands, are actually a boxer who fights above his weight. We should always be working with other countries in the world. Trade is intertwined with our economy. That's how we've grown up over the last few hundred years. We still do a lot of business around the world. So let us not close our eyes to the CETA Convention, which is now before us. Let's just face the greater importance of each other. The relationship with Canada goes back a long way. I don't need to remind you of that here. Especially after the war Dutch farmers went to Canada. They found their destination there. The Dutch became farmers there and have successfully established beautiful companies there. Canada is a like-minded country with like-minded ideas. Canada is not Congo, ladies and gentlemen. Canada belongs to the top 25 of our export market. 16,000 jobs in the Netherlands are simply dependent on trade with Canada. 16,000 jobs, 16,000 families, so many mouths are fed by trade with Canada. 600 Dutch companies trade daily with Canada. Since the entry into force of this CETA Convention about two and a half years ago, 98% of import tariffs have already been abolished. This therefore saves EUR 600 million per year in import tariffs. The products can thus be placed on the market cheaper, and that money can be reinvested in other things, such as innovations. Canada's public procurement market has also opened up to Dutch companies. This means that there is 30 billion in government procurement in Canada for picking up. How about all kinds of companies in the Netherlands that can build beautiful ports or all kinds of infrastructure projects? Dutch companies now have this opportunity in Canada, where a 30 billion tender market opens. So that's important. Our innovations are protected, intellectual property. You can think of things as Dutch Willie Root and it's just protected in Canada. That's nice, that's good business. And how about the local produce, the Gouda and the Edammer cheese? More than 20% extra Gouda and Edammer cheese are sold. That's good for our dairy industry. Previously, a further 245% import tariff was levied. That's been left out now. So that's good for selling cheese. Our cheese producer is therefore no less affected by this, because these import rates do not need to be levied. The mbk benefits from this. It's not just a treaty for multinationals. I hear all kinds of ghost stories about that. It is about simplifying rules for SMEs. The administrative burden is reduced. It's about lower rates. So money is being released again for investment in innovation and in employees. That, of course, is also important. There is a special SME contact point. To give an example: greenhouses are being built from the beautiful Netherlands in Canada. Then not all tomatoes from the Netherlands have to go that way, no, we make countries worldwide self-sufficient with technology and knowledge from the Netherlands. Machine factory Boessenkool from Almelo, for example, a factory with 50 employees, does business with all its machines there in Canada, and its intellectual property is protected. Or take Canuck bv from Zeeland with nine employees, a company that has 10% cost savings due to lower import rates. Mr. Chairman. Dutch exports of goods and services have already increased by 23% over the past two and a half years. The transhipment of Canadian goods in the port of Rotterdam has increased by 38%. And so it is good not only for large companies, but also for SMEs. A compliment to the former Foreign Trade Minister, Mrs Ploumen, is in order, I think. She has negotiated a very good treaty. There's a good ICS system that's nicely developed. It has become a modern dispute resolution system. On 29 October 2016, Ms Ploumen wrote: "EU Member States have agreed on the signing of the EU-Canada Trade Agreement (...) Mrs Ploumen said she was pleased that there is now unanimous support for CETA: 'This agreement is good for our employees, consumers and SMEs: prices are going down, companies are getting new and better access to a market of 35 million people and consumers have more to choose from. And CETA not only brings economic benefits: we will work with Canada on important issues such as sustainability, labour rights and animal welfare. CETA stands for sustainable trade and a better distribution of the profits of economic growth.'" According to Ms Ploumen in a press release dated 29 October 2016. Wrang is therefore that the PvdA is now against and that it does not keep the bigger picture in mind, because that is what we should be talking about. Do you realize that well? It is a pity that they are now suddenly opposed, but perhaps they want to make the turn again and still face the greater importance well. Because if there were any objections, they should have made them clear then, not now afterwards. Mr. Chairman. I've got a lot of ghost stories that bother me. We've been swamped by it the past few years, and that's too bad. European requirements for food safety are maintained. They're gonna stay in charge. Even Canadian farmers complain that European food safety rules are quite strict and that they are difficult to access the European market. That is a good sign in itself, because that is what we are leading with our European demands. Animal welfare has been agreed on, and discussions can also be held on, for example, matters such as pig transport. If you don't have a treaty with each other, you can't talk about it either, so you fall back on the current WTO regime. Mr. Chairman. We need to protect what's vulnerable and help what's competitive. This will help the Netherlands. Quotas and levies are available for beef, pork and chicken meat, but there are also export opportunities, for example for cheese. I just turned that in. LTO, the big farmer and gardener organisation in the Netherlands, supports this treaty and calls it the new standard. Three out of five farmers exist thanks to export, says LTO. It's good to realize that. Then the ICS. Mrs Ploumen has negotiated it and so it has been modernised. It has more limited opportunities for companies. There are independent judges in this way I have to formulate it and activists and citizens get a say in it. But of course, it's for investors, because investors invest. Should the ICS necessarily be part of this CETA Convention? No, not particularly. Canada and other EU countries wanted it. It is a total package in which we are going to say yes to each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u151	I'm just gonna... Yes, were you almost done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u152	Our autonomy over regulation is explicitly mentioned. The ICS is not for letterbox companies. I think that is also quite clear in the Treaty, which is on my table there. The European Court says that the ICS is in line with the European Treaty. As far as I am concerned, that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u153	Good. Then there is a question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u154	Mr. Weverling says he's been obsessed with ghost stories. Well, I didn't hear him correct himself, because I saw him on television on the television show Radar. And when Mr. Weverling is on television, I always watch. In that programme he said that animal welfare standards in Canada are the same as in Europe. That's not true, is it? So Mr Weverling may need to fix that, because ghost stories are really very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u155	I didn't see the program myself. I understand that it was broadcast and that there was a lot of disproving by the Ministry because of all the ghost stories. I do not remember this quote specifically, but I will of course not be childish, Mrs Ouwehand. We've known each other a long time. What is of course important is that the animal welfare standards for the Netherlands are leading, that they must be respected and that products come to the Netherlands only when those conditions are met.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u156	Mr Weverling said: I will not be childish, of course. But it seemed like he was doing a trick here for a while. It says on camera that Mr Weverling is claiming something that is simply not true and that he is saying here: yes, but I do not have an active memory of that. Mr Weverling simply said to Dutch citizens: animal welfare requirements are the same as in Europe. That's not true. I think you should admit that, especially when you're talking about ghost stories yourself. That's one. Two. I would like to look forward with Mr Weverling at how the VVD Group is going to behave, if it is happening, for example, where the pig farmers are afraid of and the farmers are already afraid of: that the farmers in Canada need to comply with less stringent rules, that they can produce cheaper and that these things come on the market here. We know a bit about the dynamics of the VVD, for example in the Ukraine Treaty. It was already clear in advance: the VVD agrees anyway. Then you see that these puffy chickens come on the market here, and then the VVD in the Committee on Agriculture is going to say: well, what a shame; can the Minister not do something about it? No, you can't, 'cause you opened those doors. Can Mr Weverling here give homage or calf to all those farmers who ask the VVD: please protect us from this unfair competition? Or you agree that these people will be competed away, but then you don't try to talk to the farmers a little bit and tell the minister: can't you solve that, because it's really annoying what Canada is doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u157	It is a long introduction by Mrs Ouwehand. The point is that clear agreements have been made on quotas and on tariff reductions, for example to prevent cases from coming to the Netherlands. Agreements have been made on, for example, slaughter processes. There are special categories about hormone-free meat. So there are a lot of safeguards built in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u158	Let us return to the Ukraine Treaty. In the Ukraine Treaty there was a stronger guarantee than in CETA. In CETA, the issue is: we are going to talk to the Canadians about whether they want to defy their farmers on their own and impose additional rules. I have never seen the VVD do anything for that in the Dutch Parliament. So you can imagine that in Canada there are fellow MEPs who think: I care that the Netherlands wants to; I am not going to defy our farmers and impose rules. Anyway, that's in CETA. In the Ukraine Treaty, something sharper had been agreed. It stated that Ukraine would meet the European animal welfare requirements in 2021. What happened? Ukraine has unilaterally announced that she will make that appointment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u159	We're talking about Canada, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u160	Yes, but the agreements with Canada are therefore even less strong than what we agreed with Ukraine...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u161	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u162	... and the VVD is already angry about that. Then you can see that even a more or less harsh agreement in the Ukraine Treaty is said unilaterally by Ukraine: we are not going to do that until five years later. CETA has even fewer guarantees. It's all about conversations. What does the VVD say to the farmers who rightly say: the VVD simply exposes us to harsh, unfair competition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u163	That was the question? The VVD says that this trade agreement is good for our economy in general. We have made good agreements with each other, quotas have been included and tariff reductions have been introduced to prevent cases from going to the Netherlands. That's important. Canadian producers also have to comply with traceability of all kinds of things, such as hormone meat. I wouldn't be afraid of it flooding the Dutch market, so I don't understand the concerns that Mrs Ouwehand is pointing out here. By the way, I did see Mrs Ouwehand on a video today. Suddenly she was in favour of the peasants. That was kind of special, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u164	You guys look at each other way too much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u165	That's true, Mr. Chairman. I admit that the farmers are completely confused, because their traditional interests here in this house, CDA and VVD, leave them in the cold. So these farmers say: what are we going to get, we suddenly have an ally in the Party for Animals; what kind of democracy is this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u166	Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u167	I would like to come back to the last points raised by Mr Weverling, about the ICS, the new international court. The VVD is always very busy with the level playing field and that it has to be fair in the sense of being honest with companies, so that the profits can be fairly distributed among companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u168	To each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u169	Well, in general, it doesn't make the citizen any better. Can you tell me how honest that level playing field is at the moment when American companies with a leg in Canada are going to have a serious leg, but it will soon be possible to organise via CETA the Netherlands or other Member States within the EU, and not the other way around? If a company in the Netherlands tries to sue an American company through the CETA Convention with Canada, it cannot, because Canada and America have ruled it out under the new treaty that they have concluded together. Can you tell me how honest you think that level playing field is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u170	I believe that with the CETA agreement between the EU and Canada we are organising a good partnership with each other and that the ICS, the Investment Court System, which has been rigged, is good. That's where independent judges come in. There is transparency in this, on procedural documents, on all kinds of issues. That's also important. So I don't see what Mrs. Diks is so afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u171	I regret this to a great extent and I am so afraid that you will regret it in a while. It is clear that what I am saying is true. American...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u172	I'd doubt that too!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u173	That would be a shame. You can look it up. I looked it up, too. American companies can indeed sue companies from the Netherlands or other Member States through CETA, but that cannot be the other way around. So what you do if you agree with CETA is that you actually weaken the position of Dutch business, European business, compared to Canadian or American companies. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u174	What I think of that is the following. The ICS is in line with European law. Dutch law, administrative law hardly differs from that. Ghost stories are being created here again that I do not support at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u175	What I am beginning to find so tiresome in this debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u176	At least that's where we'll find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u177	Yeah, we happen to be. We keep saying to each other: huh, what ghost stories, what frames, what miserable things. It might be nice if we really talked and really tried to reach a good decision on CETA. With that whole picture of you, which is a kind of mantra, that ICS is good and modern and should really be there, you are attacking the position of a lot of companies and citizens, especially in the Netherlands and in the EU. I find it truly regrettable that you do not want to think further than your own mantra that it is all good and modern and that this should be the golden standard. If only this were the golden standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u178	European law is a guiding principle. Let that be clear. Trial documents shall be public. There's no room for mailbox companies. Judges shall be appointed for a fixed term. There's an appeal. A claim before the national court must be withdrawn at the time you wish to appeal to the ICS. So these things can't run parallel. Well, there are a number of things you can mention. All the ghost stories Mrs Diks is talking about, I can really refer to the realm of fables.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u179	I would like to know from Mr Weverling what he thinks about Canada having negotiated this part of it in another treaty, namely with the United States and Mexico, and it is not prepared to do so with the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u180	I think I have just answered questions about the ICS components, about the issues we can do with Canada and about the value we must attach to that Investment Court System. I think my answer to that was crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u181	It's gonna be a little difficult to debate this way. Mr Weverling is a third or fourth spokesperson of the VVD and we are going to make an important decision here for the Netherlands. That is why it is important for me to be able to conduct this debate properly. That is why I ask Mr Weverling what he thinks about the fact that our treaty partner, which we are talking about today, took that clause, which is very much opposed in the Netherlands, out of another treaty and that it is still in the treaty with us. How does Mr Weverling feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u182	It is clear that the Investment Court System, the dispute resolution system, is only invoking when there are disputes, that European law is simply leading and that ICS is only being pulled out of the box when it is on the agenda. Eighty bilateral investment treaties have been concluded in recent years, not with Canada but with other countries. A formal claim has never been filed. Here again ghost stories are told and smoke curtains raised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u183	This is a piece which Mr Weverling has well memorized, but it is not an answer to my question. We are now dealing with the situation in which we have an obsolete treaty which contains a clause that is no longer contained in the new treaties that the European Union concludes, which has been removed from the treaty that our treaty partner Canada has with other countries. We are about to agree to this outdated clause. And a ghost story here is that it would be all or nothing that CETA would be off the table if we were against it. We can simply ask the cabinet to go back to the negotiating table and simply remove this outdated, obsolete clause.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u184	The question is whether we can do so and whether we want to do so. It is now inextricably linked to the major CETA Convention. That's a question ahead of you. That is what we are going to vote on Tuesday. I can only appeal to common sense in the sense that we take into account the greater interest and not just participation interests.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u185	I have to help my colleague, Mr Diks, because of course it is true: there is an asymmetry in the system because Canada and the US have ruled it out. That's right. Absolutely right. The only question is how bad that is. My question to Mr Weverling is therefore: do you agree with me that this is only going to play, apart from the fact that I do not think it has any influence at all on the level playing field, if at some point the Dutch government decides to do something apeert unreasonable, so expropriation without compensation, for example? Do you agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u186	I agree with Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u187	Look, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u188	Let's go back. I just heard Mr Weverling say about stopping this treaty: the question is whether we can do so. Can he explain that statement? We can stop this as a parliament, can't we? That's possible, isn't it? If we say no, it's not gonna happen, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u189	I think I said that on a question from Mr Alkaya. Yeah, it could be. If we vote against each other, we can stop this treaty. My appeal is that we should certainly not do that, that this is a very good treaty between the EU and Canada and that we should recognise the greater importance. I hope to get you this far, too, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u190	No, okay. That is clear, but just for the sake of clarity, because this is, of course, typical of how the European Union works: it has entered into force for the time being. When did we see that again? Oh, yes, with the association agreement with Ukraine. That had already entered into force for the time being. We then held a referendum. That has now been abolished. It has become impossible to vote on this, but this is actually very much the same. This is another thing that comes into force for the time being and brings with it a great deal of transfer of sovereignty. Then people too, including VVD people, said: no, but that treaty will come anyway. But it is very important to realise that we can still stop this. The European Union is playing a dirty game by allowing it to enter into force for the time being in order to maximise the pressure. Then it will be very difficult to say no as a country, but the Walls have done so. We could do the same. We can just stop this. We can send it back to the negotiating table. And I'd appreciate it if you could recognize that very clearly one more time. You may not be in favour of doing that, but we can do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u191	I agree with Mr Baudet. Of course, we could wipe this treaty off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u192	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u193	But we do not, because it is a good treaty. The Convention has already entered into force. Only, which has not yet entered into force, is that one component: the ICS component. The rest already goes like a train and our exports also go like a train: more than 23%. So I'd say, Mr. Baudet, you should recognize that, too, shouldn't you? He's just happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u194	It is good to hear Mr Weverling acknowledge that Parliament decides these things in the last instance. Whether or not it is adopted will have to prove, not only here but also in the Senate. I think it might be exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u195	I suggest you move on, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's exciting for sure and that's too bad, because it shouldn't be exciting. I believe that there is a kind of trade shame in the Netherlands and that we do not recognise enough with each other how the Netherlands has grown and on which we have built prosperity together. We have a lot of jobs. We have over 2 million people who depend on exports abroad. They just make their living with that. A lot of things are also simply paid for by trade, not directly but, of course, indirectly. So let's not forget that with each other. I regret that it is often not about content but about anti-trading and that there is some sort of protectionist thing, a sort of radical economic agenda that you say to each other: we should not want it. Looks like it's gonna be some kind of fashion to be against trade with each other. I am glad that there are also parties in favour of trade. Politics isn't just about redistributing or spending. The money needs to be earned first. Well, what a coincidence that Mrs. Van den Hul wants to interrupt when we talk about redistributing and spending.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u197	This is how we know the VVD: on the breach for e.g. the Netherlands, long live the trade!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u198	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u199	Don't get me wrong: the PvdA is also happy with extra jobs. But the question we have to ask ourselves here is: at the expense of what? Surely the VVD cannot deny that inequality is growing all over the world, that the rich are getting richer, that the gap with the poorest is getting deeper by the day, and that is the most important point I want to make here. The growing critical voice against trade agreements such as CETA has everything to do with that. Surely the VVD can't deny that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u200	But then what's the solution? No more trading? Isn't it all about being able to trade in a decent, sustainable way? The Netherlands is good at that. It is innovative, ingenious and always knows how to think of something that makes people better in the world. Look at our fantastic agriculture and horticulture sector. Look at a project like SeedNL. We go around the world with our seeds and help all kinds of parties in all kinds of countries. That's fantastic. The Netherlands is large in seed production. The Netherlands is big in greenhouse construction. The Netherlands is large in the maritime sector. We can all do that well. There are a lot of SDGs that need to be met. You'll have to fill out every package of paper. I am glad that there are still a number of parties standing on the fence and saying: let's not make it too difficult; we also need to trade. You think Canada is the Congo, but we simply want to make a very nice treaty with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u201	I will really leave that comparison on Mr Weverling's behalf. The point is that fair trade can contribute to the implementation of the SDG agenda, and that is where we find each other. But my point is that much of the trade that is currently being driven around the world is bringing that SDG agenda farther away than ever before. Mr. Weverling just asked me the question: what then? Well, we need to make sure that there are sufficient safeguards, so that fair trade really gets its hands and feet. The CETA Convention can certainly play an important role in this, but we must better safeguard that balance between the interests of companies and the interests of people and the environment on the one hand. That is precisely the main concern that a lot of people, both in the Netherlands and in Canada and worldwide, have against trade agreements in their present form. That is the point I am making here today and many with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u202	It is a pity that Mrs van den Hul is running away, because I regret that she is making such a big point. It's like there's criminals working in commercial companies. Trade provides jobs, provides prosperity and a lot of people in the Netherlands just work at a company and thus simply ensure that the football association.I just mention a cross street. So I get that you've never worked at a commercial company or maybe been inside... Oh, now we're gonna get it. Yeah, did you work there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u203	I would advise Mr Weverling to study my CV a little better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u204	Yes, I had prepared myself for Mrs Ploumen and not for Mrs Van den Hul. So I do not know where you have worked. Which commercial company did you work with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u205	Where have you worked, Mrs Van den Hul?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u206	That does not seem to me to be part of this debate. Mr Weverling could have prepared himself better, as he would have known that I was the spokesman for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. But he still hasn't answered my fundamental question as to how we can ensure that trade agreements guarantee fair trade in the future, so that that SDG agenda is actually being taken away instead of getting in the way. Because that gap between rich and poor worldwide, that this inequality is increasing daily, the VVD cannot deny that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u207	The VVD certainly doesn't deny that. The VVD denies... What shall I say about it, Mrs Van den Hul? It's just a trade thing. We have the SDGs, we have agreements for international corporate social responsibility, which is a mouthful that we all have to comply with. Dutch companies are ideally suited to helping the world and helping the Netherlands, doing good business for the Netherlands but also helping the world. I have just mentioned a number of examples, so I would like you to look into them a little more and simply support this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u208	It is in itself positive to hear that Mr Weverling still sees the Netherlands as a guide country, but then a bit unfortunate in the wrong direction. I had another question for Mr Weverling. We can see that in the last two years of the current activity of CETA, trade in oil and petroleum products has increased very much: by hundreds of million euros, on both sides, from our side to Canada slightly more than the other way around. Can you then explain to me how all this relates to the objectives of the Climate Agreement, which the VVD also endorses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u209	This is precisely what this is all about and what is so disturbing: the commercial shame. Of course, we have signed the Climate Agreement. Canada has also signed the Paris Climate Agreement. So if that's leading, then we can just make a deal with the Canadians. Let's just shake off that trade shame and be proud of what we produce in the Netherlands, all those beautiful products that we trade all over the world, that make the world better and that make us better. There are all kinds of progressive countries that should appeal to those who have already signed this agreement: Sweden, Finland, Denmark. Mr Trudeau in Canada is also someone you should address, or at least your party leader, who has a poster in his bedroom. So I'd think...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u210	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u211	Well, I saw a picture of those asshole pajamas once, and I think there was a poster next to it. No, that's bullshit, of course. But let's not close our eyes to this business, Mrs. Diks. It's a real shame you haven't noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u212	I understand that the VVD and Mr Weverling have been thinking for a long time about what frame they can make of this. Because there is not really a good frame to come up with, but you have found one: trade shame. That really is a completely absurd frame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u213	That's good, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u214	Yeah, but it's a bit of a shame it doesn't make any sense. It's a nice word, but it doesn't make any sense. There is no question of GroenLinks saying in general: there should be no trade. I understand you want to push me into that booth, but that's just bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u215	Only not with Canada, because that country does not meet our standards. No, which country is it, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u216	I was still in my interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u217	We want trade agreements, but not with a western country like Canada! Well, come on, then, what else? Finland, Sweden, Denmark... They've all ratified it! But there's nothing else you can say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u218	Are you all right, Mr. Weverling?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u219	Yeah, I'm fine. The essence of this feeling in my toes is the irritation of the commercial shame. Very left Netherlands, also here in the Chamber, makes it sound like it's all going to be a bit of a mess. We have to earn it. That entrepreneur at home has to earn it. He's doing his best to build a nice company with his employees. If we can't even do business with Canada, then who can?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u220	Mrs Diks has the floor. You can't talk in between, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u221	It seems that we are almost ready for a break, or at least that Mr Weverling is ready for it and that he needs a calmer drink. Of course, this is a little hysterical, I'd say. Of course, it is not true that GroenLinks does not want to trade. We've never said that before. You've never heard me say that here in this house. We stand for trade that is fair, sustainable and green. That is what we want to encourage. You end up in a completely different debate about jerk pajamas and photos, but I'm not talking about that at all. I asked you: how does the commitment of the Dutch People's Party (VVD) to the development and objective of the Climate Agreement relate to the fact that hundreds of millions more have already been earned from petroleum products in the commercial part of CETA? How do you rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u222	This Convention has entered into force and benefits this sector as well. That's what you recognize and what's happening. In the end, we agree that the SDGs, which we endorse with each other, which the Minister is a warm advocate of and which stand for fair, sustainable and green business, are extremely important. But in the end, they must not be an obstacle and they must simply trade. Because the schools, libraries and things like that all have to be paid for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u223	Schools and libraries have of course also become left-wing hobbies. Well, thank you very much...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u224	Definitely not. I'd love to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u225	... because that's what we like to be rubbed at. But I find it a little strange that you want to bring it this way. As soon as we pollute more, we have the more incentive to eventually get better. That is a really crazy argument; Mr Van Haga had it earlier. Isn't that a reasoning that doesn't touch side by side? My question to you is: when will the VVD start meeting the objectives of the Climate Agreement? That's not gonna happen to CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u226	I believe that we have made very clear agreements on this matter. GroenLinks has also contributed to this. Working together is what you do. It is just so nice that the CETA Convention does the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u227	I take a little offense at the phrase that "we" can't make a good deal with Canada or that "we" don't want to trade with Canada. Even the PVV wants to trade with Canada. You use that "we" as if it were the Netherlands, but it is the EU that cannot conclude a proper trade agreement with Canada. We would be very capable of that. So I would like to propose to Mr Weverling that we ask this minister together to pick up the phone tomorrow, call the Canadians and conclude a wonderful agreement with the Netherlands which is positive for all sectors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u228	Of course we can call Canada. But that's not what's in store right now. There's a law that's been negotiated for a long time. The EU has the mandate to negotiate this with Canada. That's what's in store. Because it is about the EU, you are by definition voting against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u229	Indeed, today CETA is ahead of us. But that's a bad deal. You, too, have said that there are parts in which you are less fond. We can just make a nice deal with Canada, without ICS, because we don't need that between Canada and the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u230	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u231	Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u232	So that's actually my proposal. Let's just make a deal that's positive for our industry, without all the shitty stuff that's in CETA right now. Why don't you choose that? I can also give you the answer: the EU cannot do that. Isn't that the essence of why we're talking about a bad deal? It's the EU's job.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u233	Mr. Van Weerd...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u234	Mr Van Weerdenburg. Well, who knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u235	Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u236	Then we need to talk. Shall I get on my knees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u237	It's that punk-ass pyama and shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u238	Mrs. Weverling. Mrs. Van Weerdenburg. Madam President. Geopolitically, there are a number of trading blocs. The EU is such a trading bloc. That is an important trading block. We matter in the world. The Netherlands alone is a boxer who fights above his weight, because we just do a lot of good, handsome business. We're not much in the world on our own. We need each other to work together. That is what we do in the EU context. And in the EU context, we do business with Canada. The CETA Convention is now before us. I see no reason to vote against it. If we are going to vote against it, we must indeed talk to Canada again. The Netherlands does not do that itself, but the EU does so. No one will benefit from this, because then we will fall back on WTO rules and then we will go back to all import tariffs. It doesn't help anyone. It's gonna make everything more expensive. And prosperity and jobs are becoming much less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u239	Finally. We have a former UN top negotiator here as Foreign Trade Minister. And that couldn't make a nice deal? Do I have to defend your own minister now? That's kind of sad, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u240	It is also Mrs Van Weerdenburg's minister. It's all of us, Minister. And not Madam Secretary of State has negotiated this. Mrs Ploumen did that. She did a very good job. I've already complimented you on that. We have to say yes or no on Tuesday. I'm just trying to make it clear that we're taking the greater interest into consideration. When all we're talking about is Dutch interests... What if we vote against it? Other EU countries will suffer as well. You are destroying not only the Netherlands, but other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u241	I would just like to comment on the point where Mr Weverling got very angry and actually accused us all of being against trade in general. It lacks the complexity of what we're going to vote on if we're going to pretend there's a part in the Chamber that just wants to trade, and a part in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u242	That it just wants to spend. Yes, that's right, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u243	No, that's not true. If that's what you think, you're really unfit to make a decision about this later. But I am convinced that Mr Weverling does not think so and that he is only using it rhetorically. That is why I have the following question. We are actually talking about whether we should abolish tariffs or not, so whether we should maintain tariffs on certain products. For example, we are dealing with a production process in Canada where lower standards apply and where cheaper production can be achieved. Is it not right, then, to charge an import tariff, not to obtain price differences here in the Netherlands between products produced under lower standards and Dutch products produced under higher standards?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u244	On the contrary, clear agreements have been made on quotas and on tariff reductions when goods from vulnerable sectors are exported to the Netherlands. So I think it's a very balanced agreement that's now in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u245	I don't think so. We are talking very specifically about something in the Treaty: 75 000 tonnes of pigmeat duty-free. This means that there will be 75,000 tonnes of pork coming to the Netherlands that has been produced under lower standards. Isn't that detrimental to farmers here, who have to do with higher standards? Mr Weverling sees that, doesn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u246	Look, pork from the Netherlands is of the highest quality. Even the parma ham comes from the Netherlands, just like the bacon from the English breakfast. So I do not understand the problem that Mr Alkaya is dealing with. Our pork itself is of good quality, so I wouldn't be afraid of competition at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u247	Let me conclude with the recommendation to dive into this treaty before the VVD votes on this on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u248	I do not fully follow Mr Weverling either. He talks about free trade for and free trade and about opportunities for the Willie Roots in the Netherlands, who come up with great inventions and can establish a patent or copyright on them; that is good trading. But think of those boarded-up patents, i.e. intellectual property, which are established by the Willie Roots of Canada, by pharmaceutical companies that make large profits on drugs, which makes medicine increasingly expensive for the normal people. Isn't that contrary to free trade? After all, the market is being boarded up, and that creates a monopoly for multinationals, which is of no benefit to the Netherlands at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u249	I said that this CETA Convention is good for our innovation, and that the intellectual property of Dutch Willie Roots is recognised in Canada. It is therefore very good for the Netherlands, with all its innovations, to do business in such a beautiful and modern country as Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u250	I would like to point out to Mr Weverling that the constructions of intellectual property are seen by the Harvard Law School as a monopoly, which opposes free trade and which is really only the big business and not the little Willie Root from the Netherlands. With the establishment of intellectual property on what they have invented, through subsidiaries which in turn establish them in a kind of tax haven, it is very easy to avoid many types of tax. That's not good for the Netherlands either. I would therefore advise Mr Weverling to look very closely at this treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u251	I've certainly already done that and there's really no need to do that again before Tuesday. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's speech was about taxation and about Willie Roots. What I mean to say is that innovation really doesn't come from multinationals alone. That could even happen in an attic room. There are many smaller SMEs, the backbone of our economy, who employ Willie Roots. They can work with patents and that is very well protected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u252	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u253	That's what I was trying to say. We have already said a lot, Madam President. I wanted to break a lance for shaking off the trade shame. Well, we've had quite an interrupting debate on that. If we can't make a deal with Canada, then who can? That has also been said a few times this afternoon, but the present treaty would not be good enough. Canada and we, the EU, even support the Paris Agreement. So we can sign this treaty with each other. I am really sorry that economic cooperation is under pressure worldwide. We are seeing more and more protectionism. That's a shame. So let us just compete on the basis of reciprocity. That is the strength of Dutch trade, the open Dutch economy. I hope, therefore, that the Chamber will also look at the greater interests rather than just the partial interests. There are many countries that have already ratified the Convention. I have good hope that the Netherlands will be the next country in that list. Many other Social Democrats are also in favour, for example in Sweden. I would therefore like to say that on weekends, please make a call to the party members in other European countries. There's a decent, balanced agreement. As far as I am concerned, it is good for our SMEs, for our farmers and for our jobs in general. Fair trade, that's what this treaty is about, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u254	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Before I give the floor to Mr Jetten, I should like to suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u255	I'm reopening the meeting. We were supposed to suspend for five minutes, so I hope the rulers come back. I give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u256	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by saying that CETA is a good treaty for the Netherlands in a broad sense, for most sectors. Otherwise, we wouldn't have closed it. In fact, if this was not a good treaty for the Netherlands, I would be standing here differently. However, this treaty is really good for the Netherlands. The Free Trade Agreement with Canada is good for workers, consumers and SMEs. Companies will have new and better access to a market of 35 million people. Consumers have more to choose at a lower price. The Convention not only brings economic benefits, but also enables cooperation on important issues such as sustainability, labour rights and animal welfare. For example, CETA states that both the EU and Canada undertake not to reduce labour rights in order to obtain trade benefits and that the right of governments to regulate in all areas, including climate change, is established. Some sensitive sectors remain protected under the Convention with Canada. For example, chicken meat, egg products and eggs are excluded. Meat with growth hormones does not enter the EU, even with CETA. In addition, the Convention agreed on cooperation in the field of animal welfare. The adapted free trade agreement is a good example of the balanced, rules-based and progressive trade and investment agreements that the European Commission intends to conclude in future. It would be a contradiction to refuse an agreement with Canada. Trade agreements are a means of strengthening our shared values, of managing globalisation, of strengthening the social state rather than of weakening it. All in all, a balanced outcome has been achieved, and the Netherlands, as one of the most open trading countries within the EU, can benefit greatly. With Canada, which houses progressive thinkers, doers and politicians. Mr. Chairman. To prevent me later from being accused of plagiarism: all the lyrics I have spoken so far are from the PvdA'ers Lilianne Ploumen, Lodewijk Asscher and Frans Timmermans. Lovely words from three Social Democrats on the Free Trade Agreement with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u257	I assume that Mr Jetten is quoting these quotes because he agrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u258	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u259	Yeah, I see him nodding. I believe there is a bit of competition left, but D66 insists that a circular vision has been agreed and that it has been incorporated into the coalition agreement. It is a bit of a question whether Minister Schouten gets the credits for that or Tjeerd de Groot of D66, but D66 is for that. Does the D66 circular vision mean that it is so spacious that dragging agricultural products back and forth to Canada fits within that cycle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u260	Indeed, I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand that we must make this shift to circular agriculture and produce our food in a different way, with less impact on nature and on the environment and more respect for animal welfare than is already the case. We can produce a lot of our food closer to home here and sell it to consumers closer to home. For me, it is not an end in itself to be yet another largest export nation in terms of food and agricultural products. That does not alter the fact that you can conclude free trade agreements so that you can make good agreements with like-minded countries about the trade that does take place between those countries. What I like about CETA is that for the first time in such a free trade agreement we have explicitly said to each other: we commit ourselves to the signed Paris agreement on climate change and we are going to do everything we can to prevent global warming. Part of this is, of course, that we are dealing with our agricultural sector in a different way. We do not have that in the Netherlands or in Canada overnight. We can now sit down regularly with the Canadians to talk about how we can modernise and make agriculture more sustainable here in Europe and in Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u261	That's a crazy answer. D66 says that agriculture must be organized more regionally. We have also heard D66 about importing soya from Latin America intended for animal feed. You should stop doing that. Just do that in Europe. Like we can't grow soy here. That's on the one hand the vision of D66. On the other hand, D66 says: a treaty that makes it easier for Canadian farmers to send their products all the way to Europe, cheap, tasty with poison that we have banned here and with animal welfare standards that are much lower than in Europe, we also think that is circular farming. Or what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u262	Here comes the fear that there are now massive hormone meat and all kinds of other products coming this way. There are 36 companies certified in Canada to export beef to the European Union. So these are 36 companies, in an immensely large country, that meet European standards. The meat of these companies can be sold here in the shops to the Dutch consumer. So that is not so bad, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. Of course, I prefer that consumers buy products from close to home in the Dutch supermarket. I hope that consumers, if they grab a piece of meat in the store, will see where it comes from and then opt for Dutch quality meat produced close to home, based on the highest standards of animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u263	I was not talking about hormone meat, but now that Mr Jetten is talking about it: how promising does he think that certification is actually being controlled? I do not know if he knows, but tomorrow we will have an important debate on NVWA. There's no way we're gonna be able to monitor this place. So don't bring that up. I talked about arable products that can be grown by Canadian farmers with toxins that are banned here. On this point, we have always had D66 on our side. When D66 began to rule, it became a little more difficult. But that's where we have to go. When it comes to animal welfare, we are talking about the even lower standards in Canada compared to the European rules for keeping pigs. D66 votes in the European Parliament in favour of strengthening that legislation. Then you cannot make it to your own farmers to say: you know what, we give the European market even more gift. Export will always take place, but if you abolish the tariffs, you strengthen the competition and work directly against your own recycling plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u264	Two points on this. First of all, this whole debate has already given the impression that Dutch farmers are the major victims of the free trade agreement with Canada. Let me take a look at the facts. The Treaty has been in force for some two years now for 80%. Who's gonna take advantage of that? Among other things, the Dutch agricultural sector. For example, 250% of Dutch cheese tariffs have now suddenly been reduced to 0%, so that Dutch cheese produced here for a decent price can be sold to Canadian consumers. It is therefore Dutch farmers who benefit from a market of 17 million Canadians. At first, they could hardly reach that market because of towering tariffs, but now they can sell their products there. So Dutch farmers benefit from the Free Trade Agreement with Canada. I fully agree with Mrs Ouwehand that we must also ensure that we make the transition to circular agriculture and continue to improve animal welfare. The crucial difference between D66 and the Animal Party is that I believe that by working together, we can make agreements and talk to the Canadians every time about how they organized it there, even there eventually get the standards to the European levels. If you don't, if you don't have the courage to conclude international treaties, it's the Chinese and the Russians who set the standards in the world. I prefer to do this with European standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u265	It's getting really confusing. When a party itself talks about circular agriculture and says that CETA is good because the European dairy farmers can export cheese, do you immediately step away from the vision that you do impose on the Minister of LNV? The Minister of LNV must therefore roll that out, while D66..... and I support................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This will also have a real impact on dairy farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u266	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u267	So what you're now counting as a profit is that we can export dairy products to Canada, because those prices are low, because the dairy sector is going to be smaller. But what you are giving away, the export of pork to Europe, the export of arable products full of poison to Europe, of course, you will not get it back. So the dairy sector is gonna shrink, they're gonna export less, pig farming is gonna shrink, which is gonna increase your competition from Canada. Why doesn't D66 look further forward from no matter what her own circular vision and what...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u268	At the risk of turning it into a circular agricultural debate: it is not, of course, that if you commit yourself to circular agriculture, you would never be able to trade anything around the world that has to do with our food chain.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u269	We're not saying that!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u270	If you're betting together... Together, you and I want to get rid of coal power plants in the Netherlands and fossil-fired energy, so that we don't have to bring that shit to the Netherlands from all over the world to make energy here. You can do that with wind, with sun, with hydrogen. That is a change that we need to put together over the next ten or twenty years in order to achieve that sustainable transition. But that doesn't mean you're going to raise the dikes further, you're going to close the borders and you're not going to be allowed to act with each other in any way. And what does this free trade agreement do with Canada? It doesn't say: we open everything up and everything has to be possible. No, it removes the tariffs from that trade so that you can facilitate a fairer and cheaper price for the consumer. And it makes it possible for governments to continue raising these standards together, to appeal to each other to the fact that we have signed the Paris Agreement, that we want to improve animal welfare, that we want to improve workers' rights. That's part of this treaty with Canada: sit around the table together, step forward together, and eventually get out of your ideal world.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u271	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u272	Mr Jetten should not make a caricature of it. No one raises the dikes. We are simply dealing with Canada and what this treaty is doing is saying: we are digging these dikes for agricultural products; we are abolishing import tariffs. That is what this treaty does. You can be for that or you can be against it. But as a party that forces the circular vision and that also in the nitrogen crisis I support it and in the climate crisis I also support it: that agriculture must be changed, I do not think that you can do it to put the peasant unrest that is resulting from it completely on the plate of the Christian Union Minister and have your own minister carry out all plans that are directly contrary to it. I think that D66 should also take its part in this and give farmers the protection they rightly ask for, given all the changes they have to go through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u273	Part of this protection has been imposed when it comes to egg products, when it comes to poultry. It is not the case that pork or beef from Canada can be exported endlessly here without tariffs. That is also what has been agreed. The crux is that thanks to trade, thanks to free trade, international cooperation has been able to increase global prosperity over the past 50 years, that poverty is decreasing worldwide, that we are slowly getting closer to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals. Fortunately, over the last few years, we have also had discussions about the downside of globalisation and free trade without regard for the weakest in society. That debate has been tilted over the past few years, and that is good. That is why it is precisely with like-minded countries like Canada that you should continue to conclude these trade agreements so that we can raise the bar for the whole world. If there are other countries in the world that are also keen to deal with the largest trading bloc in the world, namely the European Union, then we will say to them: that is possible, but look at the free trade agreement with Canada, because that is the new basis and the line is only going up. If you want to act with Europe, then you have to comply with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and we will work together to take a step in the right direction in animal welfare as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u274	This evening's debate began with Mr Jetten's disappointment that he had to have sex with me tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u275	That had nothing to do with you personally, Mrs Van den Hul. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u276	I hope so, thank you. I, for my part, regret that I cannot have a debate this evening with a colleague from Mr Jetten, Mr Bouali, with whom we are working together in the protection of civil society, a subject that I know is also very much concerned with D66, which I also know is very close to the Minister's heart. We see a shrinking civil society worldwide, and we often stick together when it comes to, for example, the protection of lbht rights, of the rainforest or of human rights defenders, all of which are unfortunately all too topical. That brings me to the main concern of my group in the debate this evening, namely: how do we ensure that the voice of human rights defenders, trade unions or environmental activists, which we all see as being under increasing pressure, can be heard at least as well as the voice of companies? We can see that at the moment this is not sufficiently secured within ICS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u277	First of all, it's like we're concluding a free trade agreement with some crooked state or something. We'll do that with Canada. When it comes to defending human rights and you name it all, we often hang out with Canada, and that is good. We now see that Canada, for the first time, has also accepted a number of very important chapters of the ILO, the international organisation for workers' rights, such as the right to association, to trade unions. This is now better regulated in Canada thanks to CETA. There are a number of other examples, including strengthening labour inspectorates in Canada. In this way, you can see that this free trade agreement in Canada has also raised the standards of civil society. On ICS, Mrs Van den Hul and I agree that it is not the ideal. I would prefer to have a multilateral court that can rule on investment disputes for the whole world. That is the ideal of this cabinet, and so was the previous cabinet. I think that's widely shared in this Chamber. But such a multilateral, global court, of course, can only be established if a very large group of countries wishes to join. CETA, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, is the first time we have a much better dispute resolution. Former Minister Ploumen has made very strong efforts to ensure that there are independent judges appointed for a longer period of time, that there are transparent sessions where people can go, and that third parties, such as NGOs and trade unions, can also provide evidence for these trials. That is therefore a major step in the right direction in relation to the situation now. My appeal to this cabinet would be: do not sit back, satisfied with ICS, no, use ICS to continue the talks in the World Trade Organisation and to convince other countries that we should go to such a multilateral court. If Mrs Van den Hul wants to fight with me for civil society to have an even better position there than at ICS, she will find me on her side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u278	Those are fine words, but still the deeds. Let us be honest, the ICS does not yet provide for, for example, trade unions, human rights defenders or environmentalists themselves to make their voice heard. Yeah, they can be heard, but they don't have an equal position with companies. Mr Jetten is now putting a dot on the horizon, and that is indeed a dot we share. That multilateral court must be established, and we certainly agree with each other. But why not now with a coalition of the willing in Europe to ensure that in the treaty we are talking about tonight, investment protection becomes genuine protection of interests? This is not just about the economic interests of companies, but also about the interests of human rights and the environment, on which we agree that they are increasingly under pressure worldwide. Why not give confidence to this minister: will this be regulated in this treaty with a number of other forerunners in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u279	I think it's real We have negotiated this free trade agreement with Canada for just under 11 years. The final result is now before us. With ICS, this is a major step in the right direction with regard to ISDS; excuse for all abbreviations, Madam President. But let's conclude this free trade agreement with each other. Let us say to the whole world: this is where we set the bar minimum, and we want to move forward, we want to move towards such a multilateral court and we call on all countries to join us in such a coalition of the willing. Then I'm going to quote former Minister Ploumen. In the previous debate with our Chamber on the Free Trade Agreement in June 2016, she said: "There are different ideas about ICS, but it is a significant improvement. ICS is not there to give foreign investors an advantage over domestic investors, but to protect them from discrimination against domestic investors." Of course, that's the crux. You need dispute resolution because, unfortunately, in some countries, the rule of law is not so strong and therefore, as an SME or as a larger company, you run the risk of being disproportionately affected by government arbitrariness. For this purpose, the dispute settlement process has been established. In addition, we have a very good rule of law in the Netherlands, as well as in many other countries, in which civil society can go to court if you think that business or government is negligent. See Urgenda, see nitrogen! This is civil society that the government has given a slap on the wrist. So that route is open.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u280	Finally, Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u281	That's the whole point. We are not against investment protection, but we want it to be better than it is now. We want this access to civil society to be guaranteed. If we hear Mr Jetten say that this is now the best we can do and that in the future we are going to go on with similar countries, then I think: why not raise the bar now? We still need to negotiate with countries where the rule of law is much less robust than in Canada or the Netherlands. Trade agreements with countries such as China, countries in Asia are still coming... You can fill out the list. I'm not even talking about Brazil. If we look at CETA as a blueprint, as an excellent opportunity to truly establish fair trade in trade agreements where we take all the conditions as optimally as possible with the coalition of the willing, why now settle for less....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Why not guarantee all the maximum possible now, and thus also that access better?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u282	Of course, we also have to be a little realistic with each other. Negotiations for this Free Trade Agreement began in 2009. That's what we've been doing for years. Thanks to the commitment of the previous cabinet, with Lilianne Ploumen as the great warrior for fairer dispute resolution, the ICS that is now in it is fortunately many times better than the investment protection we already know. We should celebrate that success with each other. Then let us not only fight for the ideal in the future; that can just be parallel to each other. As far as I am concerned, we are calling on this cabinet to start doing so today, if we have not already done so with each other. But please don't throw away the baby with the bath water because it can get even better in the future. If we start negotiating again now, we'll be years away. Then I'd rather start talking about that multilateral agreement now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u283	The core message from Mr Jetten to the Labour Party is actually today: do not turn, stick to your point of view. I find it extremely remarkable that there will be no similar message to the Christian Union, for example. That is what I would expect, if we were to expect one line of D66 in this debate. But that aside. In protecting foreign investors we see an international trend. We see that the European Union is abandoning it, but we also see that Canada has withdrawn that protection from the United States and Mexico. What does Mr Jetten think of this development? Isn't it much better to have this settled properly on the front, rather than having to renegotiate, as they did in Canada, the United States and Mexico, where there has been a renegotiation of President Trump? You'd better do it right in one go, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u284	This is simply a good free trade agreement that is good for Dutch jobs and good for our exports. We can make money from it and it raises the bar to all kinds of standards. This is not a treaty between the Netherlands and Canada alone. As I said earlier in an interruption, we probably wouldn't have invented the ICS together if it had been a treaty between the Netherlands and Canada alone. But Canada is concluding a treaty with 27 EU Member States, thus facing 27 states of law and seeking to protect Canadian investors from it. I understand that, however, when you see the rule of law in some European countries at the moment. I also want the Dutch SME investor who invests in Canada or who invests in any country in Africa to be protected from the investments he makes at that time, not to sue against legislation that a country may make for the protection of nature or the climate, but to do so in the case of arbitrariness and a government which, without giving any reason, moves to expropriation of investment from companies. We must also protect our SMEs from this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u285	It is not for me to judge foreign states of law in this debate. However, I really wonder whether Mr Jetten has so much more confidence in the rule of law in Mexico, because this was in the Canada-Mexico treaty, but has been removed from it than in the rule of law in Poland, Hungary or Romania. These are perhaps the countries we are talking about today, theoretically, because specific countries do not want to mention Mr Jetten. We could ask the Canadians. We could say: "You have taken such an unjust system out of that one treaty. We have a treaty like this. We are about to approve that in the Dutch Parliament. Will we not get it right and prevent us from having to renegotiate later, and will we just get it out of this treaty? Then we have arranged it well for the future and for future generations at once." Isn't that highly plausible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u286	So I do not share the fear or the risks that some people see here at the ICS. It is many times better than the current system we have with transparent court cases, judges appointed for a longer period of time and the possibility for third parties to submit evidence. It has just been discussed in several interrupt debates: the Dutch State has never been sued in recent decades with an appeal to investment protection. So we're not at great risk here. We are only showing to the rest of the world: we can make better agreements with each other towards a multilateral agreement on how to organise investment protection in this way. The crucial point on which my group has assessed this point is the question: will companies be able to sue the Dutch State for disagreeing with Dutch policy? I do not want a company to sue us because we are working here with a climate agreement on the implementation of the Paris agreements. That's what the treaty really says. This has also been explained very clearly recently by Frans Timmermans. This treaty does not allow companies to sue a state if they disagree with political policy choices that we make with each other. Since that guarantee is in there, I can agree to this treaty, including the ICS in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u287	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u288	Finally. Mr Jetten says it would be better than what we have now. That is completely nonsense, because Canadian multinationals now simply have to go to court as local entrepreneurs do, as citizens do. That's the way it's supposed to be. Instead of replacing a more unjust system with what we are actually going to settle in a bilateral treaty, it is better to settle it properly or not to do it at all. Otherwise, like the Canadians, the Americans and the Mexicans, we will have to sit at the re-negotiation table. We better do it right at once and do it righteously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u289	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen or Mr Baudet. Who was... Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u290	Is Mr Jetten aware of the European Commission's assessment of the added value of this Treaty to the European economy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u291	I do not know the exact amount or the percentage of economic growth. I can see that we already have about 3.6 billion in trade surplus this year as the Netherlands has been towards Canada since the entry into force of this free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u292	This has been the subject of an economic assessment, an assessment of what that means for all EU countries. According to the European Commission, this is an annual growth of the EU Member States' combined economies of between 1.7 billion and 2.1 billion, in total. So that's 0.01% of the total economy. That is a completely negligible, completely irrelevant number. Mr Jetten is therefore prepared to transfer all our product standards, all our food safety and all the protection of our agricultural sector to a supranational court which we have no control over and which is going to make laws and regulations. Then I'll be sitting across from him at Nieuwsuur again. Then I'm talking about dikastocracy. Then I'm talking about those judges who outdo our democracy. And then he'll say to me, "We'll have to make better laws." Here we are, Mr. Jetten. Here we are, now in the Lower House. In our view, another terrible treaty will hopefully not be signed in the near future, but it will probably be signed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u293	Then Mr Baudet should also read the treaty better, because as a company you cannot go to the ICS, that investment dispute college if you disagree with Dutch legislation or Dutch policy regarding climate, environment, animal welfare or working conditions. That's no ground to go to the ICS. You can only go there as a company if a government has randomly expropriated you. That's protecting entrepreneurs, Mr. Baudet. I'd expect you to be in favour of that, too. You're just saying: it's a dime, it's zero point so much percent. I always take it with a grain of salt when you mention that kind of percentage. Mr Weverling has already explained it very well. The Netherlands has a trade surplus of EUR 3.2 billion with Canada thanks to this Free Trade Agreement. There are 200 Canadian companies currently investing in the Netherlands, 6,500 direct jobs resulting from this. I am not talking about indirect jobs. So there are thousands of Dutch families who get income from the trade we drive with Canada. Finally, what I find a bit cynical about this interruption by Mr Baudet is that today the European Parliament voted on the free trade agreement with Vietnam. Do you know which parties were before that, Madam President? These included D66 and Forum for Democracy. The Forum for Democracy supports the free trade agreement with Vietnam, adopted today in the European Parliament, and that free trade agreement is similar to the trade agreement with Canada that we are discussing here. It can no longer come together in my mind that one part of the Forum in the Second Chamber is fighting against a free trade agreement, while the other part of the Forum in the European Parliament smiles with a big smile, because for the Dutch entrepreneur, raises his hand and adopts such a free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u294	The first major misunderstanding here is that CETA is a free trade agreement. It is a usury pact that imposes supranational powers on us. That is a very important point specifically of CETA. The second point I would like to make is that Mr Jetten says that ICS, that system of justice, is only very limited. That's funny, because that's exactly what they said when that damned European Court of Human Rights was installed. Willem Drees was a great opponent of that. He was an opponent of the European Court of Human Rights, for example because he said: wait a minute, that right to life and all the other rules, which are going to be stretched up; sooner or later there will be a club of left-wing judges there in Strasbourg, which will oblige us to do things that we never originally read in that text. Drees could not have foreseen that Article 2 of the ECHR, the right to life, would be used to impose these absurd climate plans on us. He couldn't have foreseen that. He said, "We won't be able to run immigration policy anymore." He was right about that, too. The same thing is going to happen with this ICS. This CETA Convention is about to be extended. Those judges there are going to extend the scope of those agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u295	We're not talking about the judges, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u296	Yes, it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u297	No, no, no, no, stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u298	... because the CETA Convention brings to life a court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u299	Stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u300	That is the subject, Madam President!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u301	I think it is good in itself that Mr Baudet makes that comparison between international dispute resolution and the European Court of Justice. The reason why you need an international legal order is that national governments sometimes tend to apply political arbitrariness when changing a regime or political governance: whether it is citizens and human rights that are at stake, for which you can go to the European Court, or SMEs who see their investments at risk because a government is going to expropriate at random. For those people and small businesses, it is good that there is also an international legal order where they can go if they are unable to reach their level at national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u302	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u303	Does Mr Jetten know how much of Dutch SME entrepreneurs invest in Canada?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u304	It is currently in particular SMEs that benefit from this trade agreement with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u305	0.16%, Mr. Jetten!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u306	They're syrup waffle manufacturers, they're cheese exporters...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u307	0.16!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u308	Could you calm down a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u309	0.16% of SMEs...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u310	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u311	... is trading with Canada. 0.16%!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u312	Because we're happy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u313	This is not about the SMEs at all. This is about the multinationals!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u314	No, Mr. Baudet. Absolutely not. It may be a small percentage because, fortunately, we have thousands of SMEs in this country. But if you look at all the companies that are now benefiting from the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, it is especially SMEs that are benefiting from it now, since it came into force two years ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u315	Then I'll go to Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u316	I do not have much of a memory of the debate on the association agreement with Ukraine. I'm getting a little flashback now. Back then, D66 said: yes, yes, but we continue to talk to Ukraine about animal welfare, and these are the minimum requirements, and this is an opportunity to raise animal welfare in Ukraine as well. Look where we are now. Then it was about what it means to the Dutch people against the association agreement with Ukraine. Fortunately, Mr Jetten does not have to weigh that down now, because D66 has unfortunately abolished the consultative referendum. The problem now is this. MHP, the puffy chicken king of Ukraine, imports his puffy chicken into the Netherlands. They're being deboned and packaged in Veenendaal. Then they put a Dutch flag on it and everything is okay. The Ukrainian puffy chicken manufacturer is therefore circumventing European legislation. The Association Agreement with Ukraine makes that possible. What kind of minimum standards and confidence in conversations does Mr Jetten have with regard to Canada that we are not being flooded again by products that absolutely do not meet our animal welfare requirements?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u317	Canada is not Ukraine and fortunately we have excluded poultry from this free trade agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u318	That's not my question. It's also about pigs. It is also about animals being transported for 36 hours without food, without drinking, in the cold, in the heat. It's about calves dying during transport. Former Secretary of State Bleker said, I already believe in 2011: "If you don't have enough of your megastal here, you can build an even bigger stable in Canada. Then you have no problems with animal welfare requirements and environmental requirements at all. That's all perfect. I advise those farmers to go there." Even LTO says there are no animal welfare requirements. The animal welfare requirements in CETA are butter soft. What does Mr Jetten have to say about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u319	I may have seen the same footage as Mrs Van Kooten-Ariës of cattle transports in Canada or megas full of them. I get a bad feeling watching those movies, too. We need to appeal to the Canadians, just as we need to do in the case of animal welfare abuses that are still taking place in Europe. That should be on the agenda every day so that we can improve it. What I see is that, among other things, the Canadians, through the conclusion of this free trade agreement, have indeed had the debate on abuses over the last few years. You can also see that the requirements for cattle transport in Canada have been greatly tightened up in recent times. They're not on our level yet, but they're heading in the right direction. Finally, Mr President. At present, imports of pigmeat to the European Union account for only 0.4% of our total market in pigmeat. And fortunately, there are only 36 Canadian cattle farms that are now certified to deal with the European market. I trust the Canadian government and the Canadian inspections to ensure that these 36 companies actually meet European standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u320	Brief question and brief answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u321	The confidence that it will be inspected is precisely what has nurtured us and the farmers with regard to the association agreement with Ukraine. We cannot rely on this, as it turns out, even in Canada, because it does not meet our animal welfare requirements. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u322	And the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u323	Well, it's more of a statement, because I don't understand why Mr Jetten is torpedoing his own circular farming vision and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u324	Yes, you've spoken for two minutes, and you've only been interrupted for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u325	I'll see if I can skip some things in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u326	No, you simply have as much speaking time as others, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This year we celebrate 75 years of freedom. We owe this freedom 75 years ago to an important ally, Canada. Or as former PvdA foreman Willem Drees, he was also mentioned in 1949: Canada, with which we have been connected since the liberation by strong ties of sympathy. It wasn't just then that Canada was on our side. Together with this ally, the Netherlands was at the cradle of the United Nations, we share membership in NATO, we signed the Paris Climate Agreement and we fight together for human rights worldwide. Or as the Labour Party website mentioned a few months ago: "Canada is a democratic country with which we have been working together for a long time. And together we can better act against abuses in China, Russia or other undemocratic countries." Again very justified words, because in these times of strife, dominated by trade wars, Trump's protectionism and China's growing power, like-minded allies are a scarce asset. The Canada of the progressive Prime Minister Trudeau is such an ally. It's not just me. You only have to google on the keywords "Asscher" and "Trudeau" and the warm pictures splash off your screen. As far as D66 is concerned, the free trade agreement we conclude with Canada is an important signal that this kind of agreement is still possible in a world where friendships are no longer self-evident. But not only geopolitics is this treaty important. This free trade agreement has been in force for two years. So we can already say something about its effects on the basis of facts. Trade with Canada has increased by 33%, with us selling much more to the Canadians than the Canadians to us. This means that EUR 3.2 billion remains for Dutch entrepreneurs under the line. Canada is one of the largest investors in our country: currently over 3 billion. This means that the 200 Canadian companies that are based here account for no less than 6,500 direct jobs. In short, the Netherlands, with our open economy, benefits from international trade. That is something that is sometimes forgotten in this Chamber. We earn as much as 34% of our gross domestic product from exports. The Netherlands has a total of EUR 250 billion and 1.3 million direct jobs thanks to our open economy and our willingness to act internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u328	I actually want you to move on. You will have the floor in a moment, Mrs Van den Hul. I just want a little...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u329	Mr. Chairman. Many of the speakers before me have expressed concerns about the standards of food production in Canada, among others. And also D66 is not deaf to this criticism. For example, we have been talking a few times about animal welfare. I too know the stories of the growth hormones and pesticides that are still being used in Canada, when they are already banned here in Europe. But I also see that thanks to this free trade agreement and pressure from the EU, things in Canada are improving. For example, Canada has now ratified eight International Labour Organisation standards, which also commit Canada to concrete agreements on better conditions for workers, such as the right to unite in, for example, a trade union and strengthen labour inspection. I also said that there is a serious debate going on in Canada about improving animal welfare, for example in terms of transport and preventing malnutrition, dehydration and exhaustion in animals. These are essential steps and this proves that sitting around the table, talking to each other can lead to results. I would like to ask the Minister whether she can indicate what other points she sees in her hand with this treaty are the possibilities of raising standards to a higher level in talks with Canada. I can go on, Mr President, as you wish, but I see three colleagues who are eager.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u330	Yeah, that's right. There are two waiting for you, Mrs. Ouwehand. I'll go first to Mrs. Van den Hul and then to Mrs. Diks. Then you will have the floor, because I have just sent them away a little bit. Really.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u331	That's good. I see them so cozy together on a bench; I get a song in my head. But it is true: Mrs van den Hul and Mrs Diks were earlier, so they lead the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u332	Fine. That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u333	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. And compliments on the farm fur dress.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u334	With clogs!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u335	With clogs, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u336	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, It's really beautiful. Just at that point of acceptance. I now hear Mr Jetten saying that he has an eye for the concerns that exist. Since the step from ISDS to ICS was taken, I think we agree that that was a step forward. The world has changed and unfortunately not always to the positive. Concerns have also increased, especially from civil society, and we have just exchanged views on the possibility of making their voices heard. There are those concerns in the Netherlands and Canada. Yesterday we received a letter from 70 international NGOs. We shouldn't put it under the carpet. It is precisely for the future acceptance of trade agreements and for the support for international cooperation that it is important to take these criticisms seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u337	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u338	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u339	We have just heard Mr Jetten say: we are now choosing speed and then we are going to look at how we can respond to these concerns later. Is it not necessary to address these concerns now and to ensure that it gets better now, precisely in order to increase the level of support that is under pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u340	If my previous answer gives the impression that I am in favour of speed: certainly not. We've been working on this for 11 years, so I wouldn't call that quick. I only note that many of the concerns that Mrs van den Hul and I share can be discussed with the Canadians precisely thanks to CETA. Let me give you an example: women's rights. I believe you are one of the greatest champions in this Chamber in the fight for women's rights. This is the first trade agreement to include gender. With this trade agreement, therefore, we have an opportunity to talk to the Canadians about how we can use international trade in such a way that we also give gender a good place in it. We can thus ensure that women's rights as one of these important SDGs are also given a place in their further development. So my answer to you would be: precisely this free trade agreement with agreements to continue to appeal to each other and work together on higher standards is a way of addressing and resolving these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u341	Brief question and brief answer, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u342	So we still do not respond to the main criticism from my group on what is now before us and to an important point of criticism from civil society: how can civil society defend its rights at least as well as companies? And it is all true what Mr Jetten says: yes, there is something about women's rights and so on. But it doesn't say how NGOs and trade unions can make their voices heard in the same way. So let me say again: why not ask the Minister together to take a step forward with progressive European countries now, so that we can also address those concerns that civil society, which are quite right and understandable as far as we are concerned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u343	Again, as far as I am concerned, we also ask the Minister: how are you going to conduct these talks with Canada in the coming period? Involve civil society in this. We just had an interrupting debate, but not so much about talking along and expressing your concerns about improving standards. No, the previous interrupting debates were about investment protection and whether this route should also be open to civil society, so that it can be right. The court for investment protection has been designed to protect companies from governments that involuntaryly take things away from those entrepreneurs. I see that civil society is currently able to find its way to justice in terms of protection against environmental damage, climate damage and so on. Urgenda and nitrogen are very good examples of this. If we finally reach such a multilateral agreement, we can see whether it should not be broader than just investment protection and whether there can be an international place where you can sue companies for doing wrong things. But this can be done in the Netherlands by the Dutch judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u344	Yes, we can do that in the Netherlands, and in Canada we can do that in general. But we are also discussing a blueprint for future trade agreements tonight. As I have just said, this does not apply to a large number of countries with which we are going to negotiate trade agreements in the coming period. You can't go to court there as an NGO or a union. What if your rights as a union are unfortunately there are many examples of, like Bangladesh's being violated by the government? What if you live in a country where you can't just go to court, like here in the Netherlands? Then it is all the more important that we set the bar higher in trade agreements, which we are now working for. I'd really like to hang out with D66. Then make sure that in those cases countries are also sure that they are being watched, and that trade unions and human rights defenders know that they can make their voices heard, as companies can already do at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u345	Then we will come back to the most important point in this debate: are you satisfied with a free trade agreement with Canada that takes very good steps on all these points and is really an improvement on all the other free trade agreements we have already concluded? That is this treaty: it is a step in the right direction. It is not yet perfect, certainly not, and I am not going to try to convince Mrs van den Hul of that either, because I also see many possibilities for improvement. But it took 11 years to get to this point. If we throw this treaty in the trash now, we have nothing at all. What kind of signal do we send? If we as the European Union cannot even conclude a treaty with our ally Canada, how can we do so with the rest of the world? So let's start by ratifying this treaty, but let's not sit back after that, but keep fighting to improve it even further.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u346	To respond to the latter, it seems to me to be a very bad starting point for ratifying something, just because it took so long to reach this agreement. To be honest, that seems to me to be a very clumsy and almost silly statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u347	No, but of course it's an illusion to think it'll get even better within a year, Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u348	I don't know. I assume that's up to those who are talking at the table. Actually, I wanted to ask you something else myself. I even wrote it down, it was a bit at the beginning of your speech. You asked: who benefits from this now? You said: agriculture in particular. And a few paragraphs further: from all over the world, you don't want to drag fossil fuels here. I very much agree with you. At that point, we can really find each other. It is only a pity that we now find in CETA that there has been a huge increase in trade in oil and petroleum products over the last two years that the trade section has been operating. It really is about hundreds of millions of euros. Can you explain to me what exactly is so terribly green about the CETA Trade Agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u349	What's so awfully green about it is this. Both parties, Canada and the European Union, have signed the Paris Agreement and have agreed that they will both abide by it and address each other. It is, even when it comes to international comparisons, a free trade agreement with a very solid green paragraph in it. I am confident that the Canadians, just as we do here, are now watching with each other how they are going to implement the agreements contained in the Paris Agreement. That is why D66 and GroenLinks, among others, have negotiated a Climate Act and a Climate Agreement. Mrs Diks has now, quite rightly, pointed out a few times that the trade of fossil raw materials from Canada to Europe has increased over the last two years. That's right. This means that both Canada and the Netherlands have to do even better to do what Mrs Ouwehand says so beautifully. Get rid of the infusion of fossil fuels we have. That is why we are also working on our own national legislation. This Chamber has recently decided that we are going to ban the burning of coal, so that at some point coal can no longer be burned for energy and heat in this country. That is something you can do well under this CETA agreement. So as a national government, you can make laws and regulations in the context of climate policy. So will the Canadians. I hope and assume that in ten to twenty years' time we will not see such large fossil streams because we can do it well with wind, sun and hydrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u350	Honestly, I'd almost say I'm helping you hope so. It seems a bit of a weird route. We both have the idea that there is something really going on with the climate, that we really need to act together and that we should have been in action a long time ago, so that we actually started way too late. I will continue to find it very complicated, and I have just spoken to Mr Weverling about it in a small debate that you think you are working on improving the climate by encouraging more trade in oil and petroleum products. That's completely absurd, isn't it? How does that actually help us to move forward with the Climate Agreement and the Climate Act in the Netherlands, which you yourself have been very active in? It's really weird to say, "I'm gonna get better at this. I'm not gonna tell you when. But to get there, I'm gonna pollute a lot more first." I think that's such a wonderful reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u351	I agree with Mrs Diks that more trading in fossil fuels does not help; I am certainly not going to say that. But it does help to make agreements with like-minded countries on how to use international trade in such a way that you can also improve animal welfare, improve the climate and better protect the environment. That's part of this free trade agreement. Canada and Europe can appeal to each other that we are not going to lower standards and standards to make more money. In fact, we're gonna stick to raising those standards to better protect our world. I can also have a very extensive debate here about what it means to get off coal and off Groningen gas and that in the short term it may lead to a small peak in fossil needs that we have in the Netherlands because we are not finished with our wind at sea and are not finished with our sun on rooftops, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u352	No, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u353	There's been so many debates going on, so I won't. But the bottomline is that in this treaty we have made happy agreements to implement Paris with each other. Then I will not be distracted by one, two years more fossil exports.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u354	I would like to appeal to you to be really brief in the interruption, but also in the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u355	I'm trying, Mr. Chairman. I was just asking Mr Jetten what exactly is going on with these petroleum products. You've, of course, read that sustainability impact assessment, like me. You have also read that the European Commission assumes that emissions will increase significantly, also because of the additional agricultural production that will go on and on. How does this relate to the Climate Agreement in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u356	What I myself would think is that the European Commission, with the European Green Deal, which we conclude with each other over the next few months, will start up talks with Canada in hand and say, "Well, Canada, we have a trade agreement with each other. We agreed that we are also continuing to implement the Paris Climate Agreement. Europe has now implemented this with the European Green Deal. How are we gonna do that together? How's Canada gonna make a green deal? How are we going to ensure, for example, that we align legislation on a CO tax or on a flight tax, so that standards and standards are raised in Canada as well?" It is precisely the free trade agreement, with agreements and consultation tables, that leads us to move forward together to set an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u357	I find it so strange that Mr Jetten is constantly stressing the discussions that would be possible thanks to this free trade agreement. As if that would guarantee that the problems will be solved. I would remind Mr Jetten that when anyone said to the Netherlands "hey, but you signed the Paris Climate Agreement, which you must keep, and you made your own agreements," none of the directors listened to it. The judge's even got to be involved. And even then, the Netherlands doesn't listen. So what is Mr Jetten thinking? That the Netherlands or the officials of the European Commission are going to say to Canada 'hey, listen; your signature is under the Paris Climate Agreement, so I want you to stick to that' and that the Canadian government will say 'oh, if Europe says it, we will do it'? That's totally naive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u358	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u359	What I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u360	Whatever you want, you should have said right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u361	Yeah, but if D66's gonna set up these lines of defense, it's gonna have to be countered with the facts. The conversations we've seen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u362	The facts are that we are indeed hopelessly lagging behind as the Netherlands, but fortunately since this Chamber was installed, we have a Climate Law, in which we have legally defined the goals of Paris, that we have concluded the Climate Agreement, with which we are going to significantly reduce CO emissions in the years to come, and that we are finally going to roll out a decent nitrogen policy with each other after the nitrogen pronunciation. And yes, that's slow. I know Mrs Ouwehand likes to see it faster. I'd like that myself once in a while. But we should not pretend that we are not doing anything here in the Netherlands about climate policy and about nitrogen policy. We're working on that. And yes, it can be faster. But we shouldn't pretend like nothing's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u363	Mr Jetten's cabinet does not comply with the law. That nitrogen bill is illegal. And the Hoge Raad's statement that the amount of greenhouse gases in the Netherlands should have fallen by 25% at the end of this year compared to 1990, is not going to make it. So even the judge doesn't listen to a politician like Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u364	No, Mrs. Ouwehand. No, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u365	And then you think the Canadian government is going to change its policy because Europe wants it so badly? But I want to get to the facts. For Mr Jetten says: when you are in consultation with Canada, they are going to do better. We've seen a foodwatch report that I've asked questions about before. In Canada poisons that are forbidden to our farmers can be used. In Canada you can keep and transport pigs in a way that is not allowed in Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u366	And the question to Mr Jetten...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u367	What do we see? Those conversations with Canada, in private clubs with officials, lead Canada to say, "Wait a minute, I don't have to follow your rules, do I? And by the way, I think your rules are a little too sharp. Tighten them down."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u368	And what's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u369	So this goes directly against the expectation that Mr Jetten is trying to sell here as: it will be okay, because we are talking. The opposite is happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u370	I believe that Europe has not watered this down at the request of or under pressure of the Canadians, and that is a good thing. It is also a good thing that the European Council and all the national Member States stand up against it and that we can discuss it here with each other, in order to avoid that kind of crazy. When it comes to the import of food products from Canada to the Netherlands, I also want those products that are on the shelves to be good and that there is no hormone meat in our stores. I also want products containing all kinds of toxins to be kept as far away from the European market as possible. This means that we need to inform consumers about where products come from, especially in the case of meat. Fortunately, there are only 36 Canadian companies that are now allowed to export to Europe and thus meet European standards. I guess all the other companies aren't. There are also Canadian farmers who are now complaining: because of all these strict European rules, I do not even get into the European market with CETA. Then I think: yes, very good; so this free trade agreement works well and there will be no junk on the Dutch market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u371	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u372	It's the same song every time. I refer to the poisons that can be used in Canadian agriculture and animal welfare standards, which are much lower there, and then Mr Jetten comes back with hormone meat. That's not what I'm talking about. And even though there are those audits, we know that in the Netherlands it is not even possible to have the NVWA properly checked. So stop talking about the hormone meat. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about poison. And if Mr Jetten here claims that these talks with Canada will lead to Canada becoming more sustainable in agriculture, then I think he should suspend his judgment. There have been very serious questions to the Minister and so far we have not received any answers. And if it turns out that there is indeed lobbying for relaxation of European standards or for space for Canada, then I think D66 should join the Animal Party and say: you know what, we are not going to do that whole CETA anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u373	So you're not gonna throw a whole free trade agreement in the trash can. Then you're going to appeal to the minister responsible that we don't want this to happen this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u374	I heard Mr Jetten say that we have experienced 33% growth in our exports to Canada over the last two years. I can't wait to find out where those numbers came from.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u375	I'm gonna go check that out. Then I think I can tell Mr Baudet in a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u376	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u377	I have the CBS figures here and they show a different picture, so that's going to be interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u378	Good. I suggest...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u379	Mine are also from the CBS, I'm guessing, but I'll just look up the exact report for you and I'll let you know. Mr. Chairman. I will skip a part of it, because that has already been largely discussed in the debate on the interruptions. Yes, I'm just coming to a conclusion, Mr. Chairman. This free trade agreement has been negotiated since 2009. On behalf of the Netherlands, PvdA Minister Ploumen was rightly signed in full conviction, not only for greater prosperity, but above all for the confirmation of our alliance with our progressive and democratic partner, the Canada of Prime Minister Trudeau, with whom we fight side by side for climate, environment and human rights. We do not win that battle with raised tariff walls, in a world where trade wars are the order of the day. We're not gonna win that battle by crawling away behind the dikes. Because isolationism and protectionism have never brought progress or prosperity to anyone. What has brought us progress and prosperity is our open attitude, our will to work together. We as Dutch have always looked beyond the borders of our delta swamp at the mouth of the great European rivers. We are the trading place of Europe and the world. Our port in Rotterdam is the lifeblood of the European economy. That is why we are firmly in favour of the European market. That is why we support the European trade spirit that has brought us this free trade agreement with Canada, as well as the thousands of jobs for Dutch people that this treaty is already giving us at the moment. I expect all parties in this Chamber to vote in favour of this trade agreement with an international view. I stand here with conviction for the value of our post-war world, which has now been so under pressure in other countries. I stand here for freedom, friendship and free trade, and thus for this free trade agreement with Canada. Or as Minister Ploumen replied in 2016 to the NOS' question whether she would be happy to defend this treaty: certainly, I would.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u380	I heard Mr Jetten say again that we are going to fight side by side, together with Canada, for the climate. I think, then, that Mr Trudeau has so far ignored all his objectives. He's gonna open the biggest tar sand mine so far. He once said, about two years ago, that there is no country that would find 173 billion barrels of oil in the ground and leave it there. That really goes against the whole climate policy and the D66 objective, doesn't it? What does Mr Jetten think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u381	Like the Netherlands, Canada has signed the Paris Climate Treaty. In the end, Canada will also have to contribute to preventing global warming. If Canada still chooses to give fossil industry a great deal of work, then Canada will have to do much more to reduce its CO emissions. The Netherlands is finally setting a good example by investing heavily in renewable energy, by phasing out coal and by introducing CO-taxes, flying tax and so on in the coming years. That debate will also have to be held in Canada, because Canada is also committed to the Paris Climate Treaty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u382	I have to say that Mr Trudeau has bought an old pipeline for $4.5 billion. It's being patched up, and with it, it's pouring tar sand oil to Asia and the US, among other things. That does not seem to me to be very much in the interest of the climate. I'd say you shouldn't take Canada's blue eyes or brown eyes. It was just the question of what color eyes it is. But please don't. In my view, CETA is not the right way to start a good discussion with Canada on this issue. You can do that without a treaty like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u383	Again very briefly, Canada is a bit of the Scandinavia of North America. If we can't do it with the Canadians, who can? Please let us support this treaty with each other, with all the progressive, internationally oriented parties. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u384	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u385	Mr. Chairman. Finally, we are talking about the EU-Canada trade agreement on CETA. I am glad that we are finally having this debate, because I have been confronted with stories of bread and butter in the Chamber and outside the Chamber over the last few months. In addition, I am convinced that our economy is designed in such a way that the Netherlands as a whole benefits from trade agreements, particularly with Canada. The CDA is therefore for free trade and for removing unnecessary barriers and administrative burdens for our exporting entrepreneurs, including many SMEs. Our eyes are always on a fair economy. That is why I have always indicated that our Dutch standards are the measure and the European standards are the lower limit. That is also the starting point of the European Commission. Third countries are very willing to gain access to the European market of over 450 million people. We certainly have a good starting point in the negotiations, and that is what we are making use of. Sustainability clauses, promotion of SDGs, international environmental objectives and equivalent legal protection are all included in the Trade Agreement with Canada. We all do it, and every new treaty gets better and carries out these European sustainable, decent standards. But I would also like to remind the Chamber that we are talking here about a trade agreement, about trade, about promoting trade in goods and services, about maintaining our prosperity. We're talking to the Minister of Trade here. It bears the responsibility that the Netherlands earns money across borders, to maintain our prosperity and to maintain our welfare level, including good education, medical care and safety on the streets. That's not free. Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to comment on part of the treaty that we really have something to say about, namely the settlement of disputes. Let me address this first, before I go into the sustainability requirements, European standards and the global competitiveness of the Dutch agricultural sector. Although the law is not about that, I do think it is necessary to say something about it. Dispute settlement within trade agreements has been under discussion for a number of years. In the meantime, the ISDS dispute resolution mechanism, which has been in place for decades, has evolved into the ICS system. My group supports the development of this mechanism and supports the ICS system. However, we must realise that under the existing ISDS mechanism, no Western European country has ever lost an ISDS case. A formal case has never even been brought against the Netherlands, France, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom. Investors are aware that national courts in these countries judge impartially and independently. This independence should ensure a dispute settlement system. Several international measurements show that this is not the case in all EU countries. There are problems in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, for example. The figures also show that the fear of the possibility for investors to initiate a case is not justified, but is an expression of distrust in the current system. Practice shows that there is no claim culture with CETA at all, that foreign companies are not going to correct the Dutch government and that the Netherlands is still dealing with its own legislation under CETA. Then why do we hear that all the time from a certain corner of this Chamber? The EU therefore concluded a trade agreement with Japan last year without a dispute resolution chapter. Japan did not accept ICS, but advocated the less transparent ISDS, which was not acceptable to the EU. The trade agreements with Indonesia and Australia, which are currently being negotiated, will also have no dispute settlement mechanism. Given the very limited number of cases, it is questionable whether it is necessary in the future for a trade agreement to include a dispute resolution mechanism. So a trade agreement with Canada without dispute settlement is one of the possible scenarios, I ask the Minister. I would like to stress immediately that this is certainly not my preference at the moment. Of course, Canada has a rule of law according to our own standards. But can we, on the European side, guarantee the Canadians full independence of local courts in Hungary or Romania, for example? I doubt it and am therefore in favour of agreeing to the ICS clause, because I, as the Netherlands and as Europe, want to be a reliable trading partner and be in favour of a level playing field.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u386	I just want to focus on what the CDA is asking here. On the one hand, I hear the question addressed to the cabinet, and I was very pleased to see whether it would be possible to conclude this treaty without that unjust investment protection clause. On the other hand, I hear the CDA say: yes, but we agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u387	Mr Alkaya almost quotes me, but he does put a word in between: unjust. We have not said at all that ICS is unjust. So you say. ICS is an improvement on ISDS. It will not be perfect, but the Netherlands does not conclude a trade agreement with Canada as an individual country. We have been 28 minus 1 since February, with 27 countries, so we will have to come up with 27 countries so that we are a reliable trading partner for Canada. And if ICS, which has been negotiated out, is the right mechanism, I acknowledge that it is certainly an improvement compared to ISDS.................................................................................................................................................................................. The question is what it will look like for the future. There are several possible forms, but if we, as Europe, are to conclude this at the moment, we will do so as Europe with 27 countries to Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u388	But the CDA has just asked the Cabinet to see if it is possible to conclude this treaty without that system, whether it is fair or unfair, we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u389	We asked if it could be done. That's the question. Or it could be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u390	That's a good question. Then I also assume that we cannot agree, cannot vote on this until that question has been answered. Because then we will actually send the cabinet back to Brussels with an order to take stock of it. That's my call, too. That's exactly what I'm asking the cabinet to do. And then I expect the CDA, if it votes now, to just vote against it, because it's still in there now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u391	In my view, I have just made it clear that this is absolutely not our preference at the moment. However, the ICS system is still under development and we are monitoring this development very closely. However, I would like an answer to our questions about concerns about the dispute resolution mechanism. Can the Minister tell us what the alternatives are? Is it possible to carry out an evaluation of the system in five or seven years' time? CETA is the first treaty with ICS. After this is in use for a while, we should be able to analyse the functioning. What are the possibilities for interim improvements by, for example, the joint committee? I'd like a response from the Minister. Although I am not called Jan or Piet, I feel personally connected to Dutch agriculture and horticulture. I come from an agricultural area in North Limburg and have many friends and acquaintances in this sector. I grew up with it. When I was a kid, I had a lot of side jobs on the field. Asparagus stabbing, leek legs, strawberry picking, but also feeding the mucks. For those in this Chamber who do not know: these are the young cattle calves. It's still good times to look back on. And I know how important this is for the regions. I would therefore like to emphasise that I am proud of our farmers. They're world-class athletes for me. "We" are the world's second exporter. That is something to be proud of, because our farmers produce according to high standards. This does not apply to number 1 on the export list, the US, but also to number 4, Brazil, and certainly not to number 6, China. Doing good about the fact that we are second in the world is, in fact, giving preference to other countries like Brazil and China for shipping their goods around the world. And farmers aren't pathetic, but I do understand their concerns in this changing world. I would also like to comment on this, but retreating behind the dike is not the right answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u392	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u393	I do have a short question. Mr Amhaouch asked for an evaluation in about seven years. He also talked about the ICS. I find that interesting in itself. My question is: what do we do when we conclude that it was not such a good idea? I honestly admit that I do not have a clear picture of what will happen if the Netherlands finally gets out of CETA. But I do know that you can step out of a similar treaty, the Energy Charter, which includes the same investment protection. Italy did. I think the Netherlands should get out too. But you'll be stuck with it for another 20 years. So the moment you step out, you're stuck with it for another 20 years. So what exactly is the CDA proposing here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u394	We have asked whether we can evaluate the system after five or seven years. In the meantime, the joint committee can make adjustments, so we do not have to wait five years if we want to make improvements. That would be very bad. But you can always, if there are concerns in society or in people, review whether that's something you're going to continue in the future or whether you're going to make a system change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u395	Yes, but then I would also like the Minister to outline the options. If we agree to it now, we are stuck with it. The CDA now suggests that you can evaluate and adapt. Maybe it is. But how concrete is the possibility that you can still withdraw? That's what I want to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u396	There is no withdrawal at the moment. It's about ICS as a system. There's more coming. Vietnam was adopted today in the European Parliament, including the votes of the Forum for Democracy. The question is whether ICS as a means to the future is good. That is what we say we must evaluate. We are not talking about withdrawing from CETA today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u397	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u398	That's exactly how I understand it. For a moment I thought, "Oh, a bright spot in the future, maybe in seven years we can get out." But the CDA means: we need to look and evaluate for future treaties. So we're never getting out. We're gonna say yes, if it's the CDA's fault, and then we're just stuck with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u399	If everyone agrees on this, I understand, but I am happy to be corrected, then everyone can come out and we can stop tomorrow, if all the countries agree. But we must always remain optimistic, Mrs Ouwehand, that we have points of light towards the future. Otherwise, we'll never make improvements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u400	Mr Amhaouch said he was proud of the farmers. The question is whether the farmers are proud of him, because the farmers with whom he had a side job are the same farmers who had to drive their tractor 200 kilometres to The Hague to get them justice while you were in the coalition and standing up for the multinationals. And that's what you're doing today! You say you're proud of the farmers, but you stand up for the multinationals. The question is whether these farmers are also proud of you, because those farmers advise us to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u401	Whether the farmers are proud of me, you should ask the farmers. We have a lot of farmers, thousands of farmers. I am proud of the farmers and the CDA too, and we stand up for it every day, just with a trade agreement like CETA. For example, the export of cheeses has increased enormously. Huge, and that's because of our dairy farmers in the Netherlands. They're taking advantage of that. They go to Friesland Campina or to the cheese farmers, and they make good cheeses. Then we are proud of these farmers, who can play on the world stage. I do not know which direction Mr Öztürk wants. If he wants to know if the farmers are proud of me, then he has to go to the farmers. Maybe a few are sitting in the public gallery or watching at home, but at least I'm proud of those farmers, especially in the area where I grew up and where I know what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u402	The farmers' organisations are not happy with CETA. They literally say: CETA is for the multinationals, the big boys. You are certainly saying here that CETA would be good for the farmers, but that is not the case. My point is that you have deviated from your position that you stand up for the farmers. That is a false view, because you stand up for the multinationals and only for the big companies. When are you going to tell the farmers what this is going to do to them? Just selling a few liters of milk, that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u403	I see that Mr Öztürk does not know what figures he is talking about when he calls one litre of milk. One kilo of cheese is ten liters of milk. Go see what millions of them have been exported. CETA has been in operation for two and a half years and more than 90% of the companies using it are SMEs. And that frame that farmers are against: yes, there are farmers' organisations critical. Yes, there are farmers' organisations against it, but the more than 8,000 dairy farmers at the LTO are for CETA. I'm not saying CETA is ideal. No one can hear me say that, but I say that this is very important for the agricultural sector in the Netherlands to continue producing. If we do what we have heard here today, I agree with Mr Jetten and Mr Weverling, and withdraw behind the dikes and allow the Chinese and the Brazilians to do all the exports, then we are going to produce less every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u404	Now the monkey's coming out of the sleeve. Chinese, Brazilians: creating scare images, that was also the CDA's defense at the dividend tax. While they knew that dividend tax was for the three big multinationals, they came up with stories like this. When are you going to stop telling these kinds of stories and creating fear images and just admit honestly what you just said: it's not ideal. Yes, Mr. Amhaouch, CETA is not ideal. Now tell the farmers what is not ideal for them. Tell me the truth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u405	I just said what I said about the farmers, how proud they are of this, and also their organisations. But Mr Öztürk has also stated in the election programme that they are in principle opposed to trade agreements. I don't understand that at all. We see that three quarters of what we export are jobs. These jobs are also important for the supporters of Mr Öztürk, and I hear him say here in the Chamber: we are against trade agreements and, in fact, indirectly against exports. Like GroenLinks, you can say: we are in favour of trade agreements, provided that they are. Yes, provided that there is no agricultural paragraph and that other countries do as well as we do. So never! That's the conclusion. Then you should not give the impression here that you are in favour of trade agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u406	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u407	I would just like to point out that what Mr Amhaouch is saying about our electoral programme is not correct and I challenge him to show it here before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u408	Mr Amhaouch just lost himself in the more nostalgic side of agriculture. I grew up in that too, on a farm, when life was so ordinary; I just gave it up. After that, there were a lot of CDA cabinets that were driven by scaling. We all had to do it much wider. That's one of the reasons my dad had to stop the farm. So I remember pretty well how that felt and how that went. Through all this scaling-up, through the form of agriculture that has been created, you have now come to a situation where a lot of farmers recognise that this cannot be sustained. You stand up with some enthusiasm for the dairy farmers, so to speak, the dairy farming. But you're not looking at what happens to the pig farmers. As I've said before, as a milkman, you're a bacon buyer at the CDA, but you've really checked it out as a meat farmer. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u409	What I think is that the story doesn't add up at all. We are proud of all the farmers, including the pig farmers. Look, for example, at what the pig farmers can export to China today thanks to their way of production. The prices have never been so high. The percentages have increased enormously. There will be another 30-member debate tomorrow, and I do not know who has requested it; I think Mrs Ouwehand is talking about veal exports to China. Every time in this Chamber, we go on the brakes, while our farmers produce high-quality meat. Then we're gonna hit the brakes here! How can you, as a representative of the people in this Chamber, say that the trade agreement is not good, but we, as left-wing parties, and a number of others who join it; I do not understand why it stands up for the farmers. Those are the same parties that said the day before yesterday: rather we are killing the farming sector today. Those are the same parties! So please turn off the mask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u410	I don't think I have a mask on, but you do. It's a nice word, now that you're using it like that. It is, of course, crazy that you are able to defend the pig farmers in the Netherlands, while at the same time you want to sign CETA, a treaty of which pig farmers in the Netherlands will definitely suffer a great deal in the future. You don't have to tell me anything else. It will not be today, perhaps not tomorrow, but certainly the day after tomorrow and certainly next year. What do you think? If you open the doors here to Canadian pork, do you think it won't come in? That's how commerce works. You're excited about the pig trade here. I can still understand the pig farmers. But we've seen together what the hell happens in those abattoirs. Isn't that what's gonna bring you up the bile? Who ultimately pays the price for all that delicious cheap pork? That's the pigs, not the consumer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u411	This is a nice example of fakenews. I can't say otherwise. You need to do your homework. If you read the pieces correctly and have done your homework properly, you will know that on pork there is a tonnage of 80,000 tonnes per year at zero rate. A maximum of 0.4% can export Canada to Europe, 0.4%. 80,000 tonnes spread over 27 countries is just over 1,000 tonnes. Then you are going to create a picture here, also for the people at home, as if Europe and the Netherlands were flooded by pork. Please put this into perspective. In my view, the biggest problem in the whole CETA debate is that we do not put the discussion, even if there are concerns, in the right perspective. Next thing you know, somebody's gonna come up and start talking about chlorine chickens. It's the same thing. Chickens aren't in the treaty at all. We go on like this all the time. The next one will come with veal. On veal, it is 50,000 tonnes at zero rate. So, please, let us stop spreading that news. Let's talk about the legitimate concerns that exist. A number of concerns have been raised. Towards the future, we need to improve those points and move towards higher standards. But don't play charade here. This isn't personal, but I don't like that kind of news, that monkey sandwiches in the last few months. I didn't sleep badly, but I sometimes think: what are we doing in the Netherlands? We have such a beautiful sector and some people just want to turn their backs on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u412	Finally, Mrs Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u413	It can be short, Mr. Chairman. The caricature that Mr Amhaouch is portraying here is really very annoying, if I may put it that way. It is really annoying when you say that all Dutch farmers get excited by CETA. It's really not true. There are dozens of organisations, pig farmers, arable crops, all of them, and trade unions and so on, who have indicated that there are major disadvantages to CETA. If you say that the pig farmers who are concerned about this, with their whole and keeping in their business, are victims of transition and that you can't help everyone and so on, then I really think it's a lot that you're standing here as a CDA member, a party that's always standing up for the farmers, but now they're turning their necks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u414	That is also a particular debate technique, framing. I have just said that I understand that there are some concerns with farmers. I also said that not all farmers benefit equally from it. I just said that, but you're talking about all the farmers now. I say that there are a lot of farmers' organisations, including very large farmers' organisations, that are in favour of it. I have also talked to a lot of organisations that are concerned about it; they were at our round table. So if you say that Amhaouch from the CDA says that all farmers are happy with it, that is a certain way of speaking, but not reality. I object to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u415	I just heard Mr Amhaouch talk about the dairy export organizations. Mr Jetten also mentioned cheese. I have the statistics from the CBS on the export of dairy products. In 2016, 12 million went to Canada, 11 million in 2017, 13 million in 2018 and 12 million in 2019. So there is no increase and no huge increase at all. There's just no rise. It's having no effect. There was already trade with Canada, there will be trade with Canada. The CETA Convention has no effect on that at all. The only thing that happens is that we lose control of products in our markets and we surrender to a supranational court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u416	I also have my grades. CETA is a broad agreement. Look at the top of the list. Fuels and lubricants have gone from 1.2 billion to 1.6 billion since 2017, food and live animals from 1 billion to 1.2 billion, chemicals from 600 million to just over, machinery and means of transport from 700 to 840 million. Mr Weverling and Mr Jetten have also said that there is a surplus of about 3.5 billion and we have only been working for two and a half years. It doesn't have to be all the way to the blue in the sky. The point is that we trade. We were already trading with Canada. We bring down the administrative burden, we bring down the number of customs paper bags. We don't have to do double measurements in all these countries. We support our entrepreneurs with that. Making as many billions as possible is not an end in itself either, but we want to make life easier for farmers, entrepreneurs, industry and SMEs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u417	We can now talk about another subject, another element of our business life, namely machine parts or fossil. Indeed, exports of fossil products, such as fossil oil and gas and that kind of thing, have increased. That's because the Canadian economy has grown. That's true. But it was about dairy, and so there is no increase in that at all. There's no growth there. It doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u418	The export of cheese has certainly increased considerably. I can come back to that in a second term. I'll get the numbers later. I also mentioned them in the General Reviews.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u419	12 million, 11 million, 13 million, 12 million. Same amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u420	Good. Proceed, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u421	Yes. Because the agricultural sector is an important sector for our exports, the CDA has constantly drawn attention to this in recent years, but in my view the agricultural sector is not a vulnerable and pathetic sector. Yet it is put away by a number of parties here in the house, and also by environmental brigades outside this house. I'm sure these clubs, as a matter of fact, drop the peasants like a brick. My group believes that we should be aware of any economic sector potentially affected by this treaty. The CDA stands for an open economy. Then it is important for me that we strengthen important economic sectors and make them resilient to undesirable effects of trade agreements. My first question to the Minister is therefore whether accompanying policies are being made. What are the possibilities to strengthen the Dutch agricultural sector in competition with Canadian companies, if necessary? The question is, of course, whether the Minister has found over the past two years that CETA has damaged our agricultural sector. And what did she do about it? I understand that high social demands on production in the Netherlands are needed to achieve international climate goals. The Dutch farmers understand that as well. But we must realise that by making these demands we can cause problems for the agricultural sector, and then we must be careful. We must keep our agricultural sector competitive vis-à-vis other countries. We do not destroy the sector by offering more trade opportunities, by removing trade barriers, by promoting trade and by setting global standards. We do this by wanting to be the best boy in the European class and by using very high environmental standards imposed by our own domestic anti-agricultural activists. LTO itself states that 75% of every euro we earn comes from abroad, and one quarter from outside the EU. That is why I want to ensure that we in the Netherlands impose extreme measures on farmers and sell them as if the European trade agreements were to do so. That's bullshit, and I'm resisting it. That the freaking green lobby in this Chamber wants to stop the agricultural sector for its ideological cart, because that destroys more than we like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u422	Don't look at Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u423	No?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u424	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u425	Then I'll finish another block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u426	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u427	If we allow our sustainability measures to go skyhigh because we decide for ourselves and other countries do not, then it is logical that the anti-CETA lobby states that foreign countries have much lower standards than we do. I therefore call on the Minister to ensure that this is done, that action is taken and that, together with her colleagues, measures are taken when sectors lose their competitiveness, precisely when the international level playing field increases. Because then something is not right in national policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u428	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u429	I would also like to ask Mr Jetten to pay attention, because the CDA is actually saying here: farmers in the Netherlands must comply with some environmental rules, but that should not make them lose their international competitiveness. The CDA likes to blame activists, but the judge just said that the Netherlands does not comply with the laws. Measures must therefore be taken to protect nature from excessive nitrogen emissions, including from agriculture, and we must meet the climate targets. So the CDA should either put the bomb under the cabinet here and say: but we're not going to cooperate with that at all. Or it should just be fair to say that the CDA will also impose that on farmers in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u430	We, too, have signed the climate agreements, and we are sticking to them. We, too, will comply with the judge's nitrogen claims. But there are always parties here in this Chamber who never find that enough, who always want to put a shovel, two shovels, three shovels, even ten shovels on top. It's actually the same attitude that plays domestic in this Chamber. It is also the same parties that say: you should not conclude a trade agreement with Canada, because those Canadians are not exactly what we are doing. Beware, the finger again: they don't do it exactly according to our standards. But we have absolutely no confidence that we can come to a better standard together in a dialogue in the future. Those are the same parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u431	Then we have to conclude two things here. The first is really important, because the CDA is also going to impose rules on agriculture in order to meet nitrogen standards and climate standards. This means that Dutch agriculture will be at a competitive disadvantage in relation to Canada, where they are doing things wrong, I can tell Mr Amhaouch. The other: parties who do not think that is enough and want to go a little further are parties who look forward longer and who say that it does not make much sense and that it is not good for the farmers either if you steer very minimally and then each time you set new rules because you just don't achieve the goals. The parties who want more say: look at 2050, because then 95% of your CO emissions will have to be reduced. That means something to the farmers. So you'd better start smart policies in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u432	I suggest you move on. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u433	I would like to respond, namely that we also want improvement measures. But we do not want the measures that Mrs Ouwehand wants to apply to reduce everyone. The strongest sectors we have in the Netherlands... We have a strong competitive position. We say as CDA: competitive and sustainable, they go hand in hand. This is how we maintain our strong position in the world, including as an agricultural sector. I'm asking the Cabinet to watch over that. And if we have to intervene, we'll intervene. We won't let that happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u434	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u435	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me now discuss the sustainability measures in this treaty. There are three chapters in it. In relation to ISDS, three sustainability measures have been introduced in ICS: one in relation to the environment, one in relation to labour and one in relation to sustainability. And then we still come to the conclusion that there are no improvements. Within the framework of European legislation, the Netherlands can decide which sustainability standards should be followed. Existing investment treaties usually do not contain a chapter on sustainability. CETA does. That is a sign of progress in this respect. I disassociate myself from the statement that this treaty is failing to meet all the sustainability requirements and that Europe is selling out on sustainability. Can the Minister indicate to what extent the CETA Convention builds on the previous trade agreements in this respect? Europe is a soft power. We derive our globally respected position from our rules and from our sustainable and social standards that we promote and demand from trading partners worldwide. As a result, EU rules are set as a measure in the world. Because European standards are being adopted almost everywhere in the world. Countries adapt their production process to gain access to the European market. It is precisely the introduction of treaties like this that lead to better standards all over the world. The EU therefore has a heavily underestimated power to set decent standards in the world, as the EU sets global rules for food, chemistry, competition and privacy. For example, McDonald's around the world takes into account European rules on toys, Europeans determine the layout of Facebook through privacy legislation and the global standards for make-up are established in Europe. International trade and access to the European internal market ensure that countries outside the EU adapt their production processes, adapt their products to European standards and adopt European regulations without signing them. When several countries change their rules, other countries automatically follow them. This also applies to major economic powers such as America or China. After we conclude a trade agreement with Canada, countries that are focused on Canada will follow the adjustment of their standards, because Canada is going to demand it from them. The same applies to the other countries with which the EU concludes trade agreements. What I would like to point out is that the conclusion of a trade agreement with Canada is greater than the promotion of trade between the EU and Canada alone. As the Minister said, it is of geo-economic importance and provides stability in the world. Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands is an open economy. The Netherlands, together with Rotterdam and Schiphol, has the main gateways to the European internal market. This is a great added value for the whole country. We all benefit from it. We have a high-quality economy whose markets extend far beyond our borders. If there is one country in the EU that has looked at the world, it is the Netherlands. We must therefore stand for our standards and deliver on human rights, sustainability requirements and environmental objectives. A Netherlands that opposes a decent trade agreement will not only be unique. It'll make the world frown. My group therefore agrees with CETA. I assume that this Chamber will assume the same responsibility in the general interest of all our Dutch inhabitants, farmers and businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u436	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I would now like to make the proposal to suspend until eight o'clock. Mrs. Ouwehand totally agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u437	Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. I see that a speaker has been added to the list of speakers, welcome but with enormous speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u438	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u439	I am talking about Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u440	Oh.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u441	I'd like us to put our heads together in time to see how we're gonna do the planning. There will again be important debates on the agenda tomorrow. I don't think we should be here until deep into the night and again in the morning. So we need to see what's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u442	I wanted to say something about that too. I saw that Mr Baudet gave up four hours of speaking time at the last moment, just before the debate. It is neat in this type of debate, and it is also part of it, because of the planning, to indicate well in advance how much time you need. That is precisely why Mrs Ouwehand calls it: to see when first term, second term and so on can take place. But I was really curious if you'd speak for four hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u443	I'd like to apologize for the late report. That's what went wrong in communication. I also told Mr Van Toor this afternoon. That's annoying, but I'd like to take a lot of time, because I think what's at stake here is extremely important. That's really underrated. It is also an essential point for my party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u444	It's for everyone here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u445	After all, we originated from the Ukraine referendum. This is actually some sort of association agreement 2.0.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u446	No, but it's important to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u447	No, but so just... I do not mind at all about the debate for a week or two weeks...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u448	No, I'm not!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u449	...delay. That's not...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u450	No, I can't. That's not gonna happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u451	...just a problem for me. But I'd like to tell this story at some point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u452	You can say whatever you want, but we're just gonna finish the debate. I shall suspend the sitting until 8 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u453	We will continue with the debate on the CETA trade agreement. We had stayed with Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's good to have the colleagues back. The CETA Convention is a serious dilemma for the Christian Union; let me just drop by the door. The Netherlands has grown by trade. Trade in itself is good for the Netherlands. It creates work, jobs. It creates revenue for the government. More than a third of our national income comes from trade. And we know that not only multinationals benefit, but that 90% of companies trading with Canada are small and medium-sized enterprises. Trade offers opportunities, including for developing countries. Trade can lead to sustainable and inclusive growth. Trade can be beneficial for developing countries, for their economic growth, but it must be fair trade. I'll come back to that fair trade later. Mr. Chairman. That is the one side: the part of trade. As has already been said, the Netherlands has concluded more than 90 trade agreements itself. And we know that the European Union has already concluded hundreds of trade agreements. I say to the other colleagues after this, it is not a doer of death, but so far no claims have been made against the Netherlands itself. So you could be wondering what we're so worried about. And yet, the adoption of this trade agreement is a dilemma, because trade agreements contain many good things, but on a very large number of points they are problematic. On the horizon, for example, the Mercosur Treaty is emerging. That is a treaty with a country like Brazil, where rainforest is being cut and the rights of the indigenous people are at stake. Moreover, we are very concerned about the impact of the Treaty on our own agriculture. But let me be clear, for the Christian Union, the Mercosur Treaty is clearly a step too far. That bridge does not pass to my group. But now, tonight, it's about the CETA Convention. This treaty is largely EU only, with the European Commission in the lead. The Treaty has been in force for a long time, two years. This benefits many sectors of trade. But also with regard to CETA, our group has serious concerns. I'll list them and then I'll go into them afterwards. These concerns see three main points. First of all, the differences in production standards between the Netherlands and Canada, particularly in the field of agriculture and, in particular, in the area of import control. Two: the impact of the trade agreement on our ambitions for circular agriculture. That was mentioned earlier tonight. And three: the dispute settlement system. I will walk through them and, finally, I will look at the policy of social responsibility, the policy of social responsibility. First of all, production standards. The Christian Union has expressed the concerns about trade agreements, which relate in particular to food and agricultural products, on several occasions, and have not shunned them either. Can we conclude a trade agreement without sacrificing our own high standards here in Europe? Do these standards also apply to farmers outside the Netherlands? And what about equal opportunities for our farmers, to whom we are making increasing demands in the areas of the environment, animal welfare and food safety, and who are increasingly paying for them? Moreover, far-reaching scaling-up may put pressure on family businesses. We still know many family businesses in the Netherlands and we would like to keep them. That is why we wanted food to be excluded from trade agreements earlier. Fortunately, that is now off the table at TTIP with America, but for CETA our same concerns apply. And these are shared by a large proportion of Dutch farmers. Mr. Chairman. We are now two years ahead and we have also seen the figures and quotas. This shows that the fear of pig farming, for example, of competition from Canada has not proved justified for the time being. So far, even more pork has been exported to Canada than the other way around. Trade with Canada has increased on average by 18% since the provisional introduction of two years ago. The EU's trade surplus vis-à-vis Canada has increased considerably and agricultural trade is also in surplus for the European Union. In particular, the dairy sector, in particular cheese.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, quotas have been agreed for beef and pork. But the current situation is not a definite one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u455	Mr Voordewind is also talking about dairy products, which I mentioned earlier in a brief debate of interruption with Mr Amhaouch. According to CBS figures, there has been no increase in our dairy exports to Canada in the last five years. It's swinging a bit. It's a little higher one year and a little lower the other year, and it's around 12 million. What is Mr Voordewind talking about when he talks about spectacular growth in dairy exports? There isn't one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u456	Let me give you one example: trade in cheese has increased by 20%. The tariff quota for cheese has increased by 96%. Fares have decreased, as you will be aware, from 245% to 1%. That gives huge opportunities for the dairy industry. I admit that there is now a very small increase, but that increase in the quota is far from being filled. There's still a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u457	The point is, there's no rise. Between 2018 and 2019, the year it was introduced, there was a decrease of 1 million. It was 13 million and it was 12 million. It is true that there is trade with Canada. I don't think anyone in this room is against us trading with Canada. The point is this treaty and it is now being defended with all the imaginary benefits, but there are no such benefits. They are not supported by the facts. You can say that this may or may not happen in the future, but that is entirely speculative. It has been in force for two years now and there is no difference. Apparently, we have been able to trade very well with Canada for a long time, so we need to look at the impact of this treaty. That is that it is handing us over to a cluppie of foreign judges who will soon be able to judge and change all product standards and so on in the Netherlands and who will be able to vote against this democratic parliament. That's the only effect. There is no problem in terms of trade. It's fine and it doesn't change much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u458	I do not know whether Mr Baudet has looked at the figures on the website. This clearly shows that trade has indeed increased over the last two years, since the introduction of CETA. Let me just mention them: since CETA, total exports of goods and services to Canada have increased by over 18% to 6.7 billion. I still have six or seven figures here, but I believe that Mr Jetten knows them all by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u459	Well, the fun part is when you look at the years before...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u460	Wait a minute. Mr Voordewind is trying to give an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u461	I was only at my introduction and my main points have yet to come, but I mentioned it as a development of the past two years. We do not see a spectacular increase but an increase; we even have a trade surplus in trade with Canada. But if Mr Baudet asks whether that will take away our concerns, then I am only at the beginning of my text. I'm on page four and I still have a lot of pages to go. So if he's patient, he'll be able to listen to the big concerns I might share with him about trade with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u462	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u463	I can't wait. But I just want to say that in the years before CETA was provisionally introduced, there was a much stronger increase in our trade exports. It is, of course, always a question of causality in politics. What is the cause of what phenomenon? A lot of things are being claimed here: look, CETA is causing a growth in trade. But is it? Or is it perhaps the case that it has to do with other factors, such as the growth of the Canadian economy or a number of other things? Of course it could be. And it may well be that you now praise CETA for something it bears no responsibility for at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u464	But Mr Voordewind has just said that he will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u465	This was just part of my story. I can assure you that current trade developments are not of decisive importance to us. I said my introduction that it creates jobs and opportunities. That's important. I note that there is a trade surplus, and the European Union went from a minus in 2016 to a surplus now, but let us not catch up on figures. I hope that we can really have a substantive debate on arguments, where you may have the same concerns as I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u466	Then I'm going to see Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u467	The Christian Union already stated in the introduction that the next treaty, the treaty with the South American Mercosur countries, is really too far-reaching; it is not going to accept that. I am used to that same tone from the Christian Union in the discussion about that treaty with Canada, which we are talking about today. Suddenly, Mr Voordewind calls it a dilemma. He starts with a number of conditions and says: it also produces some money and exports have increased. Then why should people still believe the Christian Union that Mercosur will be a bridge too far? Why should he not vote for Mercosur tomorrow with the same arguments as now for CETA?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u468	Here too, it might be helpful to mention a number of arguments where our concerns lie. I have indeed begun to outline the dilemma. I also see that there is trade and that it is increasing a little. But I have just begun to state our concerns, so perhaps Mr Alkaya can be patient for a while. Then we can see if we can find each other on possible motions. Mr President, one more sentence, if you will allow me, will not remove the concerns of the 2016 Christian Union. We also said: we are not opposed to trade agreements, but we do have serious concerns and objections to trade agreements that have an agricultural component. Then we also said, "What's it all about?" It's about food safety for people here. It is a question of whether we can still create a level playing field for farmers here, who rightly have many demands in relation to food safety, animal welfare and the environment. And it's on the ICS. Those were our objections in 2016. Here I am going to put these objections again along the measuring bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u469	That's good to hear. It would also be quite a step if they suddenly became the main advocate of the opponent. However, I note that the election programme of the Christian Union says: "If there is an agricultural component in a trade agreement, then we are against it. If there is a parallel dispute resolution mechanism in a trade agreement, it cannot count on our support." People voted for it. Then I wonder what Mr Voordewind's other concerns are and I'm just going to listen to them very carefully, but there is a very big difference between 'it's a dilemma; it creates money and jobs, but we still have some worries' and 'no, we're just not going to do it'. Then what has changed in recent times which has made Mr Voordewind of a minister such a merchant?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u470	Perhaps Mr Alkaya is based on all sorts of assumptions and a final outcome which I do not have very clear at the moment. It will depend on the reaction of the cabinet and the possible guarantees that we ask of the cabinet. So perhaps Mr Alkaya is a little too far ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u471	Finally, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u472	Finally. Mr Voordewind then makes it much more exciting than people could have expected, if they had believed him before they had voted for him, and if they had looked at what motions the Christian Union had tabled before. And it's not part of the coalition agreement. The Christian Union can simply do here what it has promised to the people. If she needs so many answers from the cabinet, sees so many dilemmas and needs so many words from Mr Voordewind, I fear the worst. But I really hope that Mr Voordewind will come to a good conclusion in the rest of his story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u473	Mr Voordewind is listing the concerns that the Christian Union had about CETA in 2016. I was not in the Chamber at the time, but fortunately I have a very good understanding of that, because there is still a beautiful, comprehensive article on the website of the Christian Union by Mr Bruins that passes through exactly all these concerns. I'm actually missing something in your summary of earlier. Mr Bruins wrote about that living document: 'A living document is in fact a blank cheque. The Christian Union Group believes that Parliament cannot agree to the signing of a treaty which is unclear as to what it will ultimately look like. Following the signature of CETA, a joint committee will be set up, which may make amendments to CETA. This goes beyond the national parliaments after CETA has been signed. The Christian Union Group is opposed to this." So my question to Mr Voordewind is: do you still have concerns about the treaty committees? They weren't part of your list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u474	In this debate, we will ask for a number of firm safeguards to prevent all kinds of decisions from being taken in sub-committees that we cannot agree to and which we believe should go through the royal way, namely through the Council and the European Parliament. If it is in legislation, it may also come back here. These guarantees are therefore very important to us. My group will finally adopt a final position on the basis of the assurances given to us by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u475	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u476	Mr. Chairman. Then the production requirements. The cabinet always stresses that CETA does not change the standards that the products must comply with and that apply to imports. But at least as important are the standards for production methods, because that is what the level playing field is about. There are also important differences between the European Union and Canada in this area. We have also heard this clearly from the various participants at the round table. The central question here for my group is whether, despite these differences, we can maintain our own standards and offer our farmers a lasting future. For example, can we impose our handling of pesticides on the Canadian companies that want to export here? Can we also apply our animal welfare standards to them? That is what is needed. It's been shown before. We do not impose these requirements on our way of producing for nothing. They express the value we attach to animal welfare, food safety and good working conditions. The Christian Union is not yet convinced that these values are sufficiently protected. It's gonna take more than that. Mr. Chairman. Let me finish a few things. First of all, pesticides. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, agreements should be made with Canada at European level on the certification of agricultural products and/or more audits of Canadian companies wishing to export to the EU, so that we can be sure that they have not been produced using pesticides banned in the EU. Secondly, hormone meat. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, more audits should be carried out on the hormone meat certification system, including the track and trace system. We've seen 36 companies certified. We want to avoid it at all costs, because it is becoming more and more difficult to find out when imports of hormone meat are introduced into the European market. That is why we ask the Minister for Trade for more audits when it comes to certifying and checking the companies in Canada itself. Then animal meal. As far as the Christian Union is concerned, the European Commission must do everything in its power to ensure that the Canadian authorities strictly enforce the rules on animal meal. Then the GMOs, the genetically-engineered organisms. The GMOs are practically banned in Europe. But at the same time, they are difficult to detect at the border. The health risks are unknown. We do not want this to end up in our food if imports of Canadian agricultural products increase. What guarantees can we get for that? That is why I ask the Minister to urge the European Commission to strictly enforce European legislation on GMOs. Finally, Mr President. The Dutch customs capacity needs to be increased so that we can carry out proper import controls ourselves. It is not just the European Commission that has to get to work, but it is also the Netherlands itself that has to take responsibility for controlling imports as closely and as closely as possible. Mr. Chairman. I ask the Minister to work on these points and to clarify them, including from Brussels. The Christian Union is considering tabling a motion on this in the second term. Then there is the impact of the Convention on circular agriculture. This cabinet has set out a vision of circular agriculture as a future perspective for our agricultural sector. Closing and shortening cycles leads to less pollution for the environment and climate. A transition is needed for circular agriculture. Can the Minister indicate how it is ensured that CETA does not undermine that transition to circular agriculture and how we can continue or even strengthen the circular agriculture despite the fact that, or perhaps rather: thanks to........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman. In any case, we think it is important to use the switch to circular agriculture. It's not gonna happen on its own. We know that if farmers have to do so themselves, they can find it very difficult to finance it. That is why we are asking for a transition fund, a conversion fund. It is a good thing that we saw the conversion fund last Friday when dealing with nitrogen. Such a transition fund for circular agriculture can support farmers who want to make the transition. The Christian Union wants this cabinet to work on this conversion fund as soon as possible and that it will have sufficient resources to enable farmers to make that real change. I'd like to hear the Minister's views on this. I am also considering a motion on this point in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u477	Very briefly, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u478	The Christian Union is an important party here, so I don't know if it can be short. I have heard Mr Voordewind say that I am pleased that the standards that Canadian farmers must abide by should not be in place without the rules that European farmers must abide by if they want to export that stuff to Europe. He is asking for a number of safeguards. But if the Minister could arrange that, I wonder how sure that is. Mr Voordewind is now proposing that in Canada, where toxins are permitted which are not allowed in Europe, a number of farmers say 'I am not going to use them, because I want to export to Europe' and that there will be some sort of paper control. The same applies to hormone meat. I don't know if he's noticed how things are in the Netherlands. In a slaughterhouse, which includes animals coming from better living stables and biological stables, who always got a curly from our own control department, "nothing happens here," and with permanent monitoring, camera surveillance and a permanent NVWA veterinarian, someone went to film for two weeks, and the tears jump into your eyes. How can you guarantee in Canada that what you do on paper is maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u479	Those are serious execution questions. Of course, Mrs Ouwehand is right about that. At the same time, and these are not easy things, we are asking for additional audits of hormone meat at certified companies. That's a long way to go. You can also see that hardly any hormone beef is actually coming to Europe. The import here is minimal. This is, of course, because farmers there know that from day one they are not allowed to add hormones from birth. There are only 36 companies that want to do that in the end. They must apply that principle from day one, from birth. We ask the Minister, together with the European Commission, to agree to apply external audits at farm level to see whether the companies now certified by Canada themselves actually comply with the agreements. That's not an easy task. But I await the Minister's answer. When it comes to animal meal, we ask for strict enforcement. When it comes to GMOs, we also ask for additional supervision, however complicated it may be, because not all GMOs are prohibited. I await the Minister's response. But we can increase our own customs capacity. The materials and products enter Rotterdam and Schiphol. That's up to us. Of course, we can do extra checks there. So in this way, the Christian Union is asking for additional guarantees, audits and capacity to ensure that our food safety is guaranteed, that there are no products here that create an uneven playing field with our own farmers, and that the prospects for this important circular agriculture can also be realised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u480	I'm getting a bit of a déjà vu to the debate on the Kunduz mission. In addition, the analysis was that you can create a paper reality that may look acceptable, but in practice it is very different. So I appreciate that the Christian Union is trying to think of the concerns that farmers raise, but I do wonder if this is going to be a solution. I also miss animal welfare. I miss the conditions that the Christian Union states that enforcement must be at least at the level of the Netherlands, and actually even better. Because we see that enforcement is already out of order here. Isn't that part of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u481	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u482	And should the Christian Union not also conclude that dragging agricultural products back and forth from Canada to Europe is by definition already at odds with the circular idea? That is the question I asked Mr Jetten. Or does the Christian Union see the whole world as the cycle?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u483	That's why we're asking these questions. Those are serious questions and we ask them to the Minister. How does such a CETA agreement work on such a circular agriculture? So far we see that the products still go much more from here to there. These are not large quantities; I have also discussed this with Mr Baudet. At the same time, we're not gonna sit here with our hands on each other. We are going to make sure that the Dutch farmers are going to make that change and help them. That letter from Friday is a first step towards that, but it did not indicate how and when. We ask this cabinet to make a package of proposals as soon as possible, including the money, so that we can hopefully clarify before the summer what such a fund will look like. And whether it has any influence or not, I think we need to get this fund, the conversion fund, off the ground anyway, because we need to continue to offer our Dutch farmers prospects in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u484	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u485	I would also like to ask Mr Voordewind to comment on the points I made, which I do not wish to go along with for a moment in thinking about conditions that you would like to impose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u486	Yes. Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u487	I very much appreciate the fact that the Christian Union is joining the opposition as a whole, which says that we should not do Mercosur. But it would be very bad for farmers if we had to take CETA first. I would therefore like to call on the Christian Union, bearing in mind what it sees clearly in Mercosur, that the Treaty should be removed from the table, and thank you for that, even with CETA, not to be too easy about the consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u488	No, and that is why I have just listed five points where we have great concerns and where we want extra guarantees from this cabinet. If the Minister cannot give it at the moment, I would be grateful if she would consult with Brussels on this in order to see if we could get additional information and guarantees from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u489	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u490	The question about animal welfare is a complicated one, Mrs Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand Ouwehand We have talked about this for a long time within the group. How can you ensure that you have a totally level playing field when it comes to Canada and when it comes to Europe? That must be the goal. So I really hope that we will take Canada into the race of the people when it comes to animal welfare standards. That's what we need to talk about. I cannot do that here with guarantees and promises and so on, but at least we will continue to press for those standards to be raised there. We also know that, for example, some pesticides that are permitted here are again not allowed in Canada. So you cannot cut it entirely with scissors, but it is clear that environmental legislation and animal welfare are much lower there than in Europe. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u491	In itself it actually sounds positive, I would almost say, what Mr Voordewind brings out...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u492	Máár...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u493	I was just about to compliment you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u494	Ah, I feel a "but."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u495	It's tiny.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u496	Yeah, that's why. Look, you do point out that you have serious objections to CETA, and that it is also very difficult for your constituents. I also understand that, because in 2016, of course, you supported two motions tabled by SP and GroenLinks, calling on the government to oppose the signing of CETA at all within the EU and not to agree to the provisional application of CETA. So I understand very well that it is very difficult for the Christian Union at the moment. You're asking for guarantees. For example, we are talking about animal welfare. You will no doubt also ask for a guarantee on ICS. We'll wait for your story. But you know as well as I do that there is in fact no point in asking for guarantees about changes to the text, because the Minister has repeatedly indicated in response to all factual questions and during public meetings: the text is the text and you can be in favour or against it. How much is the story of the Christian Union about the guarantees and the demand for change of CETA really worth?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u497	That is a real question. We cannot, of course, amend the text of the Treaty itself, but we can advocate accompanying policies, complementary policies. We can ask the Minister to make an effort to organise this towards the Commission. We're asking for safeguards. Additional audits and additional capacity may still be possible. I need to hear it from the Minister and maybe we should hear it from Brussels. These are additional measures. You will understand that the Christian Union cannot simply change the world. But the Christian Union does feel the task of looking the people in Europe and the people in the Netherlands in the eye and saying that we are doing everything we can to make our food safe and safe. We must also be able to look our farmers in the eye and therefore do everything we can to keep the level playing field right for farmers. When you look at the treaty, you see quotas in very sensitive sectors. Those quotas must be maintained. I also see reports on agricultural products in the Canadian media. There are demonstrations. They are even afraid that they will be flooded by a European market of 500 million people compared to 35 million people in Canada. What were you thinking? There are perhaps even greater concerns about flooding the market. If they're gonna peel the numbers off there, they're gonna see that they're right. Canada's concerns are real, because there's a lot more going that way. This applies to trade in width and also to agricultural products. There's a lot more going that way than coming this way. But it's a fair question. We're asking for safeguards. We also ask for extra capacity for checks-and-balances and track and trace. I don't think that's what I'm asking about. I am asking for guarantees and guarantees for food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u498	I can imagine that it would be good for the Christian Union to ask for those guarantees and guarantees. Then I assume that there will be no vote on CETA next week, because I assume that the Christian Union will not be able to agree to CETA until the Minister returns with the guarantees and guarantees he has received. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna be crying out loud. I therefore assume that you are going to propose not to vote on CETA next week at least, but to give the Minister the opportunity first of all to meet your wishes with her colleagues in Brussels. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u499	You don't know the timeline. I don't know what's possible or not. I know that this minister is not sitting still and regularly in Brussels and has contacts with the Commissioner for Trade. It's not the first time I've had our concerns. I've said it before in the media and so on, so they're not unknown. I take it the minister hasn't been sitting still in the meantime. But we have to wait and see what the timeline is. For the time being, I assume that we can just vote on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u500	We have been talking about this treaty for 12 years. As I have always understood, there are fundamental objections to this treaty in the Christian Union. They would now suddenly have been resolved in four days, so the treaty would be voting. I find that very cloudy, I must say, Mr Voordewind. That's not how I got to know you in all these years. Aren't you gonna let sand throw itself in the eyes? You are now asking for guarantees and guarantees, when you are actually aware that they are not actually feasible. Or, worse still, do you throw sand in the eyes of others by asking for guarantees and guarantees now, when you know that is actually not feasible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u501	This Minister himself has margins and can do something himself. I would like to mention, for example, the expansion of customs capacity. That could be an extra guarantee, because then we have a finger on the wrist and tighten up supervision. With regard to the other aspects I have mentioned, I would ask the Minister to do so. For me, it's important what this minister says. These are very important points. When I look at the Minister and she gives me her word that she is going to be tough on this in Brussels, I assume she will. At the same time, I hope to hear a sound from Brussels. But it is a request, an effort by this Minister to see whether we can obtain additional guarantees, additional audits for the benefit of food safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u502	I'm going to see Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u503	I would like to go into this further. I understand that in the end you want to do something that your constituents don't want to do and that you need something to show the grassroots: look, I asked for some guarantees and the Minister said that she is doing her best and going to Brussels for us. But in the end, colleagues have indicated that it is very difficult or not going to happen. The coalition parties have prior consultation when an important law passes through the Chamber. Did you feel or receive news or information in the preliminary consultation which made you feel that it is going to happen, that the Minister is going to bring something in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u504	We have expressed our objections. You were able to read that in the paper. I've said it on television a few times. The Minister also reads newspapers and watches television and will therefore know very well where our objections lie. Of course, as coalition parties, we are in contact with where our objections lie. That won't come as a complete surprise. Nor will it be the case that this minister has to put all that together in four days. We already had this debate on the agenda in November. Then I asked the Chamber to give me a delay. We were already working on the guarantees we needed. So we don't think about what we find from one moment to the next. This is what we've been doing for months. We've had extensive round tables. We've had a lot of parties along and also talked to many parties in person. We have shared the important safeguards we need and the important concerns. I'm gonna listen to the Minister's answer later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u505	The Christian Union has supported a number of motions. The Christian Union has shown which direction it wants to take. The five seats... or how many you have... are crucial to get the law through this Chamber. I understand that there is a tremendous pressure on you, a tremendous pressure from the coalition, from the minister, from your group chairman. I understand that there's a lot of pressure and that you need something to make yourself and your constituents feel a little bit like you've brought something in. I get all that. Don't you really think you're fooling yourself and your people with this? You're holding them a sausage, an inlay sheet. Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u506	Look, Mr. Öztürk, you can easily orbit the microphone there. You can stand on the sidelines. You can tell me how bad the world is. You can say: what happens to all of us when it comes to food safety? You can say: what a misery in the world! But I would recommend that you take responsibility for once, too, to see how you can use your margins. Indeed, we only have five seats and we need a majority. I would recommend you to see if you can think constructively and what you can contribute, and not just say how bad the world is. If you say how bad it all is and then it does happen, the consumer, the Dutch people, is also not helping that we get more pesticides in our food here. We are here as a Chamber to stand up for food safety, for every citizen we represent. We are here to promote the interests of farmers in part, when it comes to fair trade. At least, maybe not everyone, but they make up a third of our economy. We have to take that seriously. If you have constructive ideas about how to do better, I would like to hear them instead of just saying 'what terrible' and 'you are under the tension of the coalition'. Those are easy lyrics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u507	Finally, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u508	Yeah, I took responsibility. I became a Member of Parliament in 2012, at the time for the PvdA. And we've been in the coalition with the VVD. I know what that is. For two years I've worked in such a coalition...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u509	Then come up with your proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u510	...and that's why I know how that works in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u511	Then come forward with your constructive proposals. I didn't hear that one. You're just against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u512	Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u513	I have not yet made my contribution, so how can Mr Voordewind say this? My point is, I know what that pressure means. And I know you need something to make that turn. I know that, and that is why I ask you once again: are you sincere towards yourself and are you also sincere towards your members and your constituents if you are going to make that turn with these inserts? I don't think that's fair. I am trying to give you to be honest and just say: we had to succumb, we had to swallow the million more and we simply had to come along. That is also an honest answer to your constituency.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u514	Mr. Öztürk, you make one-liners. You claim and you frame and you go ahead. I await your constructive ideas on how to improve food safety in the Netherlands and Europe. And then I expect really serious constructive proposals. As long as you don't come up with that, you're gonna have easy politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u515	Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u516	This is really an empty call from Mr Voordewind, because the text of the Treaty is final. If we were to make proposals here to improve, for example, the dispute resolution mechanism, for example, by giving trade unions access to it, that would not be possible at all. The points in this treaty that the Christian Union has always objected to are already clear. I simply note that Mr Voordewind is talking about additional measures, accompanying policies and an obligation to do so, but the fact is that this treaty contains matters that the Christian Union has always said it cannot agree to. What changed in the meantime? Why has the Christian Union been turned?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u517	Mr Alkaya and his party are against and against, I understand. Nor have I heard any constructive proposals for improving food safety. I have not heard how we can still trade with any country. Because if we have to meet Mr Alkaya's demands, then trade will end a little bit with Belgium, I think. We live here in a world in which we are dealing with a farming sector that ensures food safety and food security. If we do not do justice to farmers and do not give them the opportunity to make the transition to circular agriculture, if we cannot guarantee food safety and just say how bad it is, but are not prepared to think about how we can guarantee food safety in Europe in our existing relations, then we will abandon our role as parliamentarians. After all, we cannot stop at the borders of Belgium. We cannot stop at the borders of France, Germany or Portugal. We need a scale increase for our trade. This means that if we were to apply all the standards we are demanding here in the Netherlands, we would no longer be able to trade outside Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u518	Compare this with the Christian Union from a few years ago. So this is what going into business with the VVD apparently does to the party. The same rhetoric, the same ridiculous cries. It is not a question of whether or not you are trading, it is a question of whether you are doing that duty-free or asking for tariffs for products coming from countries where other standards apply. There is already trade with Canada and because there are other standards, there are tariffs. These tariffs are now being abolished by the Christian Union, which it has always opposed. It's in the Christian Union election program. What changed at that time? What did the VVD do to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u519	The rates don't change. The liberalisation is not going through for poultry, chicken and eggs. There are quotas that remain for pigmeat and beef. Those are all quotas. There is no question of total liberalization of everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u520	Are the quotas for pigs being increased or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u521	No, quotas remain for sensitive sectors and tariffs remain. So we are looking at how we can protect our own farmers, how we can continue to apply food security and food safety here, how we can apply labour standards, how we can apply animal welfare and environmental standards here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u522	Finally, Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u523	Finally. Then the Christian Union should have included this in the election programme, but they did not. They have said that if there is an agricultural component at all, we are against it. I can see that the Christian Union is really twisted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u524	Mr President, in those quotas...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u525	Are there quotas going up with this treaty or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u526	Mr Alkaya has already drawn all kinds of conclusions. There are all assumptions in your speech. I hear all kinds of frames from our point of view. I have now made it clear to the cabinet where our concerns lie. How can you blame me for taking a clear position now other than 2016? I present the same concerns as I did in 2016. I make these concerns clear to the cabinet again, and we have not yet decided on our position, which depends on the reaction of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u527	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u528	That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u529	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u530	No, Mrs. Ouwehand, I'm very sorry. You have most of the interruptions of all. Yeah, really, it's been kept up to date, and you keep an incredibly long introduction to every interruption. I should like to give Mr Voordewind the opportunity to conclude his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u531	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I talked about the conversion fund. Then the International Court System. The ICS, which has been rigged at the same time as CETA, is an improved version of ISDS. We have previously had great objections to this latter system and the ICS is still not what the Christian Union would think of. It should not really be necessary in a treaty between Canada and the EU. I understand that the Netherlands was not in favour either, but that we accept this. It seems that Canada has doubts about the independence of the judiciary in some European Member States. At least the step from ISDS to ICS has been an improvement. There, NGOs and individuals can be heard as third parties, public interests are guaranteed and there is a right to regulate. That really is an improvement on the old ISDS. Again, we didn't have to, but there are improvements to it. I therefore ask the Minister to confirm that the ICS cannot indeed restrict the Dutch government in its policy freedom. Can the Minister also exclude that this poses a risk to the implementation of, for example, the Climate Agreement, the Green Deal, has just been mentioned by Mr Jetten, or of other measures taken by the public authorities in the public interest? I am referring, for example, to policies on gas extraction and housing. I would like to hear a confirmation from the Minister on that point. Finally, international corporate social responsibility. We strive in the Netherlands and in Europe for high standards in the areas of the environment, animal welfare, working conditions. We often have debates about the imvo. On the contrary, we are trying to translate these principles, which are also enshrined in the UN Guidelines, into the Netherlands, as already laid down in legislation in several countries. We want a race to the top and no race to the bottom. I would therefore ask the Minister whether she is also in favour of a law on the ground if the evaluation of the agreements between the Member States shows that this policy has not had sufficient effect. Therefore, that law laying down these standards as a minimum could apply to Canadian products, which may be made available on the market. Finally, Mr President. I have outlined our group's dilemma and asked the Minister a number of pressing questions. We await the Minister's answers with great interest and interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u532	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. A brief question from Mrs Ouwehand. Just one quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u533	A quick question. Mr Voordewind spoke about safeguards, and in the course of his speech it seemed to be a commitment. A supplementary question, therefore. Does the Christian Union also want Canada to cooperate? Is it a condition that Canada says: we're okay with that? Or is it enough if Minister Kaag just gets a shopping list and talks about it with the European Commission and then nothing comes of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u534	Of course, we want Canada to cooperate. If you want to do extra audits on those 36 certified companies, you can't do them without Canada's permission. I understand the questions that come from the Chamber. At the same time, of course, I cannot ask the Minister to speak for Canada now. I can, however, appeal to this Minister to an effort which I would like to make from her question to the European Commission and to the Canadian government. What I can do is appeal to this minister to what she can do herself. That has to do with the customs capacity. So, yeah, it's kicked. We need Canada. That is why I cannot say: these are our demands and you will take care of it, and if you cannot arrange it, too bad. I put our concerns to the Minister and ask her: do you want to go to the European Commission and go to Canada to see if we can get closer supervision when it comes to those 36 companies and prevent pesticides banned in Europe from ending up in Europe from Canada? That's what I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u535	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. Let me now give the floor...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u536	But should it be clear to the Christian Union before the votes whether Canada is cooperating, or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u537	First, I await the Minister's response. Perhaps at this moment she knows more than I do about the situation in Brussels. I await the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u538	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I now give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u539	Mr. Chairman. The question before us is perhaps not so much whether we want to ratify a trade agreement between the EU and Canada as how important we still think our economy is. As far as I am concerned, it is important to note today that we are living in a society in which we are so good thanks to this economy, and that this economy is running so well thanks to our beautiful companies. Many of these companies operate outside our own borders. That is why it is good for our economy to remove trade barriers. The Dutch economy benefits from open borders without tariffs and charges. In 2007, parts of CETA entered. Dutch companies sold 3.4 billion in goods to Canada in the following year. That's a 12% increase. We sold 2.3 billion in services. That's a 23% increase. In 2018, the transhipment of Canadian goods in the port of Rotterdam grew by as much as 38%. The EU trade surplus with Canada has increased by 60% since the introduction of CETA, a huge percentage. The Netherlands is a trading country par excellence and, as a small country, more than other countries depend on foreign markets. Two thirds of our income is earned abroad, and that has made our country the sixteenth economy of the world. That is something to be proud of, but it is also something that is taken very easily for granted when it goes too well for too long. Mr. Chairman. I understand very well that there are arguments against treaties in general and also specifically against CETA. Firstly, that is the European argument. Of course, it is uncomfortable that French and Germans have also negotiated a trade agreement with Canada on our behalf. Who guarantees us that French and German interests are not put above Dutch interests, and that German cars, for example, have not been exchanged against Dutch pork, a frequently heard forgery? By the way, Mrs Ploumen herself was there. At the time, MP Jan Vos said that almost all the demands of the Labour Party were met. So we have been able to make a very big contribution to it. Nor am I a fan of the EU as it now operates, with thousands of officials and a staggering and exploding budget. To a large extent, I share the criticism of the EU. It's not for nothing that the British have thanked for the honor. However, if we, as a small country, had never been able to conclude such a treaty with Canada, in this case the EU has in any case provided for a treaty whereby 98% of tariffs have disappeared on thousands of products. If we then find that since the entry into force of CETA in 2017, Dutch exports to Canada have increased much more than imports from Canada, we can see that despite the fact that the EU has negotiated this agreement, the Netherlands has finally improved. I would therefore like to say to those who are opposed to CETA because of the EU's argument: be a little opportunistic today. Now that something good is coming from the EU, I would simply receive that gift. The most convincing EU argument for all these parties is the following: if CETA is not ratified by the Netherlands, the Convention will remain in force for the parts that entered into force in 2017. If the EU wants to stop that, it can, but that power lies with the European Parliament. That is a bit cynical, because if we reject CETA now, it is not only bad for our economy, but we are actually giving more power to Brussels. Mr. Chairman. Another widely heard argument is that this trade agreement would lead to lower standards. CETA would be a race to the bottom for the quality of the products. Mr Baudet. Excuse me. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u540	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u541	Thank you. Let me ask you something. I hear Mr Van Haga saying that if we rejected CETA now, we would paradoxically give more power to the EU. I can follow the logic in a superficial sense, but I do not think it is right. The point is precisely that we have lost a great deal of sovereignty. Whether we approve it or not, part of it remains in operation, at least for the time being. We don't have a handle on that at all. But if we say no now, I do not think we will lose any new powers to the EU. Or do you see it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u542	No, I didn't. You are right that we have already transferred a great deal of that sovereignty. If we don't do something now, we will stay that way, but we won't have any more, but we won't have any less to say about it. It just stays that way. Then the decision-making power lies with the European Parliament. Then it depends on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u543	Yes, but isn't it also very good for that reason to say no to this treaty? That'll show you how much power we've already lost. Isn't it a misconception when you say that we can't really be against it anymore because we've already lost that power, so we might as well be for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u544	That is precisely the paradox, but I think that Mr Baudet wants to send out more of a signal: we have already lost a great deal of sovereignty and now say no. But that doesn't really make much sense. I think you're more interested in the fact that we should have a nexit so that we wouldn't have lost that sovereignty at all and could have done it ourselves. But it's not. We have transferred that sovereignty and are in the factual situation that we are in the EU. Then the strange paradox is that you are right in saying that, in your opinion, if we reject this now, we will not get anywhere with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u545	Finally, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u546	Nice cufflinks Mr. Van Haga has. Could he tell us anything about that? I see the British flag.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u547	Yeah, the Union Jack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u548	We'll do that in another setting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u549	We do that in a different setting indeed. Good. Many people say that CETA would be a race to the bottom, but nothing is less true. The higher standards of the EU and Canada simply remain in force. In fact, this leads to a race to the top. By the way, this is a quote from former Minister Lilianne Ploumen of the Labour Party. Moreover, Mr Ploumen has said before: this treaty with Canada must become the norm. That's how much she liked it. And I actually thought that was very good. It was a nice cabinet in which the Labour Party negotiated this treaty hard. No hormone-treated beef enters the EU through this treaty. What will happen, I hope, is that we will have a discussion and that this will lead to harmonisation of standards at the highest level. And passers-by also matters such as the protection of intellectual property are better regulated than without a treaty. Mr. Chairman. The Investment Court System, i.e. the Investment Tribunal or Dispute Settlement System, is denounced by many parties. It would allow multinationals to make claims against the Dutch government if the government introduced new rules with all its good intentions. But nothing could be further from the truth. ICS is a form of arbitration that protects companies from a government that makes unreasonable decisions...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's only logical. If you invest as a company and the government does these kind of crazy, inappropriate things, then it's very reasonable that there's a system for that. Then it is also very nice that this can happen faster than under normal law. ICS therefore ensures a quick and reasonable handling in case the government suddenly sets another course that a company could not have seen coming and causing damage to the company. Instead of having to conduct a 10-year procedure against the State, you can claim compensation through this investment tribunal in a shorter procedure. ICS is an improvement compared to the old ISDS. It is more transparent and works with independent judges, and even activists and citizens can join the process. I do not know if I am so happy with that myself, but I think that is an improvement for the left side of the Chamber. In other jurisdictions, take personal and family law. You want people to make use of the possibilities outside the usual legal system. Arbitration of mediation often leads to a quick and proper settlement of a conflict and there is nothing strange about this. Moreover, it relieves the legal system, which is already overloaded. And no, it's not possible to hitch a ride through a mailbox company. The Investment Court System therefore offers several advantages and is therefore motivating companies to act more. Mr. Chairman. A legitimate concern is still the one in the field of animal welfare. Mr Ouwehand is right to make this a major point. A piece of meat that comes to the border is checked in accordance with EU and Canada standards. At that time, therefore, that piece of meat has to meet those standards, but it is unknown what exactly happened before that. We do not know how well or how badly the animal in question was treated before it ended its life and turned into a steak or a pork patch. It's a legitimate concern. But first of all, animal welfare in the Netherlands is not always 100% regulated. Regular videos show that animals are being abused, not to mention the ritual of unsedated slaughter, which is still taking place in the Netherlands. Secondly, Canada is a modern western country with similar animal welfare standards. I have sometimes wondered in previous debates why we in the Netherlands are doing everything we can to maintain a perverse deal with Iran, while we are struggling to conclude a beautiful treaty with a country like Canada. Canada is a model democracy with similar standards and values. If Canada can't do it, who can? Finally, the trade agreement states that we are still discussing this issue. My question to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation is therefore exactly how these talks are organised. How many of these talks have been held since the entry into force of CETA in 2017? It would be nice if some results could be reported, because then we can see that it really works. Mr. Chairman. Another argument I have heard is that Dutch farmers will go bankrupt. However, Dutch farmers are among the best in the world. With the highest quality and best production methods, the Netherlands is the largest agricultural exporter in the world by our farmers after the US. 60% of our farmers live on exports. Since the entry into force of CETA, exports have only increased. Vulnerable sectors are protected by quotas; it has already been reported by Mr Weverling. For example, the number of tariff-free kilos for beef is less than 1% of the European market and even less than 0.5% for pigs. LTO Netherlands represents 53% of all farms and 63% of total production. LTO Nederland is for CETA. LTO Nederland even says literally: "CETA produces farmers and gardeners more than it costs and the Netherlands, as a small country with an open economy, has a strong interest in international trade." I think I can conclude with this. A majority of farmers are in favour of CETA and exports have already increased enormously since the entry into force of CETA. The figures therefore show a reassuring picture. The Dutch agri-food sector had a trade surplus of around 113 million euros with Canada in 2018, as Canadian products accounted for only 0.3% of the agri-food imported by the Netherlands. So it's totally marginal. But there are still a few strategic interests at stake. Firstly, Canada is an important trading partner for the Netherlands. So we need to secure our existing trade. Canada also enters into trade agreements with other countries outside the EU. So if we do not ratify CETA and run out of CETA, it will weaken our competitiveness and will lead our economy as well. Economic and diplomatic relations with a friendly country are at stake. Thirteen EU countries have already ratified CETA. If the Netherlands were to torpedo CETA alone, it would not only be very bad for our own economy, but it would also be a diplomatic sacrifice of Canada, a friendly country. Moreover, we are fighting the wrong fight in this place today. While China is completely unfairly competing the rest of the world and blowing our shopkeepers out of the shopping streets, we are a little bit mosquitoing about CETA. While mail order companies from China are flooding our country with dangerous and unapproved products, we are debating whether cows will have enough room to graze in Canada. It's really the world upside down. In conclusion. You need to look at the big picture. If you look only at the dairy, it may give a different picture, but I can only conclude that CETA is ultimately good for our economy and does not pose a risk to our product standards, that the fear of the Investment Court System is completely unfounded, that animal welfare becomes negotiable and that it would be a blessing for a country like Canada. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u550	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u551	Mr. Chairman. Ahem. Excuse me, it's getting a little too much for me right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u552	Emotions are high, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u553	Mr. Chairman. It is a little too early for the closure of the day, but I cannot be left behind with the colleague of the Animal Party, Mrs Ouwehand. If she starts her speech with a reference to the Bible text that the minister has spoken about, then I would like to quote that Bible text here in this House of State General in the State Translation. Then the text reads as follows: "He has made you known, O man! which is good; and what demandth the LORD of thee, but to do right, and to love kindness, and to walk humbly with thy God?" And "He," that's the good God. It is indeed a wonderful reason for a nice compact sermon, because there are three points in it and a decent sermon consists of three points, I have always learned. That is to say, "do justice," so to each other, leave each one in its value. "Love kindness," you take care of the other, love your neighbor. And not to mention the third point, perhaps the cumulation point: "to walk humbly with your God." That is to say, love God above all else. While I was listening to the speeches and also Mrs Ouwehand's explanatory statement and her reflection on this, I thought: yes, actually this is a wonderful summary of how we, as a SGP, try to make our contributions. So on the one hand, take responsibility from the position you take. Take responsibility, do justice, but also benevolent, so love your neighbor. But all this under the notion of dependence and association with the creator of heaven and earth. Mr President, this is not a closed day, because, of course, Mr Baudet is still giving us his treatise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u554	Officer, he's calling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u555	Yes, we have colleagues here and one of our colleagues. So be it. I just wanted to start with my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u556	Mr Bishop has just spoken for one minute, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u557	Yeah, but she probably wants to give up a psalm to sing it together, because that's part of the worship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u558	I admit, I don't read the American translation. That's all way too old-fashioned, so I got these hip lyrics from Micha. He also mentioned that it is not good to collect your wealth unfairly. I was wondering whether this also fits the SGP in the assessment framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u559	Oh, yeah. That's part of justice. If you collect that in an unfair way, it can only be at the expense of another. That's why I'd say do justice. But doing justice is much more than just collecting your income, your earnings, your money in a fair way. It's a lot more than that. It's also leaving the other in its value and doing justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u560	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u561	Mr. Chairman. Almost two and a half years ago, parts of the CETA Convention entered into force provisionally. You have already understood that the SGP voted against this at the time. Our main concerns were the future of farmers and the ISDS arbitration system. That is why we called on the government to better map the economic, social and environmental consequences of CETA. Today, we are again making a final assessment: ratifying or not? Mr. Chairman. The SGP recognises that there are arguments for CETA. Canada is first and foremost an important ally. For that we do not have to fall back on gratitude for their contribution to liberation 75 years ago, although that is, of course, a historical fact. It is also geopolitically an important ally. In the perspective of global tensions, trade wars and the very assertive world power China alone, one must hold on to one another. In this context, the SGP Group strongly supports the EU-Canada Strategic Partner Agreement. Secondly, the treaty under the line is likely to offer trade advantages. It can promote the export of goods and services and facilitate investment, although one can of course ask oneself who benefits above all from an extra half a billion euros of trade in fossil fuels, as happened after provisional entry into force. At least the climate isn't. Finally, the Investment Court System (ICS), which has already been reviewed regularly, provides for more transparent procedures and better redress. That really is an improvement over the original construction, the ISDS. However, I would also like to be clear about the real or foreseeable disadvantages of the trade agreement. Firstly, although limited quotas have been introduced for the vulnerable beef and pork sector, they may also have a significant impact on limited additional imports. Tariff-free quotas for agricultural products will continue to increase in the coming years. This also applies to the import of wheat, which, in our view, is contrary to the circular agriculture envisaged by the government, to which we have referred and which is still in statu nascendi, which is still to be born. Secondly, the Cabinet can undermine CETA's level playing field. Yes, I do. European product standards, such as animal welfare, remain in place. But the chain requirements are even different, different, and different from those in Canada, even between the different countries within the EU. For example, the cultivation of wheat and fodder crops in Canada is subject to lower environmental standards. This puts the Dutch producer at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the Canadian competitor. Thirdly, the ICS can indeed constitute a restriction on the sovereignty of the governments. The Minister rightly says that ICS does not undermine the regulatory autonomy and freedom of policy of the Netherlands. No. That will certainly be true, but it is also not about the front of the whole process but about the back of the process. It is a question of its application. When claims from companies that are at odds with public health or development policy are coming in, we are not just gumbling them away. The same applies, and perhaps especially, to the lack of democratic control over the so-called treaty committees. These ultimately come, on the basis of case law, generated by the ICS, within the framework of the Convention, to an interpretation of the application of the Convention. No parliament has anything to say about that anymore. That is what I mean by the lack of democratic control over the treaty committees. In addition, the ICS is only accessible to investors and businesses, and not to civil society. That's an inequality that disrupts good checks-and-balances or gets in the way. If you really want that balanced, you should organise a counterpower.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u562	Since the SGP is the state conscience of this Chamber, I would ask Mr Bishop to appreciate the amendment tabled by the PVV this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u563	Thank you. We have looked at this with great interest. In fact, we came to the conclusion that it is entirely in line with the constitutional line we advocate as a SGP. In fact, I would ask you to submit that amendment on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u564	Look, Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u565	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u566	That's an adequate appreciation, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u567	Sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u568	A one-two will be arranged between Mrs Van Wijngaarden and Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u569	No, Mrs. Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u570	Oh, Van Weerdenburg. Oh, excuse me. Then there is a fourth point. That is a serious objection for my group. In addition to CETA, we must also take account of the review of the Dutch agricultural policy. It has just been deployed and some parties even speak of halving the livestock. We have to take into account the nitrogen-depleting, which hangs above the head of the agricultural sector like a sword of Damocles. And we have to take into account the ever stricter climate policy from Brussels, the Green Deal, and the Mercosur Treaty, which is under negotiation. The uncertainty about all this and its accumulation are life-threatening for a vital Dutch agricultural sector. Mr. Chairman. This realization, this point, really lies on our stomachs like a rock. My questions to the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development are therefore as follows. Firstly, is it not a double standard to impose all kinds of additional requirements on Dutch agriculture while at the same time giving more room for imports of products which do not have to meet the same guaranteed chain requirements and cultivation and production requirements? My second question is: does the Minister understand the concerns of farmers in particular about the cumulative effect of everything they are currently dealing with, all the policies and aspects that are on the move? Does the Minister consider a no to the Mercosur Convention in this respect, although that is, of course, still under negotiation? Thirdly, how is the Minister going to compensate for sectors that will suffer significant disadvantages from CETA? That is also a question we have asked before. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to the conclusion. The SGP Group has serious doubts about the necessity and overall added value of CETA. It may be that the Treaty offers important commercial advantages, but it also has negative consequences for our agriculture, sovereignty and creation. Our concerns about this two and a half years ago have not been convincingly addressed. Shouldn't we go back to the drawing board for a new model of CETA? I had prepared a text here which I have read once again, after hearing Mr Ouwehand's contribution. I was wondering if I wrote all this down correctly. The text reads as follows: "Should we not return to the drawing board for a new model for CETA, a new model for future trade agreements, a model that serves not only the interests of international investors and gives them access to dispute resolution, but also the interests of those who stand up for market protection, sustainability, social justice?'. I left it anyway, because there's a difference in nuance. I look forward to the Minister's response. Mr President, thank you very much for your inexhaustible warm patience.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u571	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u572	A quick question. I know that the SGP has asked for compensation before, when we were not ready for this debate on CETA. Then the cabinet did it for the pig farmers. But in the meantime, the situation has changed again. Mr Bishop is right to describe this: the problems of nitrogen and everything farmers need to change. The pig farmers who then said on the basis of that compensation 'all right, then we can live with it' are now in the farmers' camp who say: do not do it to us. Is that decisive for the SGP, or is there going to be another question for a whole new compensation exercise?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u573	That's a complicated question. What makes the present treaty very difficult at the moment is all the other policies on the agricultural sector that have now begun to run. If I say yes to this without concern, then we say: but money has already been allocated to the cleaning up of pig farming; should there be more money? Yeah, right now, I don't have a complete view of that. I do think that should be handled carefully. And if there are demonstrably agricultural sectors that suffer damage, then we must have the courage to look at it. You can also look at the fruit and vegetables sector and the meat sector. So I find it difficult to give a conclusive answer to that now, but I do think that as a policy the question should be constantly taken into account: what is reasonable, what is fair and what is right? Because as a government, you have to do justice in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u574	Or we just say no to CETA, as the farmers ask us to do. Then it's not complicated and it's obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u575	Yes, it's very nice to have a very clear approach. We are still waiting for the Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u576	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u577	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 3,000 families in Angola who were expelled from their homes overnight. Not because of floods, not because of war and not because of terrorist violence, but because their house happened to stand in the way and had to give way to the greed of developers. With tear gas and other heavy artillery, innocent families were thrown out into the street. According to Trouw's investigative journalists, a Dutch dredging company, a Dutch bank and a Dutch credit insurance company would be directly involved in these abuses. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, this sad story isn't on its own. Previously, I asked Parliamentary questions in response to reports that a Dutch pharmaceutical company would exploit employees and violate environmental rules in India. Almost every week we read about environmental activists who were murdered in South America, such as the tragic death last week of butterfly protectors Raul Hernandez and Homero Gomez in Mexico, who are fighting against illegal logging. At the same time, we see inequality growing all over the world every day. The rich are getting richer and the difference with the poorest is getting bigger. The more than 2,000 billionaires in the world together are now richer than 60% of the world's population. Does the Minister share our concern about this? Mr. Chairman. As far as the PvdA is concerned, the debate we are having today on CETA is dominated by the question of how we are going to reverse that trend. How to share prosperity more fairly within countries and globally. How we manage to maintain prosperity without compromising people and the environment. And especially how we give NGOs and trade unions a fair voice. Mr. Chairman. I don't want to go behind the dikes. I just want to get on the barricades and raise the bar. Because the false contradiction that some parties are creating here tonight, I do not share at all. I said it before and I'm just saying it again: the PvdA is not against trade. For a reason, the PvdA initiated the aid and trade agenda, in which development aid and the realization of fair work would go hand in hand worldwide. But fair trade doesn't go without healthy counterpower. Fair trade depends on strong trade unions, critical civil society organisations and environmental activists. That is why we must ensure at all times that people who stand up for their rights and freedoms can do so freely. We know that not everyone in this Chamber attaches the same importance to that voice of trade unions and NGOs, especially when they criticize the Dutch government or our business. But for the PvdA, that space has always been a priority for our civil society. That space deserves to be defended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u578	Mrs van den Hul begins her speech with abuses which I think we all condemn in this Chamber. Whether it is what happened in Angola or the examples she mentioned in Latin America, I think everyone in this Chamber agrees that this is unacceptable. But here we are debating the free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. My question is actually very simple. Is the Labour Party still prepared to adopt its position on this free trade agreement on the basis of this debate? Or is it already clear to you how you're going to vote next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u579	I think our position is very clear. That is that we stand for fair trade worldwide and that fair trade requires clear agreements. These clear agreements also mean that there is a balance between, on the one hand, the interests of companies and, on the other hand, the interests of civil society, of people and the environment. At the moment, these interests are not sufficiently secured in the text before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u580	This is what makes people at home really cynical, I guess. It is a PvdA Minister, Mrs Lilianne Ploumen, who negotiates this treaty on behalf of the Netherlands. Every time she stood here or sent letters to the Chamber, she said again: this is the best trade agreement we have ever concluded; this treaty is good for the Netherlands. And then we see somewhere this fall that really one day after GroenLinks a two... Sorry, a movie had tweeted... It's a little late for me, too. One day after GroenLinks had tweeted a video, Mr Asscher said, also in a tweet: we are now also against CETA. People at home don't understand that. These people see that the Labour Party is responsible for the final result that is now before us, that the Minister who negotiated it, Lilianne Ploumen, said: this is the best trade agreement we have ever concluded. How can you say 'I am voting against it because it is not 100% perfect' when you were responsible for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u581	Important improvements have indeed been made in the previous cabinet. It was just about the steps taken from ISCS to ICS. But it really cannot surprise anyone here in this Chamber, so if you feign amazement, then I wish you every success in doing so, that we were critical and remain on third party access, trade unions and other NGOs, to that investment protection. I will come back to this later in my speech, but that is a position that we have also expressed in previous debates. My predecessors did so during the previous cabinet period. That's what we're gonna do. Because it is precisely when we see CETA as a blueprint for trade agreements in the future that we do so, and just when we believe in fair trade, as we do, that we now have the chance to take that step forward and not accept the status quo, but raise the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u582	The fact that Mrs Van den Hul continues to fight to raise that bar even higher is a very good thing. I'll do that with her. But if this is the real story of the Labour Party, then in the previous cabinet, when Lilianne Ploumen signed on behalf of the Netherlands, you should have called that minister directly to the Chamber to call her to account. But you didn't. You then spoke praisefully on your own website about our relationship with Canada and said how good this trade agreement is for the Netherlands and the world and that it is not a race to the bottom, but that this treaty is our chance to get that race to the top. It is a new trade treaty, in which for the first time we pay attention to climate, animal rights and gender equality. It's in this trade agreement. From opportunism, because GroenLinks is afraid to join, the Labour Party says: we are against this time. We'll see how you vote next time you're in a cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u583	This is a really short turn. Mr Jetten does not go into the points I have just mentioned, namely: let us make sure that we raise that bar now. In the previous group, too, we asked for this investment protection to be extended to include protection of interests. It is not for nothing that my group put forward proposals, very concrete proposals, to that end. At that time, reality was different than it is now. At that time, a multilateral court seemed to be a dot on the horizon that really seemed real. Now we're told that's a far-from-my-bed show and that's probably not feasible. In the meantime, we have made several proposals to ensure that we guarantee that fair trade. We have not been reassured on any of these points that this cabinet has taken up our concerns. So no, we're not satisfied yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u584	Can Mrs van den Hul explain why they took responsibility at the time and not now? Because nothing has changed in substance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u585	We voted in favour in the knowledge that CETA would return to the House of Representatives with the investment part. We're having that conversation here tonight. At least we, my predecessors from the previous group, assumed that improvements were still possible. That is why we have put forward proposals. In the previous group, we made very concrete proposals to ensure that this investment protection was really extended. Unfortunately, we have to note that this has not been sufficiently achieved and that we do not see enough progress from this cabinet on this issue, not only within CETA, but also in relation to the wider fair trade agenda. That is why we are not sufficiently reassured about these concerns.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u586	But there's a greater interest than just the interest you're talking about right now, isn't there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u587	I assume that Mr Weverling is now referring to the business interest and the economic importance of this trade agreement. I have just said that we naturally welcome trade agreements that create jobs. Nor are we opposed to trade agreements. But they have to be honest. CETA, a treaty with a progressive country like Canada, with which I believe we are looking at the world in many respects through the same glasses, is an excellent opportunity for us to raise the bar, so that we have that bar high when we start negotiating with countries where the rule of law is much less robust. Think of trade agreements to be concluded with countries such as Brazil, China and mention some countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u588	When I speak of great interests, I mean that we cannot go back to the drawing board now, because then all the negotiations must start again. We had come this far under your guidance, under the guidance of Mrs Ploumen. That ICS is not entirely blissful, but that does not apply very much to the Netherlands, as we have seen before today. So why do you draw your signature from underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u589	There is now a very dramatic disaster scenario, a kind of all-or-nothing scenario. I think it's scary. I also think that we will be completely ignoring the concerns that are indeed there on the part of civil society. I do not know if you have seen how many people have said that they are concerned and how many NGOs have indicated worldwide. Yesterday we received a letter from 70 NGOs from the South that they are concerned about investment protection. If we want to be able to count on support for international cooperation in the future, it is now important to take these concerns seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u590	Finally, Mr Weverling on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u591	The point is, it's all or nothing, too. You have to say yes or no. That's just so frustrating. You said yes before, and now you're going to say no. In fact, nothing has changed. The more important thing is not just that we say no here in the Chamber. No, there is a welfare interest, there is an interest for the economy, for jobs, and there is also an interest towards other EU countries. "No" is a tough no. It just isn't any different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u592	The whole problem is that nothing has changed. In the previous group, we were still optimistic that there was still room for action on investment protection and that further steps could be taken towards that multilateral court. There has not been enough of that. In fact, nothing came of it. That is why we have no choice but to draw this conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u593	Mr. Jetten, you've just been here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u594	Certainly, Mr President, but this is, I think, the crux of this debate. I have Mrs Van den Hul very high up. She knows how this works. She knows how the international context in which the negotiations are taking place in order to reach such agreements is working. So she also knows that there is no second round of negotiations. At the time Lilianne Ploumen signed CETA on behalf of the Netherlands in 2016, the negotiations were over. Then the PvdA knew: for Ploumen, or all the ministers who come afterwards, there is no possibility to renegotiate or amend this treaty. So how come you said yes then and now say: no, it's not good enough yet; Ploumen or the people after her should have done better. You know damn well that there was no such option. Saying no now is the end of CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u595	I don't share that scenario, as I just said. It really ignores the wide-ranging concerns that there really are. It also ignores other countries where these debates are still taking place. It is now being pretended that the Netherlands is a sort of small Gaul village that is the only one who is having a difficult conversation about CETA. That's far from the truth. In France, CETA is by the Assemblée, but in the Senate it is not possible to count on a majority at all. Germany has not yet ratified it. There too, it's quite a conversation. I also mention Italy. Why not now, so I ask again, on the barricades and along with a progressive coalition of the willing, noting that there are broader shared concerns, ensuring that we raise the bar now, precisely in view of the future in that rapidly changing world?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u596	Mrs van den Hul also knows that we have been negotiating this treaty for years and must now say yes to the free trade agreement and, in the meantime, fight with the coalition of the will for an even better multilateral agreement. But this is ultimately about the reliability of the Dutch government and the reliability of the Labour Party. When we just had dinner break, I took a look at the NOS Journal. In it, a cheese farmer said: since this treaty came into force, my turnover has increased considerably because I can trade with Canada, because I do not have to pay a 250% rate on my cheese, because the Canadian consumer can now find affordable Dutch cheese on the shelves. That cheese farmer will be hearing from you tonight: "Too bad. I say no because I didn't get 100% right. I'm an unreliable Labour Party. We're not going back to the drawing board, no, CETA is going to go in the trash and hopefully in ten or twelve years there will be a new treaty, which is just a little bit better." Mrs. Van den Hul, I've held you higher than that. You know it doesn't work that way in the international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u597	CETA shall consist of two parts: the commercial part and the ICS part. I don't think the PvdA has any more problems with the trade section.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u598	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u599	They said: "We trade. What's in it has Mrs Ploumen well arranged; that's okay." Then we'll get to the ICS section. As regards the ICS, the main argument of the PvdA is that NGOs cannot participate sufficiently. I would remind you that the Netherlands, once again, has been working on trade agreements for 50 years. There are investment components in everything. Under ISDS, which is much worse, we never had a claim. NGOs have never been able to provide evidence that they cannot participate or make a strong case against companies. Now I ask Mrs van den Hul: where is the reasonableness of the Labour Party if this is the end result today and ICS is indeed a step forward? It contains three chapters on sustainability: Trade and sustainability, Trade and labour, and Trade and environment. Those are all steps forward, aren't they? And now we have to make a political consideration today and the Labour Party says: I am not at home. I am asking for the reasonableness of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u600	I'm definitely not home. I'm here in a very important debate. And what this debate is about as far as I am concerned is precisely that the sustainability agreements that Mr Amhaouch is talking about are not yet tough enough, especially when it comes to protecting interests. At the moment, we are talking about CETA, and that treaty does indeed protect the interests of companies better than those of civil society, trade unions and NGOs. I have just outlined, in an interrupting debate with Mr Jetten, the world-wide shrinking area for civil society. We can now step over it and say that the rule of law works so well in the Netherlands and in Canada, but what if we use this treaty as a blueprint, because that is what it is; that is what we have been discussing here before, going to China and South America, to countries where as an NGO you cannot knock on a court like a company does not respect trade union rights at all? What then, I ask Mr Amhaouch. Why not take the chance to make it better now? Why don't you raise the bar now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u601	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u602	The Labour Party must not take a flight forward. It was your party that did those negotiations. What's in store today has been done by your party. That's what we're judging. We have been working on this for months and years; Mr Jetten has also said so. That is what we want to judge, and not what has been discussed in the European Parliament today, for example, about Vietnam, or what we are going to do with Indonesia, or what we might ever do with America or China. What matters today is the result that your party has put on the table. As a CDA, too, we must make a reasonable assessment of this result. And that reasonableness is that ICS is an improvement on ISDS, that the Netherlands has never been charged, that sustainability paragraphs have come in and that even for companies the playing field has narrowed to make claims. The Minister has said this on several occasions. Companies can't just sue anymore. I therefore ask the PvdA once again to reflect carefully and to look at the reasonableness of what is on the table here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u603	I'm just trying to understand what Mrs. Van den Hul is saying. She says that nothing has changed since the treaty was concluded. In the press release I quoted earlier in my contribution, I will not repeat it all: "EU Member States have reached agreement. In addition to the CETA Convention text, Member States have also agreed on CETA declarations. And now that all Member States are in agreement with CETA, the official signature can be signed." According to Mrs Ploumen. So it was negotiated. What else would you have wanted? It was done. You signed your autograph. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u604	I insist that our previous group wanted clearer guarantees on third-party access to ICS and that my current group remains critical of this. In the meantime, we have gone on for years and not enough has happened and not only within the CETA negotiations. As I said, we still do not have any legislation on binding compliance with OECD directives. We still don't have a multilateral court and we don't see an inch closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u605	But just say: our position has changed! You should not say: nothing happened after we were negotiated. You've been negotiated. You said your signature. Mrs Ploumen did so on behalf of the PvdA. And now you're saying nothing happened after that. No, I understand, because she was done. When you're done, you say "ready" and then you know what happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u606	Yeah, but as far as we're concerned, the work wasn't done yet. It wasn't the way it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u607	But it says here it's ready, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u608	It was still unfairly divided. In a world that is becoming increasingly uneven, it is all the more important to settle it properly now, when you talk about a treaty that is a blueprint for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u609	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u610	You've got to be kidding me. Do you have any idea how much responsibility you have here as a Member of Parliament? We're not sitting here on a tea party. You've been negotiating something. You have a responsibility to sign here as well. This can't be happening, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u611	I leave that qualification for Mr Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u612	No, that's a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u613	I don't hear a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u614	This can't be happening, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u615	You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u616	That's a question, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u617	You heard my point of view. We do not believe that this treaty can be done. We believe that it is not possible for multinationals to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u618	It's right here. Mrs Ploumen has agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u619	No, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u620	Yeah, but this is really too weird for words. Madam President, you have also agreed to this as a member of the VVD Group. This can't be happening, can it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u621	I'm not a VVD member...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u622	...I say for the Acts. And don't involve me in the content, Mr. Weverling. What do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u623	Does Mrs van den Hul think that she can look herself in the mirror now that other social democrats in Europe, other countries, are simply signing this and she is just turning? That's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u624	Good. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u625	Can she look in the mirror? That's what I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u626	Yeah, I do that every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u627	I will continue on this subject. When that signature was signed, of course nothing could happen at all. Your predecessor, Jan Vos, said: almost all the demands of the PvdA have been met, so we are very happy. I've said that before. He also said that this is a very important argument, which is that together we can act better against abuses in China, Russia or other undemocratic countries. That's a very nice thing, too. The Labour Party was very rational at that time. In fact, that's all right. There was nothing left to change at the time, but you changed your point of view. It just seems a little bizarre to me that you negotiate something and then spin it. And if you do turn, I ask why you do not choose the same route as the Christian Union has chosen now and in one way or another ask for accompanying policies or an effort obligation. That way you can maintain your credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u628	We have asked at various times for reassurance, to take away our concerns. We have made various proposals at various times, both to the previous group and since I am a Member of Parliament, to ensure that the position of civil society is better safeguarded, both in terms of CETA and ICS, but also in terms of trade agreements in the broad sense. Mr Van Haga was in many of those debates. He knows my views on this. We are not sufficiently reassured on that point. I can say the same thing about that as I just said. The world is indeed bigger than the Netherlands. Of course, we also see trade agreements as an opportunity to promote fair trade worldwide and to raise the standard. But then we must ensure that it is fair and that access is fairly distributed. This is not the case in the current text. It is precisely when we see that we are going to conclude new treaties with countries where the rule of law is not as reliable as here or in Canada that it is all the more important to treat the representation of interests fairly and carefully. That is our proposal today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u629	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Van den Hul, I know your enormous efforts in the area of the SDGs. I appreciate that. That's why I think you're high. But you're not answering my question. Why don't you choose the escape route the Christian Union seemed to choose? Why do you not ask for accompanying policies or additional things, such as an effort obligation? Because then you will retain your credibility, when it is really at stake.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u630	And my request to the Minister is quite clear to me: make sure that you go out with a coalition of the willing and that you take the farmer no pun intensively and that we raise that bar together, so that steps are indeed taken forward. Why do we not choose the same route as the Christian Union? Well, we're the Labour Party. We are not the Christian Union. The Christian Union makes its own assessment and we make our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u631	It's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u632	I read: "If you want to see opportunism, you should now turn on PvdA on CETA. Rarely such ugly politics seen." This is one of the reactions of a number of parliamentary reporters at the moment. I must agree with Mr Van Haga. The Christian Union has found a turning method: the ChristianDraaiUnion or the turning curve of Mr Voordewind. You can also say: we were in the coalition then and we had to. That's what you can say. That's fair. You can say: in coalition time we simply had to go along, we are in the opposition now, we are free and that is why we can do this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u633	Mr Voordewind has a point of order or a personal comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u634	I would appreciate it if Mr Öztürk would ask me questions if I were to stand there and not go back through Mrs Van den Hul's framing towards the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u635	Good. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u636	I have not actually heard a clear question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u637	My clear question is: can you honestly admit that in the opposition you now have the freedom to vote against this law, while in the coalition you were a little forced or imprisoned and that the Christian Union must go along and play along? That's what you can say, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u638	If I did, I'd be the first to say that. But as I said earlier, the same concerns existed in the previous group. I invite Mr Öztürk to review our latest election programmes. There was literally this position, just as I am now saying. No one can be surprised, and Mr Öztürk is not at all surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u639	I don't blame Mrs van den Hul. With the F-35, the JSF, it was the same: the coalition for and the opposition against. This is exactly why I'm standing here right now. The moment parties are in the coalition, they turn. That's exactly why a lot of people aren't going to vote anymore. That is precisely why the credibility of politics is always compromised. You can simply say honestly: it is true, we were forced into the coalition, Mrs Ploumen had to do so, and now we are free, and that is why we can vote freely and think freely. You can just say that honestly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u640	That's the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u641	Yes, it is indeed the same question and I will repeat the answer. Nothing's changed. We then voted in favour of knowing that we would still be talking about the investment part, that we would send the minister out with additional demands. We are not sufficiently reassured in that regard. And yes, that is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u642	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u643	Mr. Chairman. I was talking about this shrinking space for civil society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u644	Mrs. Diks, would you like to ask a question? Mrs. Diks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u645	That could indeed be done at another time, but I have a question for Mrs van den Hul. Of course, I recognise tremendously the questions that you have about CETA from....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The question that lives with me is: if, between now and next Tuesday, Minister Kaag were to succeed in miraculously bringing about serious changes to this CETA Convention, if the ICS were to be written out, would the Labour Party agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u646	Then there will be a whole new situation. I think it's a hypothetical scenario, which we'll have to look at again. I say quite honestly that, knowing Europe, it does not seem very realistic to me that it would happen within this time limit. But if that situation were to arise, we would have to look at it and, above all, at the precise conditions and details of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u647	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u648	I was talking about the shrinking space of our civil society. That space deserves to be defended, especially when we see that this space is increasingly under pressure and the balance between multinationals and civil society on the one hand is increasingly lost. In my introduction I mentioned a few competing examples and unfortunately the list is getting longer every day. The Minister shares our concerns on this point, as witnessed by the following quote from the Policy Framework for Strengthening the Social Centre Field of June last year: "Worldwide, the space for civil society is increasingly under pressure. In more than 100 countries, freedoms of association, assembly and expression are severely restricted, for example through bureaucratic restrictions or through open violence." The PvdA Group has always seen CETA, a treaty with a progressive country like Canada, as an excellent opportunity to set a world-wide standard. A blueprint for how we want to trade with Canada, but undoubtedly with many other countries in the future. And above all how we want to do it honestly, with an eye for people and the environment. But the privileges that the present investment protection is now threatening to give to multinationals are even more striking than they already are with human rights and the environment. Does the Minister also see this and should we not, for the sake of this healthy balance, anchor human rights and the environment much more firmly? A few important steps have been taken from ISDS to ICS; we have just had a lot of exchanges. But that work wasn't finished yet. In early 2018, the Minister wrote hopeful words about European support for sustainability agreements in trade agreements and the commitment to a multilateral court. How wonderful it would be if this hopeful basis had been followed up, so that not only a multinational would be sure of a separate course of justice if he did not trust national justice, but also had access to it by a trade union or a human rights activist. If not only a company can complain when country X builds a motorway over its expensive factory site, but also a trade union can file a complaint if a state threatens to introduce anti-trade union measures. For example, look at Bangladesh, where Dutch textile companies are also dependent on a functioning civil society. I therefore prefer to see ICS, the Investment Court System, as an Interest Court System, a system that also monitors the interests of people and the environment. That is not a 'nice to have', not a good thing for it, but a fair balance between the interests of companies and the interests of people and the environment. This balance is a bitter necessity if we want to keep the world viable and achieve our sustainable development, especially in trade agreements. In what is now the case, agreements on, for example, union freedom are secured only by reasonably toothless dispute committees and a trade union or other social organisation can only give an opinion as a friend of the court, as an amicus curiae, as it is officially called, in a process initiated by a company. As far as my group is concerned, that is inadequate and unfair. Both my predecessor and I have made many proposals to improve the position of trade unions and other civil society organisations. This was possible for us within ICS and CETA, but also through the multilateral court that sounded promising in 2016. In this light, I am also thinking of our plea to make compliance with the OECD Responsible Business Guidelines conditional on companies wishing to appeal to that Investment Court. But even that is not what the Minister wanted, with a butter-soothing view as a result. Arbiters may consider compliance with the OECD guidelines in their assessment, but they do not have to. So that's not what NGOs and unions are buying for. This cabinet once again opts for multinationals over people. After Unilever's app, we shouldn't be surprised. But it does sound sad. If we really want to put an end to the growing inequality in the world and ensure that human rights and environmental agreements are at least as heavily weighted as business interests, then we must act now. Then we must seize the opportunity to do better with both hands and not accept the status quo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u649	You're almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u650	I was almost done. May I finish my speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u651	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u652	Then I'd like to end with a quote that I'm sure the Minister will be familiar with. "All progress begins with an ideal. It always seems impossible, until it succeeds."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u653	Thank you. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u654	Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Hul spoke extensively about the civil society that is under pressure. Worldwide, that's right. But I have not heard Mrs Van Den Hul about the real pressure that we must now worry about, namely the increasing power of Russia and China and the trade wars that Trump is sparking. Europe and Canada are now about to conclude a progressive trade agreement with each other in which for the first time we have incorporated sustainability, the environment, nature, workers' rights and gender into a trade agreement. So a unique opportunity to show with two progressive blocks in the world that we can work together and show the willingness to impose new standards on countries like China, America and all those African and Latin American countries you mentioned, where there are now abuses. You are making the mistake of not raising these standards together with Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u655	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u656	You are in favour of throwing the free trade agreement in the trash. My question is very simple. Lodewijk Asscher and Lilianne Ploumen have been on the picture several times in recent years with Trudeau smiling and expressing warm words about this trade agreement. They did not come to this debate tonight. I also respect that you have here this turn of the Labour Party...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u657	But we just had that discussion, Mr. Jetten!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u658	...is defending. My question is: Mr Asscher had time to tweet about Ajax today. Do you also have the balls to talk to the Canadian ambassador or to have your party leader tweet Trudeau to say: I am sorry, because the Labour Party did not get 99% of its will, we are here putting CETA in the Dutch Parliament and we are not going for that progressive trade agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u659	This is exactly the false contradiction I was just talking about in my speech. I'm just turning over what Mr. Jetten says. Mr Jetten says: if we do not get there with Canada, which country will? Yes, exactly! If we fail to raise that bar with Canada, what will we do when we start negotiating with other countries where the rule of law is much less robust? So what are we gonna do? Isn't now the best time not to give up on the status quo and make sure that bar is higher, so that we guarantee the rights of people and the environment at least as firmly as those of multinationals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u660	It's a repeat, though.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u661	Yes, the circle is indeed complete, because all the criticisms that Mrs Van den Hul now mentions were already known at the time when PvdA Minister Lilianne Ploumen signed CETA on behalf of the Netherlands. The Labour Party is joining tonight's camp of the SP, the PVV and Forum for Democracy, which no longer dare to conclude trade agreements with allies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u662	No, Mr President, we certainly dare to conclude trade agreements, but they must be trade agreements that contribute to a fairer world. We see that inequality in the world is increasing by the day and we refuse to accept it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u663	If Mr Jetten had had the balls to make this kind of point in my speech, we could talk about this, but to give such a sneak now is a bit cheap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u664	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Van den Hul. Before I give the floor to our colleague on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, I shall suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u665	We're moving on. I see Mr Jetten standing at the interrupting microphone. He wants to make an order proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u666	Mr. Chairman. We have just had discussions with each other on how we are going to bring this debate to a successful conclusion. The order of business of all my colleagues is that tonight we finish the first term of the Chamber and tomorrow at 10:00 a.m....
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u667	10:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u668	10:15 p.m., start responding to the ministers until 1 p.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u669	I'll see you at 1:00 tomorrow afternoon. Is everyone okay with that? That's the case. That's how we're gonna do it. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u670	Madam President, colleagues. Not more than 0.16% of all SMEs in the Netherlands export to Canada. According to the European Commission's own estimates, this whole CETA Convention will generate up to 2.1 billion additional economic growth for all Member States each year. That is about 0.01% of the total economy of these countries, a totally unmeasurable and negligible amount. And we give away all our standards for the agricultural sector, all animal welfare standards and all the quality standards for our products. We are also giving up our democratic control and abolishing a piece of our sovereignty, as we did at the time with the Association Treaty with Ukraine. After all, a supranational court will soon be able to judge whether we in the Netherlands have taken a decision that disproportionately affects the interests of the Canadians, and in their wake, through NAFTA, also those of Mexican and American companies. Madness, Madam President, and that is why I asked for a lot of time for my speech. This far-reaching CETA Treaty cannot simply pass through Parliament, not as long as the Democracy Forum is represented here. Madam President. In 2005, the Dutch people voted against the European Constitution by an overwhelming majority. 61.5% of voters said no to the formation of a political union in Europe. The result was ignored and the European Constitution came, albeit under a different name. On the basis of this new European Treaty, the European Commission has then taken on further powers, including to conclude far-reaching trade agreements. Let us be clear, including that term, 'trade treaty', is again misleading, like countless other terms in the famous Eurospeak, the concealing quasi-language of European technocrats. In practice, this new generation of trade agreements is not just about trade but about much more. Foreign investment, intellectual property, environmental protection, sustainability, military cooperation in some cases, health and education services, the social sector, animal welfare, working conditions, all of which we are increasingly losing control of. These are all matters on which democracy no longer has the last word. Things negotiated by bureaucrats in Brussels and to which we, here in the Netherlands, must obey. When the Forum for Democracy was still a think tank, those were times! We have already fought against the increasing transfer of sovereignty to the EU and the loss of national policy freedom and hence of democracy that is the direct consequence of that. One year after our founding, we successfully forced a referendum, together with our partners, on the controversial association agreement between the European Union and Ukraine. Once again, a huge majority of the Dutch population opposed the further transfer of power to the supranational state in Brussels, and once again the result was ignored. The treaty came anyway. At that time we realized that we had to go into politics ourselves in order to force real change. If even the results of referendums are shamelessly and structurally ignored twice, the whole thing must be broken from the inside. That's how I'm standing here in the Lower House as a politician. Once again, there is a document which transfers sovereignty. Again, it has an apparently innocent name. Once again, this is a so-called trade agreement. And once again, it has far-reaching consequences for our country, our economy, our prosperity and our democracy if it is adopted. The danger of CETA lies precisely in those far-reaching consequences, which are so profound that the effects for the Netherlands are not even accurate at the moment. Under the Treaty, many committees will be set up, which will then have to develop the Convention after it has been adopted. These committees are given the power to take binding decisions, which directly pass through our national legal order. This approach is contrary to the primacy enshrined in the Constitution of our Parliament as legislator. Now that the Treaty on that point, which is an essential point, is fundamentally different from and contrary to our Constitution, it should only be possible, as Mrs Van Weerdenburg quite rightly states in her amendment, to adopt a two-thirds majority. It's bizarre, it's shocking, it's really incredible that the cartel parties want to adopt this treaty by a simple majority, while it has constitutional implications. It has implications that change our functioning as a parliament sustainably. But to make it a little more accessible: at least you must recognize that this treaty creates powers, judicial powers, but also in itself is a living instrument that undermines our role as a parliament and thus has a constitutional implication. It is bizarre that the coalition parties are working on this golden principle of democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u671	I'm not a lawyer, but I've had a lot of catching up on ICS and the difference with ISDS over the past few months. Then I come back to what I said to Mr Baudet earlier: The Netherlands has had 40 or 50 years of trade agreements with such a component as ISDS in them, and has never had any claims. I do not feel that we feel disturbed or pressured here in the house of democracy, with our Parliament, or that we decide strange things. Can Mr Baudet give a better indication of what he means by the disruption of the Netherlands, that we have nothing more to say and that other judges are going to take our decisions in this Chamber? Put it in perspective a little bit. That's the key word today: putting everything in perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u672	The nice thing is that these words, similar words at least, were also spoken when this Parliament, also in violation of the Constitution, adopted by a simple majority the European Convention on Human Rights. As I mentioned earlier, Drees was a fierce opponent, I think rightly. Then all kinds of supporters also said: "Yes, but the Netherlands is a very civilized country, isn't it? We're never gonna get popped on our fingers, are we? What do we have to fear from those judges in Strasbourg?" And now you see where that leads. Immigration policy and climate policy are simply imposed on us. The point of what I want to say is that it is therefore out of our hands when we sign this treaty. Then we can no longer decide for ourselves what the consequences are. Then it is in the hands of anonymous technocrats there in Brussels, or wherever they will be. Then we don't have that power anymore. As a parliament, we give away something we can never get back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u673	It remains a bit abstract, because the people sitting in Brussels are our parliamentarians. Even the members of the Forum for Democracy voted today, simply as elected representatives of the people. Very good. It is our ministers who we send to Brussels to take decisions. We are the ones who have to make another decision today. We can get the ECHR and everything, but what does Mr Baudet point out if he says that the Netherlands would be disrupted if we agreed to CETA today?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u674	It's about democracy, isn't it? Democracy is being disrupted, and by that I mean the role of this Parliament. It is structurally weakened in two respects, in a lasting way. Firstly, as I have just said, that is because this treaty creates committees that are going to develop the trade provisions again. So it is not a static document that we say yes or no to. It is a living instrument that is going to develop. We will no longer have the right to vote on it. That's one. Two. Indeed, there is a dispute settlement system in which 15 judges will decide that number can still be extended. We have no control over that. All I'm saying is, regardless of whether you're for it or against it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u675	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u676	Our Constitution simply stipulates that we must adopt such treaties by a two-thirds majority. That is what our Constitution requires us to do. You're ignoring that. You're just gonna lay that on your boot. In short, Mrs van Weerdenburg's amendment to demand a two-thirds majority for the adoption of this treaty is entirely justified. I really think it is a state-of-the-art shame that this is not recognised by the cartel parties. But first, back to those committees, which I mentioned. We are therefore signing a treaty on the basis of which committees can draw up new standards and new rules. That has been a little under-explored in the discussion. Once we sign this treaty, we will permanently lose control of the products on our markets, the conditions under which companies can operate. Let there be no misunderstanding, we have a great deal of appreciation for Canada as an ally. We are in favour of international trade. Traditionally, the Netherlands is of course also a trading country, and we prefer to trade with the whole world in a way that is as easy and cheap as possible for us. That's how we make our money. We are very much in favour of this. But precisely that free trade is undermined by this CETA Convention. As the EU has negotiated on behalf of 27 different countries, the outcome of the Convention is not optimal for any of these 27 countries. It is not possible to negotiate effectively if you are not keen on what you want to achieve and what interests you represent. This also shows the example of sovereign free countries in our environment, such as Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and recently the United Kingdom. They have no problem with concluding trade agreements because they can represent their own interests and not the weighted averages of France, Romania, Estonia, Greece, Portugal, Germany, Denmark; mention all these different EU countries. Just as it is impossible for the European Central Bank to set an interest rate that is in the interest of those different economies of the euro area, it is also impossible to create a single trade agreement that is in the interest of all those different countries in the European Union. One size fits no one. That is the big problem, the fundamental problem of a supranational, continental union like the EU. That is something that all those supporters of the EU are constantly overlooking with their macrophily. They're obsessed with the thought of size matters. But I have learned in my life, ladies and gentlemen, that small can also be very nice. In any case, the interests of the Netherlands, a relatively small country, are lost in this kind of mass negotiations. That is what it turns out to be with CETA. Even within the EU, the Netherlands is constantly being thwarted by the larger Member States. France, for example, has ensured that Dutch pulse fishing is threatened with destruction. The EU does not even manage to reconcile the same interests within its own borders. On the contrary, it is a battlefield of conflicting interests. Then what do we think we are doing with all these different countries with yet another continent state, Canada, which is linked via NAFTA to the United States and to Mexico, to come up with a single system? Before we dive further into CETA and explain these points on the basis of concrete examples in the Convention, it is necessary to criticise the broader context in which this Convention has been established and the mindset within which the established powers still welcome it. The CETA Convention, as I have already mentioned, is a form of supranationalism. It is fundamentally different from internationalism. It's not an international treaty. It's not a treaty between states. It is not a recognition of classical international law, but it is an undermining of classical international law. It is in fact a kind of return to the layered jurisdiction as we had in the time of the Middle Ages. It's some kind of medieval thing. It is a return to that layered structure in which there was no sovereignty, where there were no clear boundaries and no clear state power. We see this in other areas, of course, with a kind of new quasi-international aristocracy. Those are the anywheres, the people who travel everywhere, and then the somewheres, the new hearsays that the new post-national elites call the low-educated, the underbellyers, and are viewed with contempt. That is actually the context in which this is established. I think a lot of people still don't understand what's actually going on here. But there's an intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u677	Do I have to?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u678	Well, we don't have to, but luckily, we do have the right. I wonder which group Mr Baudet belongs to: the anywhere or the somewheres?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u679	I'm one of the places. I feel rooted. I'm defending the Netherlands. I'm defending the national state. I'm defending what we've built here for centuries. I defend the common traditions. I want these post-national elites to come back, to come back home, to realize that they have a responsibility to the Netherlands, that Rutte must also represent the Netherlands there in Brussels and not the global interests of the multinationals. It's a fundamentally different mindset.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u680	It's actually encouraging to hear. So the economic elite, who no longer feels bound by national borders at all, are we going to tackle, even if Mr Baudet is responsible? We're gonna tax it. That economic elite, who travels the world in private jets and goes to Ibiza and so on, should we also be tough on Mr Baudet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u681	I don't think it's so much socio-economic. I don't think you should solve the problem with, what the implication of your question is, very high taxes. I think the problem is spiritual in nature. These people live in a post-identitarian, post-national world. They think that we are only a fraction away from a unification of humanity, the end of history. That's their worldview, their mindset. How rich you are, that's actually not the point I'm trying to make. You can also have very rich people who are national, who think nationally, who believe in the nation state. You can also become rich within a national economy. I don't think that's the point. The point is, above all, that we are led by people, in all our Western countries and also in those, say, consultative bodies, such as Brussels, the UN, Davos, who no longer think they represent a vertical link, namely a nation, but a horizontal link. Everything has become horizontal. Boundaries disappear. That way of thinking. This goes with CETA. This CETA is a kind of monstrous alliance between multinationals on the one hand and post-national politicians on the other. It lacks the real economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u682	Proceed, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u683	Thank you. This treaty is therefore part of a broad process of political integration between different countries, whereby the control of democratic parliaments within their respective nation states is becoming weaker and more and more interconnected in what is then called international law, but that is actually supranational law. It is actually an undermining of classical international law. It is sold in the name of cooperation, but it is the opposite of cooperation. Where this supranational interconnection is no longer possible, states can no longer choose to take decisions together, to do certain things together, but are obliged to conform to a straitjacket. To understand what this CETA actually means in that and how it will undermine our democracy, I would like to say a few things about what is actually supranationalism. Because states never existed in a vacuum. That's not what anyone's saying either. No opponent of CETA wants, as has been said here a few times, to raise the dikes and retreat behind them and have nothing to do with the rest of the world. On the contrary, states have always made agreements, alliances, agreements, trade coordinated and so on. They always will. That's beautiful. That's very positive. This is all part of what I call internationalism. That is something fundamentally different from supranationalism. Although any interaction and any agreement between States creates a form of internationalism, supranationalism is the establishment of an organisation or a court which, through a form of majority decision-making or case-law, may amend agreed provisions, i.e. those Committees of CETA or b may order the implementation of those provisions or c may reinterpret those provisions. Those are the dispute settlement systems. As a result, once that treaty has been adopted, as is now the case with CETA, the Member States will be bound by policies that have not been formally adopted by their legislative powers and that can therefore very well go against national preferences or even against matters on which decisions have been taken. Democracys are undermined by this. Populations are being silenced. The opposite is very clear on the basis of two concrete examples: NATO on the one hand. Article 5 states that Member States undertake to assist each other when one of those Member States invokes this clause. The way they come to the rescue is nowhere specified. There's no way to force them to help each other. And there's no way to judge whether or not they've done that right. NATO is therefore nothing but an ordinary defence alliance, as we have had dozens in world history. It cannot force anything, it is not a supranational body, it is a purely international body. Another example: this is also the way that CETA could have gone. It is the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. It acts as an important means of achieving harmonisation of rules on multinationals and international trade, but as an organisation, the OECD cannot enforce anything. The rules that are laid down, even after extensive rounds of negotiations, allow Members simply to withdraw if they do not see their interests adequately represented. So that is the way we could have gone with Canada: free trade while maintaining sovereignty. They didn't choose that. They chose supranationalism, not internationalism. This is, to close this point, best defined by Jean Monnet, one of the evil genius behind this grand conspiracy to overthrow Western democracies, the European Union. He said: it is a question of denying sovereignty in a limited but decisive field. That is exactly what is going to happen to CETA. In my view, there are two arguments in favour of this. That is in line with Mr Alkaya's interruption which I have just answered. The first argument, or rather quasi-argument, is that decisions taken at supranational level are taken in the name of universal values or result from a strict economic ratio, thus making them non-political or post-political. The idea is that there is such a thing as things that are in everyone's best interest. Win-win situations without losers, positive for all involved. Those who claim this often add that things that do require a political choice remain absolutely within the competence of the Member States. An example of this is the European Court of Human Rights, mentioned a few times today, which claims to take only universal, non-political positions, which any civilized country or any civilized person would agree with. But now that numerous judgments of the Court go against the views of not only minorities but even majorities in many Member States, it is already clear that the Court cannot live up to these universal pretensions. We also see the idea of the supposed universality of decisions in the policy surrounding the euro, another supranational institution. Within the euro area, interest rates would be set along non-political lines, with the ECB's policy not taking over political decision-making. This has, of course, turned out to be a joke in the years that followed the financial crisis after 2008. There is no single interest rate to be fixed for a monetary union that is politically neutral, which is in everyone's interest. You always make a choice. But it is generally accepted by those defending supranational developments that decisions previously entrusted to political entities at national level could now be taken by applying the universal laws of either ethics or the economy. Therefore, many economic or moral decisions would no longer be political, or post-political. That is a deep idea that these people have, and I can see from the bewildered faces of my fellow officers that this is probably true, that I have named something that lives in their heads. As John Laughland puts it: for all things, the democratic rule of law is threatened by the economics of the country, which is a fine word, or apolitical assumptions underlying the construction of Europe. It is generally accepted in Europe, and not only at Brussels level, that politics is simply the administration of the economy and that it is sufficient to do this well, even if it does not include democracy. For the holders of such views, sovereignty and the political business are but messy and illogical matters. Much better seems to organize the world rationally, to overcome the divisions and the quarrels and to introduce political-economic systems that encourage harmony rather than conflict. The language of the economy has replaced that of politics, as Larry Siedentop complains in his book Democracy in Europe. This is as clear in the EU itself as in the specific discussions on CETA that we are having today and on other days. The question that supranationalists constantly avoid by presenting regulations, proposals and treaty texts as universal is where the political authority, political legitimacy, for those arrangements or treaty texts comes from. Because what transcends politics, because of its universal or purely economic character, does not require political legitimacy. That's the reasoning. But that is a mistake, and I will support it in the rest of my story on the basis of concrete examples, because CETA is not a superpolitic or post-politician issue. It's not in everyone's best interest. It is an expression of a specific political and economic choice. It is a trade-off, a choice of global interests and against national interests. It is a choice for multinationals and against SMEs. The second argument that is constantly used to support supranational developments such as CETA I think that also very broad living here in this house is the deception that, although the political implications of these supranational developments may be recognised, the loss of sovereignty and thus of political independence in one or more areas would be offset by economic growth or other irrefutable benefits. This is most evident in the defence of the existence of the World Trade Organisation. It is said to be in the interests of all its members, although in certain cases it may well be against the interests of certain Members. The same argument is, of course, expressed in discussions on the EU, the euro and the common market, which, as advocates of the current supranational EU constantly stress, would be in everyone's favour, while the possibility that this may be to the detriment of some Member States has not yet been taken into account. I will show you that this is unsustainable in the rest of my speech, because all these elements are actually addressed in the treaty we are talking about: CETA. It took the EU seven years to reach an agreement with Canada. This shows how viscous the negotiations are within the EU and between the EU and other states. That is also logical, because, as I said earlier, how on earth do you defend the interests of Romania, Bulgaria, Estonia, Portugal, Ireland, Denmark, Greece and the Netherlands, with all these different economies? One country wants protectionism in this area and the other wants the export of a particular product. That's not possible, so there's actually been a total stalemate all these years. This could only be disguised by the fact that the negotiations were conducted in the deepest secrecy. While the lobbyists of large multinationals were closely involved in the negotiations, the national parliaments had no idea what was being done in those Brussels back rooms. It was only after parts of the Treaty were leaked via WikiLeaks and later via a German television channel that the European Commission released a first draft text. A few months after the final text was subsequently published, a large part of the Convention came into force for the time being. Even before the national parliaments had had a good debate on it, it was introduced. Never mind they already agreed. Madam President. It is a well-known trick on the part of the European Union: by allowing treaties to enter into force for the time being before they have been approved by the national parliaments, it is becoming more radical to vote against and the pressure on countries increases. A filthy and anti-democratic method, to push through bad treaties anyway. Was it not the same with the association agreement with Ukraine? The treaty that is now in place, which is already there, is devastating for the Netherlands. Our agricultural sector must again take heavy hits. Our SMEs have checked and our sovereignty is being further squandered. Take, for example, Article 2.11 of the Convention. Under this provision, no restrictions should in principle be imposed on any goods from Canada that enter our market. The consequences of this are incalculable. Because what do we do if we do not want certain products on our market or do not want to have them on our market? Or if we decide on the basis of moving insight that we no longer want them on our market, because they do not meet our standards? We'll have no control over that at all. We're giving away something now that we can never get back. We are completely at the mercy of the conditions that officials in Brussels invent or get whispered to by lobbyists of multinationals. Article 20.27 shows that the pharmaceutical industry has also sent a strong lobby to Brussels. Canada is forced by the treaty to renew patents on medicines. This ensures that competing manufacturers are not allowed to place similar medicines on the market, leaving their medicines unnecessarily expensive. The pharmaceutical industry is making progress, and ordinary citizens are finding it increasingly difficult to pay for their health insurance. Another example: Article 3.3 obliges the parties to take into account "general interest considerations" in prescribed cases. However, it does not specify what is to be understood by that general interest. It is therefore a matter of waiting for a conflict to arise when judges are asked to fill in this vague term. Process clubs like Urgenda will rub their hands in advance. And I have another hunch where the Postcode Lottery is going to bring its new subsidies this time. In accordance with Article 4.4, the parties must then as far as possible reconcile their technical requirements. This is still relatively easy to implement and implement for multinationals. They have dozens, hundreds of people working in compliance departments. However, SMEs face suffocating administrative burdens and are forced to incur enormous costs in order to comply with all these requirements. Also the small entrepreneur on the corner of the street, who is not at all engaged in importing or exporting to the other side of the ocean. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are already experiencing enormous difficulties. CETA makes it even harder for them to fight against huge multinationals. Mr. Chairman. This is just a small selection of the almost 1,000 articles of the Treaty text. This goes on for over 150 pages. I sincerely doubt whether the Minister has read the treaty at all before she agreed to it. Because the hypocrisy is so enormous. On the one hand, we oblige our farmers to comply with the highest standards. They are forced to make huge investments in sustainable stables and special food. They're dealing with phosphate rights. Recently they also had to deal with absurd nitrogen rules. This makes the products they supply a lot more expensive. On the other hand, farmers in Canada do not yet have to deal with a fraction of the rules that our farmers have to comply with. Canadian meat is not or hardly controlled for the use of antibiotics and growth hormones. It's washed with chlorine. The food does not meet other standards. And so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u684	I was just talking about the word "hypocrisy." For some time now, we have been hearing an argument as to why the Forum for Democracy in the House of Representatives is likely to vote against the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, but today the Forum for Democracy in the European Parliament voted in favour of the Free Trade Agreement with Vietnam. That's about a similar treaty, with a country with lower standards than Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u685	I heard Mr Jetten say just now. As a courtesy, I did not go into that at the time, but that was an administrative error in the way in which that vote was reflected. If you now check the vote of the European Parliament, we have voted against it. That's also just corrected, so I thought I'd let that go. But since you bring it up again, that is the explanation for this misinformation that you have apparently received.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u686	Thanks for clearing that up. I have only understood from many Members of the European Parliament that they have indeed seen the Members of the Forum for Democracy vote in favour, so I think that is fixed after it has been discussed here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u687	We were talking about the hypocrisy of this treaty. We were talking about the hypocrisy of this government imposing the most absurd standards on our farmers, our food producers, and then opening our borders wide open, not only for Ukraine products, we have already talked about those batteries and those puffy chickens, and we call it all puffy chickens, but also for products from Canada. Everything we do not want, we bring in through this kind of treaties. The same applies to animal welfare. For that there are hardly any rules across the ocean. Canadian farmers use pesticides that are banned in the EU. For example, the agricultural products in Canada can remain very cheap and unfortunately our farmers will be fully competitive. It is incomprehensible that VVD and CDA want this on their consciences. Then we haven't even talked about NAFTA, the free trade agreement that Canada is in and which links Canada to America and Mexico. As a result, Mexican products can also enter the European market via an indirect route without us having anything to say about it. The parties seem to completely ignore the idea that different rules in different markets do not cause problems, but that these problems arise if you combine these markets carelessly. The unequal playing field that exists because of these different rules can be compensated, with quotas, with import tariffs and with other things, with rules that you want to impose on products on your market. But if you make all these instruments impossible, you will see that your own producers, who have to meet higher standards, will be competing away. Our farmers will suffer as if they have not yet had enough to live up to. The same is happening in the field of food safety. We've agreed high standards. We must guarantee that our food is of high quality and now again from Canada on our markets. The Minister is going to say, of course, that she has said this before, recently in an interview and elsewhere, that products from Canada must also meet our standards. But the reality is that she has absolutely nothing to say about it after we have signed this treaty. It's not in our hands anymore. We don't have that control anymore. We are now giving away something that may or may not seem convincing on paper, but it is a living instrument. It's going to have its own life. This treaty is going to be developed. This treaty is becoming more and more extensive. We simply no longer have any control over the standards that we will have to maintain. We're losing control. This means the end of our national control, of our Parliament's control, of products on our markets. How did we get here? How is it that the European Union, once seen as a facilitator of relations between countries within our continent, is now imposing this political pressure on us? The trick lies in the common market itself. Achieving a level playing field, the goal set by the EU, can be used to explain each subject within its own competence. Analogous to such a vague and abstract concept as "fundamental human rights protection," which can also expand endlessly, as the history of the European Court of Human Rights shows, the desire to create a level playing field is potentially limitless. CETA should also be considered in this context. Like achieving full equality of opportunity, which can mean, for example, the abolition of family, inheritance and property rights, or full non-discrimination, a level playing field is endless in its application. All subjects on which differences are possible can be covered. Protecting that common market has thus proved to be a pretext for the most far-reaching rules and harmonisations. The EU, in order to understand CETA, has issued tens of thousands of directives and regulations on issues such as safety regulations for cars, rules for bed and breakfasts, specifications for wine and cheese, social standards for workers, the maximum noise that lawnmowers are allowed to make, the prescribed type of warning regarding swimming in open water, etc. After the EU has made the colour of car headlights right throughout Europe, it is now considering making yellow safety jackets mandatory for cyclists everywhere. But it has not only been the politicians and bureaucrats in Brussels who, with that pretext of 'a level playing field', have more power centralized in their own institutions. It has been to a great extent through manipulation of the law that the EU has increased its grip on its Member States. That grip is so great that it now also has the monopoly to conclude treaties such as CETA. The expansion of the Court in Luxembourg began in the Van Gend and Loos judgment against the Dutch administration of taxes, from 1963. This stated that the European Community is a new legal framework of international law for which States have restricted their sovereign rights and that States must therefore apply the law of the communities as if it were national law. In the case of Costa versus ENEL in 1964, the Court ruled that the law of the Communities overrides any national law which conflicts with Community law. In the Simmenthal versus the Commission case of 1980, the Court of Justice reaffirmed this provision. Although under Italian law only the Italian Constitutional Court can declare a national rule inapplicable, the European Court ruled that each national court must apply Community law in full and, in accordance with that law, must be able to set aside any provision of national law which may come into conflict with it. According to the Court of Justice, a national court has "the duty to apply EU law in full, if necessary by refusing to consider any conflicting provision of national law applicable." That's unbelievable. It is a coup under the law that the EU has applied. It's really unbelievable to realize how that court expanded power. In the 1984 von Colson versus Nordrhein-Westfalen case, the Court also stated that the domestic court should interpret all national laws in the light of EU directives, even if the national law in question is not based on EU directives. The examples are endless. Each time one step further on the basis of actually very little transfer of competence. It is remarkable that, although the European Union once began as an attempt at a federal state, the hybrid institute is now beginning to look like a kind of centralist unitary state without statehood. In any case, it regulates trade and the economy at micro level, as CETA shows once again. The Court of Justice in Luxembourg should give us great concern about the arbitration mechanism of CETA...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is remarkable that the democratic rule of law on the continent where it was invented is being completely undermined as is currently happening in the current EU. In fact, this is hardly mentioned, let alone criticised, by the many who are engaged in the debate on the European Union. Although they often claim to be very critical of, for example, the legal expansion of the Court, you rarely or never hear anyone actually demanding that this change. In fact, if we consider the three spheres in which the EU operates, these are the common market, the single currency and acting as a single block on the world stage, then the EU is undoubtedly taking on the responsibilities of a sovereign state gradually and secretly. This is already clear from the fact that we are not allowed to conclude a trade agreement with Canada ourselves, but that the EU has now claimed that monopoly and is using it to conclude treaties such as CETA, that the EU is taking on more and more tasks of a state and that the EU will then allow those treaties to enter into force for the time being. Isn't it incredible when you think about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u688	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u689	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I couldn't sit down anyway. The 'claiming' that Mr Baudet just said is, of course, nonsense. We ourselves, as European Member States, have said together: we are creating a common market so that we can increase prosperity on this continent, so that we can negotiate as the largest and most powerful economic bloc on earth with America, the Russians, the Chinese and in this case the Canadians, so that we are stronger as European countries working together from a common market, and so that we can give our own entrepreneurs access to other markets and keep the prices of products as low as possible for our consumers. This agreement with Canada gives Dutch farmers access to the Canadian market without towering tariffs. Thanks to this free trade agreement with Canada, Dutch companies, engineering agencies, dredgers and infra-builders will have access to Canadian tenders. So this is good for Dutch entrepreneurs. And that would never have worked if we had negotiated separately with 27 countries with Canada. Now it's a block of 440 million people negotiating with Canada. If we had to do that with 16 million, we would never be able to bring such great benefits to our Dutch inhabitants and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u690	I believe that the last point is the key to Mr Jetten's conviction, namely that it is easier to negotiate as an EU than as a sovereign nation state. And that's just being lied to by the facts. That's what we see around us. Small countries such as the United Kingdom, for example, have a much easier position to reach a trade agreement with, for example, the United States than the EU, because they do not have the same interests within the EU. You should try to agree with a very large group about where you will go on holiday with each other. That's very difficult. If you're with a smaller group, that's how you set it up. And that is also the case with a trade agreement. It is much easier to make a deal as the Netherlands, with a very open economy and a certain kind of industrialization, agriculture and so on, than the very big block that the EU wants to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u691	This is, of course, ultimately about geopolitical relations: how are you strong and powerful towards other countries that also have a great economic power? You can't do that alone as the Netherlands. You can't just do that with 16 million people. Yes, we have a strong economy, but not as big an economy as when you work together as a European bloc. The sovereignty of the Netherlands, Mr Baudet, is not threatened by our cooperation in Brussels. The sovereignty of the Netherlands is threatened by countries such as Russia and China, and by Trump, who plays with trade wars. It is precisely by working together at European level that we can also protect our sovereignty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u692	I'm repeating myself: that's just not the case. That is contradicted by the facts. Countries such as Iceland, Norway, Switzerland and now the United Kingdom, which are free, independent, sovereign and democratic and which can set their own course, can trade much more easily with the rest of the world than countries in that protectionist bloc together with countries like Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece. All these countries want to defend, defend and protect their own protectionist sub-interests in such a total negotiation, and so as the Netherlands you can do your own thing much less easily. You can see that in every area. You can also see it with the euro. We are much less able to conduct our own monetary policy, because we are stuck with the weighted average of the policies of all those countries together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u693	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u694	I have just briefly outlined how the power of the EU has been pushed out, not only because the technocrats and bureaucrats in Brussels have been increasing power, or sometimes politicians have been increasing power, but precisely because the European Court of Justice, established in Luxembourg, has constantly stretched the power of the EU. This brings us to Chapter 8 of CETA, which deals with dispute settlement in EU-Canada relations. CETA, this convention, will explicitly allow companies to file claims against the Dutch government, if, according to these companies, government policies have a negative impact on the profits or expectations of investors. A new court will be set up to deal with such claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u695	This is gonna be a bit of a fact-free round now. The CETA Convention says that national and local authorities are allowed to make laws and regulations that are in the public interest in relation to nature, climate, working conditions and so on. We have talked about this many times this evening in the debate. As a company, you can go to the ICS, the investment dispute court, if a government unjustly expropriates, so if the government expropriates the interests and investments of an entrepreneur, which Mr Baudet also claims to stand up for. You can't go there as a company if you disagree with the policy choices a country makes. That is to each country individually.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u696	That's not true. It concerns Article 8.18 of the Treaty. It just says that it's all about loss or damage. So it's really much wider. As I will show in the rest of my speech, it is true that this kind of court of law could very easily extend something that originally seemed very limited. I would like to hear Mr Jetten's thoughts on this, but I would like, with permission, to finish the point about the expansion of the power of judges on the basis of relatively, apparently very limited jurisdiction. Because this has just happened before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u697	I will listen, but Mr Baudet will have to compare ICS not with the European Court but with ISDS dispute resolution that we have known for decades. Then you'll see that it's about investment disputes. That was too intransparent at first, but it becomes more transparent with CETA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u698	That's nice, because we have an example of that. We know this from the case law of the World Trade Organisation. I just wanted to say a few things about that, so it's like... Yeah, two people, one ghost, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u699	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u700	Thus, a new court is being set up by CETA. That's going to have to deal with those claims. Mr Jetten and I have a further dispute as to why these claims can be made. My firm conviction is that I think I can convince Mr Jetten of this on-going debate, and that it is really much wider than just expropriation. That's really not true. These are decisions which, for all kinds of reasons, cause damage to companies and are not rightly judged by those judges. And then we'll just have to wait and see what that is. Fifteen judges! That's the point. Fifteen judges, five of whom must have the nationality of an EU Member State, are therefore very likely not to have a Dutch national among them. Those foreign judges are about to judge whether our Dutch laws are too much in the way of big companies. Not only Canadian companies are given the opportunity to engage in business against the Dutch State. As we heard Mr Alkaya say earlier today, as many as 45,000 American companies now have significant branches in Canada. Through a backdoor, these American companies, such as McDonald's or Google, also get the opportunity to circumvent Dutch laws and rules and thus also Dutch democracy and the Dutch rule of law, mind you. They will no longer end up with Dutch judges, but with that kluppie of Canadian and EU judges. Undoubtedly, the Minister will act as if I am seeing ghosts, saying about the new court that it has a very limited task and will not deal with national policies that serve the public interest. But what if the court doesn't feel that way? It is obvious that, over the years, this new court is going to assume more and more power and become increasingly involved in all kinds of matters. Then we should not criticize it again, because I quote Mr R. Jetten 'then we should have made other laws'. That's why he believes there can never be dikastocracy. There are many examples that show that courts are increasing their power over time. I have already mentioned the European Court of Justice, but also look at the World Trade Organisation. That's the point about which the interruption was just about. It was once established as an arbitration court, where states could appeal about trade differences. But by allowing more and more parties to enter into disputes and by declaring more and more regulation applicable, it has become more and more important, I am talking about the Applate Body........................................................................................................................................................................................ I will go into that further because I think that few here have that clear on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u701	Indeed, you have to make good laws and regulations with each other. Fortunately, we have done so in this case. In the preamble to the Free Trade Agreement with Canada, I have the English text in front of me, and I will try to translate it into Dutch on the ground here, recognising that the parties, Canada and the various Member States of the European Union, have the right to regulate in their own territory everything that has to do with public safety, public health, security, the environment, public morality and even the promotion and defence of cultural diversity. Mr Baudet should be aware that we have already agreed in the Free Trade Agreement with Canada on the very first page that the countries signing this agreement are themselves concerned with public health, safety, nature, public morality and cultural diversity. So there is no need to be afraid that those independent judges in the dispute court will interfere in this. All they have to do is protect SMEs from arbitrary governments that expropriate property.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u702	Yes, this reminds me of that famous preamble to the far-reaching Marrakech immigration pact. It also said that it wasn't binding, but meanwhile the ink of the signature underneath it is still fresh. There are international lawyers already saying: yes, but it has of course become soft law, it says something that it has been signed; it is not binding in the direct sense, but... A second example is the Paris Agreement. That is also stated in the preamble. That's not binding. And what does our judge do? He says: yes, we signed it and that is Article 2 of the ECHR, the right to life. And the Treaty of Paris: one and one is two. And it's still being applied. That is why it is a pity that you do not see the point I have made about this dikastocracy. The problem is that none of what we put on paper has any value, because there are activist judges who think about it. They make something of that themselves that comes out of them. And yes, that is in the preamble, but in the meantime Article 8.18 also states what I have just read out that, on the basis of disproportionate losses, you can actually start a claim. Then it might be said: okay, you can do it as a state, but you have to pay compensation. Before you know it, you as the Netherlands are bound by all kinds of claims and damages, which a Dutch judge might not or might not have granted in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u703	Yes, but the treaty says that you can ask for compensation when there is expropriation and not when there is a new policy that makes a state because the public interest requires it. On expropriation, the taking away of the property of entrepreneurs, an agreement is made in this treaty, so that we can protect the SMEs from, among other things, the Netherlands. That is something Mr Baudet should address. It's not about government-making policies; it's about random governments expropriating companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u704	But that's not true. It is true that you can also file a claim based on expropriation, but it is not merely expropriation. I have already referred to Article 8.18 (1): an investor may submit an application to the court established under this Convention on the grounds that another party has failed to fulfil an obligation other than a Member State in respect of the extension, export, operation, management, maintenance of everything covered by that investment or when the investor claims to have suffered loss or damage. So it's much wider. Mr Jetten says it's about expropriation. It is indeed about expropriation, but it is also about other matters. Then what will happen next, I will now show you. It's either Mr. Jetten my...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u705	Thoughts read.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u706	... has already seen text. I will demonstrate this in the history of the World Trade Organisation's Apple Body. This has existed since 1995 and since then, something that was originally very small and innocent has stretched up into statements that relate to just about all the political questions that matter in a nation's life.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u707	I have a rather practical question. On the one hand, we have that dikastocracy. I am still thinking a little bit about whether I should agree with Mr Baudet; I do not know yet. On the other hand, we have the Investment Court System. Now I am just a simple entrepreneur; I have the choice between your discastocracy, where I have to sue for twenty years to get my right, and the Investment Court, where indeed those fifteen judges put. It may be all in principle correct what you say, but in a year's time for little money, I can be right when a government apert is unreasonable. Doesn't Mr Baudet think it's practically better to give that Investment Court System a chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u708	No, absolutely not. This also proves the history of the World Trade Organisation. The question is whether this can be done in a year's time. It is not at all a question of what is then considered unreasonable, because that is no longer what we decide. The point is that we in the Netherlands make Dutch rules on the basis of the Dutch Civil Code and that we have Dutch judges who we can correct with new legislation and so on. The point of discastocracy therefore concerns not only the persons of the judiciary in the Netherlands, but also, above all, the vague standards which, through Articles 93 and 94 of our Constitution, directly pass through the national legal order. It is therefore a question of extending vague standards from treaty texts which judges then go along with. I agree that a number of things are really not well arranged in the Netherlands at the moment, but you cannot solve one problem by creating another. We must work together to tackle this dikastocracy in the Netherlands. We should not think: we have a problem with the Dutch judges, then we are going to create a Canadian court.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u709	First of all, a claim has never been filed, so that problem doesn't play very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u710	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u711	If there were any expropriation, then from now on, if there were a rejection, I would have to rely on that dikasocracy, so that I would have to sue for twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u712	What makes you think you have to sue in the Netherlands for 20 years before you can get justice? I've done quite a bit of lawsuits in my life by now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u713	So do I, unfortunately. Next Friday I'll be back at the bar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u714	Oh, what happened now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u715	There's a lot going on. But I personally think that it is much better, much easier and much more practical for the average SME's, who are doing business abroad and find an unreasonable government against them, regardless of the fact that you may be right in theory that this whole dikastocracy exists in order to be right at such an Investment Court system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u716	I would rather stand before a Dutch judge than 15 people, some of whom are from EU countries, one from Romania, one from Hungary, one from France, one from Spain, one from Estonia, and five people from Canada. You have no idea what will happen to your claim.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u717	Mr. Chairman. One final comment. This not only works in the Netherlands, this also works in Canada and it is also a blueprint for all subsequent treaties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u718	Then you'll have... If you do this with China, you have five Chinese, five people from the EU, five people from a third country, let's say Congo, Nigeria, Pakistan, Argentina and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u719	No, Mr. Chairman, it's just that in China, in Chinese, you have to be right with a Chinese judge, because you can go to the Investment Court System. But I think we should...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u720	Well, no, because I think most treaties opt for English law. Dutch law is also very popular. That is considered appropriate. So this is a fictional problem that really isn't big at all. What you could get in return is very limited, but what you're giving up is very big, because you're losing the total control of making rules as a democratic parliament itself. In the short term, this may seem attractive to you in hypothetical cases at the moment, not with Canada, but in the future with very other countries. But that's hypothetical. That doesn't play with Canada at all, and you're losing all control of your national legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u721	Good. Furthermore, I am very curious...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u722	I'll leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u723	Good luck with the judge on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u724	I'm very curious about those lawsuits you're in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u725	1995, we had stayed in 1995.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u726	What are you all doing outside of Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u727	The establishment of the World Trade Organisation. Sorry, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u728	Yes. I'm still working on the lawsuits that were just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u729	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u730	Yeah, that's what I was curious about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u731	It goes back and forth sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u732	Yeah, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u733	In 1995, the World Trade Organisation was established as a successor to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, among others. A crucial difference between GATT and the WTO was the creation of the Apellate Body, a court that is very similar to what CETA is now creating. So all that is said here is that it is speculative and that we have defined it well and so it has been said before. In the period between 1995 and now we have experienced this, over the past 25 years. Let me briefly outline what happened there, because I think very few people know that. I think it's very instructive to realize what we're turning ourselves into when we do this. The Apellate Body had the right to apply general principles of international law. Already in the very first case brought before the Apellate Body, that was the case of the United States against the oil company Standard Oil, the Apellate Body ruled that the Vienna Convention was governed by those general principles of international law. The interesting thing is that the United States has never ratified the Vienna Treaty. So, in the very first ruling of the World Trade Organisation Court, the United States was confronted with a treaty that they themselves had never ratified. The Apellate Body did that because it interpreted that treaty as "a rule of international customary law." That is, by the way, a term of Hans Kelsen and it is very controversial whether or not that is an international custom law. The World Trade Organisation's Applette Body said it applies. As a result, it could say in the following statement: yes, but there is precedent. This is also part of international customary law, with which there is an expansion of justice. That was the first necessary bump, at the very first ruling already made by the World Trade Organisation's Apple Body. The second ruling is the famous case about turtle excluder devices. The United States had certain restrictions on allowing caught shrimp on the United States market. They had to be caught with nets that sent out a signal, so turtles wouldn't fly in it. Malaysia and a number of countries with small fishing boats did not have the money to buy those expensive nets. They brought a case in which they said: it is a false exclusion of shrimp from Malaysia from the American market. It's not at all about the well-being of those shrimps or turtles, they said, it's basically just a false competition barrier. This has become a very complicated matter, but the conclusion reached by the World Trade Organisation's Apple Body in that second case was that although the United States was allowed to refuse shrimps that had not been caught with special nets on their markets, they had to constantly make international efforts to come up with a global convention setting global standards on what kind of nets should be used to catch shrimp. That's interesting. The World Trade Organisation therefore provides that it may impose an obligation on countries to negotiate international conventions, and also that, if they are concluded, they may apparently have a global effect, just as the Vienna Convention, because there is such a thing as customary international law. That means that the World Trade Organisation's Applete Body can also declare the decrees of the International Labour Organization to be generally applicable. That's what's going to happen, follow my story, like human rights challenges, children's rights, non-discrimination treaties, the Marrakech immigration pact, you name it all. Once you have recognized these two things, namely 1. precedent and 2. international customary law, which the World Trade Organisation's Apple Body immediately made in the first two statements, the barrier is the fence. That's what happened. It was said here: no case has ever been brought against the Netherlands. That's not true at all. It's bullshit! The World Trade Organisation decided in 2007 that the European Union should "not in this way" "remove genetically modified organisms from the European markets" as it was at the time. The issue was that " none of the security measures in question was based on a reliable risk analysis'. That's very interesting. So that World Trade Organisation is originally meant to make a little bit of a deal. It was also stated everywhere in preambles, Mr Jetten, that countries could continue to make their own conditions and so on. But within a few years, that court is going to stretch power so that it can decide whether or not to refuse genetically modified products on your market. Another example is the gambling case. This is also a well-known case of the World Trade Organisation. The question was whether the United States could enforce legislation against gambling on the Internet on the grounds that it was a protection of public morality. Sonia Sotomayor is now a Supreme Court judge in the United States but she was at that time professor at the University of New York... stated: "Despite the need to limit the scope of the exception clause on the basis of public morality, the gambling case went too far in my view. The decision implies, at least implicitly, that states that rely on the defence of public morality are expected to submit evidence of such measures by other states. Extended to the extreme, the gambling doctrine can be read as implying that states cannot unilaterally define their own public morality." And once you think about it, that is also a perfectly logical consequence of the ambition to achieve a level playing field in relation to trade. In this way you can also ask yourself about national legislation which restricts the admission of foreign workers. Isn't that, in theory, also a restriction of free trade? During the negotiations on new agreements in 2005, the Doha Rounds, it was in any case already discussed in detail whether Western countries should not extend visa opportunities for temporary workers under the World Trade Organisation agreements. How did immigration suddenly arrive at the World Trade Organisation, a bewildered commentator wondered. He continued: "The hacking of visas is yet another example of the insidious expansion of the WTO's role. World trade rules are no longer exclusively aimed at simply abolishing customs duties on cross-border trade..."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u734	Mr President, on a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u735	I'm almost at the end of the quote. "Any domestic legislation, including rules of public interest, may be challenged under WTO rules as an unfair trade injury." Do you want me to finish the point? Then I will have an extended time for Mr Jetten. Two more lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u736	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u737	As the pursuit of a level playing field has enabled the European Union, as I have also shown, to achieve, through legal statements, a virtually unlimited increase in power, so can the fight against 'unfair trade injuries' be used to test virtually all national regulations. The general principle gives the World Trade Organisation a free pass for unlimited expansion of power. And that's exactly what's going to happen to CETA!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u738	Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u739	Mr President, I actually wanted to make a point of order. In the very last sentence of Mr Baudet, the word CETA was now sitting, but in the last twenty minutes it was not about that. I respect it when MPs take the time to deal with a bill in detail, but then it has to be about that bill. An occasion at the World Trade Organisation... That's not the point tonight! It is about the free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, not about the fact that Mr Baudet wants to get rid of the European Convention on Human Rights, not about the fact that Mr Baudet wants to leave the European Union, not about the fact that Mr Baudet wants to get rid of all our international rules. This evening's debate concerns the Free Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union. I suggest we talk about that. If Mr Baudet wishes to discuss the WTO for once, I would like to participate on behalf of D66, but not on a night when it should be about Canada.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u740	I thought someone once defined the term "crazy" as "someone who keeps seeing the same pattern happen, but doesn't learn lessons from it." That is exactly what is going on with Mr Jetten. So he obviously doesn't understand the relevance of studying things from the past that are very similar to what we're doing right now. These two examples, which I mentioned, of the European Union on the one hand and of the World Trade Organisation on the other, show that, on the basis of something which seems to offer very harsh protection to the shallow eyes of the untrained lawyer, you can obtain a total legal within a very short period of time. This shows the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Human Rights, and the World Trade Organisation's Apple Body. You're out of control. The moment you give those foreign judges the pass to check our agreements on product standards against a vague standard, you simply lost your control as a parliament. Footie. Gone. The fact that you do not want to see this, that you are asking this question, is a sign of your political shortsightedness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u741	Mr Baudet is comparing apples and pears. He needs to compare ICS, the investment court proposal from CETA, with ISDS, the current system, where we do not have permanent judges appointed independently, where we do not have transparent court cases, where third parties cannot provide evidence. That's what we're doing now in ISDS. We are going to get ICS back for this, a much more transparent way of resolving disputes in this type of trade agreement. That's the equation you need to make. You should not throw the agreement from CETA into a pile with the European Court of Justice or the agreements we have made in the WTO.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u742	And why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u743	Because that's not what this is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u744	Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u745	The trade agreement with Canada deals with dispute resolution for companies which are expropriated by the government, which are improperly affected by their investments and which must be able to obtain their rights in one place. They are not always going to get that, but they have to say in one place: the government has treated me in a random way and that is bad for entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u746	That's all... It is not the case that we now have ISDS between Canadian companies and investors in the European Union. That's just not true at all. There's no such thing now. It's not like the equation between ISDS, what we have now, and ICS, what we're going to get. No, the equation is, can you try to get your rights from a national court? That is, Dutch law, English law if there is a choice of form for English law, Canadian law or whatever is laid down on the basis of international private agreements. That's the way it is now. Or are we going to transfer that to another club of judges that we no longer have any control over and which we can't change with laws? We are not talking about this anymore, because it has become a treaty. That's what the committees are gonna work out. Technocrats in Brussels are going to amend those provisions. Anonymous judges, non-national judges that we cannot adjust, are going to interpret that. That's the trade-off. You've lost all sovereignty. You've lost all grip. You shake no, but I'm just right. That's how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u747	Mr. Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u748	Mr President, I would like to support the point of order. It's 11:30 now. We'll have two more speakers after this. Tomorrow morning at 10:00 a.m., 10:15 a.m., we're moving on. So I would like to ask Mr Baudet if he can make an assessment of how long he is still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u749	Of course, that depends a little on the interruptions, but the text itself is, well, another ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u750	Okay, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u751	Is that a compliment, Madam President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u752	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u753	In short, similar to the expanding judiciary that has acted within the World Trade Organisation, which we have seen at the European Union and at the European Court of Human Rights, the new CETA Court will extend its task of settling investment disputes as soon as possible in order to be able to review virtually all our national laws and regulations. With this new court, our sovereignty will therefore be further restricted. The influence of our elected representatives is being further reduced. The power of unelected judges is being increased even further. Even less democracy, more dikastocracy. In addition, there is a justified fear of the so-called regulatory chill. This means that, when designing new policies, states will already take preventive account of possible claims in the future. The power of lobbyists is getting even bigger. The power of the shadow power behind the scenes gets even bigger when they know they have those anonymous judges on their side. If they know there's precedent. If they know that there have been statements that have forced states to pay high fines. In this way, the democratic decision-making process will be further undermined and we will be even more under the control of multinationals. Mr. Chairman. I come to my conclusions. I started my speech with the 2005 referendum. At that time, the Dutch people voted against a European constitution by an overwhelming majority. 61.5% of voters said no to the formation of a political union in Europe. The results were ignored. The European Constitution came into being; almost only the name was changed. Then came the Association Agreement with Ukraine. We also organised a referendum on this issue. Even then, the results were no. Now you have abolished the referendum. You silenced the citizens of the Netherlands to speak directly about this bizarre treaty. Probably not because you thought there was a majority in favour of it. But that's why I'm here now. Of course, the Minister will explain later that it is all very bad, that CETA is good for everyone, that it will not be such a rush and that the impact will be extremely limited in the short term. Who's gonna believe that? We still believe that? Nobody. When, in the debate on the treaty with Ukraine, the Ukrainian puff chicken was warned against it, too, that we saw ghosts. Meanwhile we are flooded by the puffy chicken and fear our poultry farmers for their existence. The same will be the case in the future with regard to the Canadian chlor cow, genetically modified salmon and hormone steak. Mr. Chairman. It is not for nothing that the support for CETA is crumbling at a rapid pace. From left to right, all opposition parties see that CETA is not in the interest of the Netherlands. Even within the coalition we see disagreement, now that the Christian Union has expressed great doubts. I have only one call for you all: worship before you begin and stop CETA! Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u754	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Mr Jetten has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u755	I have just had a moment to think about the previous debate I had with Mr Baudet. We've been having more debates lately. That's what makes a person think. Mr Baudet was just talking about historical patterns that we need to recognize. I actually thought that was a very good point from Mr Baudet. Historical patterns need to be recognized so you can learn from them. If we now recognise the historical pattern of attacking judges, questioning the international legal order and attacking scientists, isn't that the time to stand up and say: to here and no further?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u756	I do not understand exactly what Mr Jetten means, but I think it is very sensible that we should question everything in a democratic debate and a democratic society, and that we should also be able to take and defend all the points of view and, on the basis of arguments, to convince people of them or not. There's really an alienation trend going on. People do not feel represented by the established powers. There really is a democratic crisis and a lack of social cohesion. I'm trying to close that gap. I'm trying to get people back together in the Netherlands. What's my surprise? The party that particularly emphasizes inclusiveness constantly insists on excluding us as a partner in discussions. You even said in Nieuwsuur, when we were in a conversation, people say I might not have been here. What kind of attitude is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u757	People say that to me, but I was there to talk to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u758	They're not very tolerant, are they, those supporters of yours. Left-wing people are so intolerant. It's unbelievable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u759	Mr. Baudet, I'll take that debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u760	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u761	Even though people say to me, "Don't do it," I do. If there are historical patterns that repeat themselves, if people question the independence of our rule of law and want to trash the international legal order, I, as a democrat, stand up to engage in that debate with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u762	Yes, that is very good, because democracy does not tolerate international law. That's paradoxical, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u763	Mr Baudet has now had almost an hour. He burned CETA and ICS to the ground. There was nothing good about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u764	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u765	While his fellow party members voted in favour in the European Parliament this afternoon. The ECR Group, which is part of the Forum for Democracy, is itself a warm advocate for trade agreements with ICS. That's what they do for CETA. They do that for Vietnam. That is what they said this afternoon with a number of votes. My question to Mr Baudet is because he said they were going to correct the votes: did you intervene from here, from The Hague, to call back your colleagues and not to vote for Vietnam anymore? Both the Trade Treaty and the ICS Convention included were voted on. Did you intervene on that or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u766	No, I did call and see how that went, because I was surprised about that, too. There turned out to have been a mistake with the vote, as I said just now. It's been corrected by now. It is true that the ECR is the party with which we have a partnership, which is a majority in favour. We're an opponent. Those differences can exist.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u767	So a phone call from The Hague to Europe makes three mistakes and withdraws votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u768	No, it's the other way around. The order is the other way around. I don't know if anyone cares, but the order is the other way around. It was a mistake and I called because I thought, "What's Mr. Jetten saying?" I'm used to him saying crazy things, but this was crazy. So it turned out that there was a mistake in the vote and it was corrected. So that's now, if it's okay, just to be found online.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u769	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u770	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not have hoped that it would be my turn today, but it still worked. Mr. Chairman. The golden standard that CETA should have become is now overtaken by time. What should have been a modern trade agreement is a treaty that strengthens an unequal, unsustainable, old economy, which does not solve the greatest challenges of our time. Thus the letter from 22 organisations in which they call on us to vote against CETA. I heard some coalition parties stunt today. The VVD I heard say: live free trade, live intellectual property! However, this enhanced intellectual property in CETA is an obstacle to free trade. And D66 says we're going to fight side by side for the climate. But Trudeau is currently approving the largest mine for tar sand oil, has bought an old oil pipeline for as much as $4.5 billion of tax money, is going to patch it up and then expand the export of tar sand oil. There you go with your climate goals. Mr. Chairman. The cognitive dissonance between the Climate Agreement on the one hand and the plans to pump 173 billion barrels of oil to the last drop from the ground on the other there are no limits. The CDA, in long gone times the patron of the peasants, says: farmers are not pathetic. May I take the liberty of noting that Dutch farmers are pathetic when the CDA pours unfair competition on the farmers if CETA continues? The CDA is "searching for light for the future" - that is a quote - and ignores the 26 farmers' and civil society organisations who call on us and also the CDA to vote CETA away. So the CDA only stands up for the big cowboys in the Netherlands and Canada, not for the small family companies that are even more difficult to manage thanks to CETA. And the Christian Union, well, had a very clear election program. Mr. Chairman. CETA is portrayed by the Minister and Canada as a trade agreement, but it actually goes far beyond trade. It has far-reaching implications for privacy and data protection, the right of access to knowledge and other fundamental rights. CETA undermines the protection of personal data of EU citizens. Canada is a member of the Five Eyes, a group of countries with far-reaching eavesdropping practices. The Canadian Communications Security Establishment is allowed to eavesdrop on foreigners. The obligations relating to cross-border data flows shall be governed by CETA. This goes against the European civil rights system. A recent study by the IVIR and the University of Amsterdam commissioned by consumer organisations and other NGOs shows that the provisions on data protection in CETA are not strong enough to properly protect consumers' privacy. The minister's predecessor received a letter on this matter from the Consumers' Association. Can the Minister confirm this and explain the consequences for privacy, data exchange and civil rights if CETA enters into force definitively? Mr. Chairman. CETA is about the opposite of free trade. CETA is protectionism for multinationals, and conceived, negotiated and culminated in undemocratic committees and working groups, protecting their interests through specially created courts that develop their own law and jurisdiction. I agree with the questions that have already been asked. But it is also about deals made by large companies, multinationals, who would never manage them under normal legal and political conditions. The pharmaceutical industry and the entertainment industry will be given longer and stronger patent and copyright protection. Patents and copyright then become barriers to trade, as it creates a barrier to the free flow of information. The Harvard Law School also describes this situation. But it also leads to higher drug prices for ordinary people who need them very much. The food industry and pesticide industry will be given the opportunity to sideline governments that want stricter regulations on food safety and the use of pesticides, poison. Oil and gas companies that want to drill everywhere, for example under our precious Wadden Sea, UNESCO World Heritage Sites, with its unique tides and high natural values: these companies can now, via ICS, the new international court, ensure that no rules are put in place to prevent, for example, drilling under the Wadden Sea. These trade deals set up a new legal system that operates outside the existing legal system. Why did the Netherlands agree to this form of dispute resolution? Mr. Chairman. Farmers in the Netherlands are already being forced to scale up by bottom prices for their products. The mega-, mega-, megasthals: only the biggest cowboys survive this fight to great, bigger, greatest and the lowest prices. The smaller family farms are affected, because they are going bankrupt and the animals are certainly not getting any better. What happens to animal welfare and product prices now that our market is fully open to products from Canada, where there are no or few environmental requirements, no phosphate and netting rules, hardly any animal welfare requirements? What is higher in the superlative order than mega? The super-ultramegastal. Canada, where there are super-ultrame hosts. Former Secretary of State Bleker already said in Trouw in 2011 that although he did not want to hinder the growth of mega stables in the Netherlands, he mainly advised the farmers who really wanted to grow, to emigrate to Canada or the US. An analysis from 2019 by the reporters of Boerderij also shows that Canada is the walhalla for farmers who want to set up a super-ultramegastal and do not want to suffer from all kinds of compelling environmental and animal welfare regulations. Therefore, CETA opens up our market to much cheaper chlorine cow meat produced. Because in Canada beef can be washed with chlorine; you don't make it up! The chlorine cow may enter the EU by CETA. Hormone meat: same story. Much has already been said and asked, among other things by the Party for Animals. I agree with that. Animal welfare abuses in transport. Animals may be moved in Canada for 36 hours without water and food. Sows that have to stand among the steel rods their whole life. There are examples left. For those who think that this is nonsense, they must remember the association agreement with Ukraine, which animal welfare organisations immediately said: the battery eggs at our supermarket will soon be in the supermarket, they will be processed in our cookies and the puffy chicken giant MHP with its cheap puffy chicken will put Dutch farmers far behind. Thus, despite the clear no of the Dutch population during the Ukraine referendum. Ukrainian battery eggs are processed in our cookies and the production line of MHP was placed and expanded in Veenendaal. The puffed chickens are slaughtered in the Netherlands. They were raised in Ukraine under terrible conditions. They have only aged a few weeks and are happily carved, chopped up, packed and put with a Dutch flag on the packaging in the Dutch supermarkets at bottom prices. And the Dutch farmer checked it out. We learn from our mistakes too, so I ask the Minister. Or are parties, the CDA leading the way, going to ask for debates because they are completely surprised by the unequal playing field and unfair competition for Dutch farmers compared to the really big cowboys in Canada? You ain't seen nothing yet. Dutch farmers who do their utmost to comply with animal welfare and environmental rules, who want to green up, who we give a fair price for a fair product, farmers who want to use small-scale, organic farming, on circular agriculture: what does the Minister have to say to them? Apart from what she said in last Monday's NRC article, namely: "We don't want to become so circular that we start producing everything in our own village again as a commune." Has the Minister understood the policy of her colleague, the Minister of LNV? I really thought that the circular agriculture, the circular vision of this cabinet, was leading, just for the small farmer who is looking for a way out of the downward spiral, the ratrace to the bottom, in which there are many small family businesses. I really thought that the circular vision of this cabinet was now leading, after a lot of falling and getting up. What does the Minister say to these farmers? The Minister wrote in response to Parliamentary questions from the Animal Party two weeks ago that it is only very limited possible to impose animal welfare import requirements because a large number of animal welfare requirements are set at regional level in Canada. How can the Minister insist that only products that comply with all European product standards in the field of plant and animal health, food safety and labelling are allowed on the EU market? I would like a clear, comprehensive response to this point. Mr. Chairman. The LTO, which is apparently only there for the mega farmers in the Netherlands and which does not support the 26 farmers and civil society organisations, including the Dutch dairy farmers Trade Union and the Dutch Akkerbouw Trade Union, in their call to vote against CETA, also acknowledges in its factsheet itself that the agreements on animal welfare in CETA are unfortunately still butter soft. The Minister himself recognises this problem in terms of sustainability, and I quote from the aforementioned interview in NRC: "The treaty contains beautiful sustainability paragraphs, but what really happens to them? We will always have to show that the treaty does not lead to a race to the bottom, but to a race to the top." How can the Minister guarantee that? There are a lot of words, a lot of talk, but no hard demands in the 1,600-page treaty. To talk about higher standards, you don't need a trade treaty like CETA. Does the Minister agree with me? The Minister also said: "CETA does not affect the right of governments to make rules in the public interest. I see a lot of unrest among municipalities and local authorities about this, but it is a myth that the treaty violates that law. It just isn't." In that case, I would like to ask the Minister to respond to the concerns expressed by foodwatch about the weakening of EU food safety rules by CETA. Foodwatch shall derive this from documents of a meeting of the CETA Committee on Sanitary and Plant Health Measures, held on 27 and 28 March 2019 in Ottawa. According to foodwatch, the obsessive documents, some 170 pages, show that Canada has challenged many European regulations, including legislation on animals, plants and plant protection products, i.e. poison and the precautionary principle that is one of the pillars of European legislation. I ask the Minister: is it true that Canada is using the agreement to weaken European regulation? And doesn't that completely undermine the Minister's argument? Is it not true that the Netherlands is generally watching over the introduction of stricter regulations if Europe is not yet ready? Every time we ask for additional regulation, it is waiting for Europe. Think of all kinds of dangerous substances in our environment and agricultural poison. And now, suddenly, Canada has the right to take part in the decision on European legislation. What's that weird? What's the deal with that, exactly? I agree with the questions that have already been asked. This also applies to questions about the EU's consultative clubs and working groups, as it turns out. The structure of consultation is completely opaque and undemocratic. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to make this appeal to all my colleagues in the Chamber: vote for CETA. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u771	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u772	Mr. Chairman. Mr Baudet asked for speaking time at four o'clock. I'll try in four minutes, if I can. Mr. Chairman. After many years of talks between the European Union and Canada, it is finally there: the CETA trade agreement, a free trade agreement between Europe and Canada which has already entered into force for the time being without the consent of the Dutch Parliament and the Dutch citizens. It can't be more undemocratic. Why wasn't the people in the country asked? Why has the Treaty already entered into force without the assent of the Court? So what do we do now? For ten hours now, we have been debating something that has already entered into force. We read from the government that it is not possible to amend the texts of the treaty or its annexes. So the Chamber has nothing to say. The people in the country haven't been asked. The room just can't do anything right now. For this reason alone, CETA should, in our opinion, be in the trash. Mr. Chairman. We hear wonderful promises about CETA about the free market and the multinationals. According to the mouthpiece of the multinationals, VNO-NCW and for the time being also the VVD, the CDA and a bit of the Christian Union, the EU's prosperity would increase from EUR 3 billion to EUR 13 billion. It would generate €1.2 billion per year for the Netherlands. The trade agreement would put an end to unfair import duties. It would be wonderful for the trade. It would be great for employment. All wonderful success stories. But if the super rich and multinationals love something, then you really need to think about it again. The CETA Convention ensures that multinationals can seize power. Multinationals may, as a result of CETA, apply for a special arbitration tribunal. If multinationals do not see rules in the Netherlands, these are our democratic rules that we are all making here, so they can drag our country into a special court for multinationals. Even if multinationals see their profits fall through new laws, they can appeal to this court. Our rules and laws are thus judged against the interests of the big money. The multinationals are going to get it out of the hands of an elite court outside the citizen's hands. DENK wants the power to be with the people in the country, not with the multinationals. Mr. Chairman. In addition, CETA opens the way to products from Canada that meet lower standards. That's undesirable. For example, in Canada there are no central legal rules for animal welfare, only codes of conduct. How can it be guaranteed that there will be no Canadian products coming to the Netherlands that do not pass the animal welfare test? Furthermore, the use of hormones in Canada is permitted in the production of meat. It's about hormones that are banned here. How can it be guaranteed, Minister, that there will be no Canadian hormone meat in the supermarket? Finally, Mr President. CETA has come into force and entered into force undemocratically. CETA serves the interests of big business, the multinationals, the rich, the big money. CETA is threatening to undermine our product standards. DENK will therefore vote against CETA. That was three and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u773	Yes, very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u774	I have a question for Mr Öztürk before the closing of the day. He keeps his promises. Well, at least I'd predicted it a little bit. Lousy words: "CETA must go into the trash" and "demands must be made." But I have not heard any constructive proposals from Mr Öztürk. Mr Öztürk said in response to me: but we also took responsibility when we were in the Labour Party. I looked that up for you. When you were in the Labour Party, you were in favour of CETA. Yeah, I looked it up. You were in the Labour Party's group until 13 November 2014, and the Labour Party's views were already very strong in favour of CETA. I never really heard you say you were an opponent at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u775	I notice that Mr Voordewind has been hit pretty hard by the opposition and is still in pain. Late in the evening he tries to ease his pain by a few sought out by the employee...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u776	Answer the question, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u777	I thought I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u778	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u779	Okay, well, I hope Mr Voordewind will stick to that, too. On the late evening, he lets his associates figure something out. I left the PvdA for this kind of reason. I left the PvdA just because the PvdA was going to play at the JSF: first I did, later I didn't. That point. And what's the worst part? Look, Mr Voordewind, you can try to make your story here with a few questions, but you need to get back to your supporters right away, to those farmers, to those people who vote for you, to your members. You have to ask yourself, how do I deal with these people with my credibility? That question is more crucial than some of the cases you've been looking for afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u780	This is not strong, despite all the political frame. I really hope that Mr Öztürk has read the treaty. He has not, as I have predicted, made any constructive contribution in those four minutes; four minutes before a treaty of "what is it?" Oh, yeah. 1,000 pages. It is a mockery that Mr Öztürk is only here for four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u781	Hahahaha!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u782	Yes, you can start laughing hard, but you come up with absolutely no proposals...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u783	The pain is pretty big!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u784	...and the one who made the turn, are you, Mr. Öztürk, because you were then...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u785	... fanatical for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u786	Let's not get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u787	You were passionate about it at the time. You are now making beautiful decorations and you are just shouting on the sidelines. That's all you do. And explain that to your own supporters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u788	I've never said anything about CETA in my life, even when I was at the PvdA. So that's the kind of business you don't get around to. But I'll let you go to confession next Sunday, and maybe make a spin around your party, and then let your members know why you've been turned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u789	This brings us to the end of the... Where are you going, Mr. Weverling? Oh, you already want to shake my hand. But I'm not done yet. This was the first term of office, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-02-12-tweedekamer-7.u790	We'll continue tomorrow. I hope that you will sleep quietly and sufficiently tonight and be here tomorrow fresh and fruity again. I thank everyone, including those who have followed this debate in one way or another.
