ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u1	The next item is the debate on developments on the coronavirus. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and the Minister for Medical Care and Sport. Of course, I would also like to welcome the spokesmen and the people who are following this debate in one way or another. Speaking time is four minutes. The number of questions is ten, just like last time. It is up to you to see if in the first term you want to draw up all or part of the questions, but you have ten questions throughout the debate. I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're trying to control the virus. That goes after a rough start and exciting weeks now, for this moment, all right. Although I also realize every day that those numbers, models and diagrams actually amount to a lot of suffering and sadness for a lot of people. That is why we must remain cautious. We may have confidence, but at the same time we must be vigilant. If we are responsible and comply with the rules, then we can get back freedom and relaxation, so that we can do things that are nice and we can earn the bread that is desperately needed. Then our economy will also be less bad for it. Because figures on unemployment, bankruptcies and turnover losses also amount to a lot of suffering and sadness for a lot of people. The fact that there are now relaxations is nice, but there is no guarantee that there will be no relapse. Keeping the virus under control also means that you look very closely at what the virus is doing. If we are to lose control somewhere, we must take control back by making measures stricter again. That's the macabre dance with the virus, as I mentioned earlier: one step forward, one step back. In the first period the virus was unfortunately the leading dance partner, but fortunately we have taken control again. I'd like to keep it that way, but I don't expect it to be a straight line to the end of the virus from now on. Group immunity is only there when we have been vaccinated with a vaccine, as is our goal and as we always do with measles, for example. Until we do, the virus remains part of our lives and we must keep it under control by keeping ourselves responsible for the rules and enjoying the freedom as far as possible. Mr. Chairman. So keeping control is not eliminating the virus. I don't think it's realistic to think that from the peak that's behind us, you can only have a falling line. From now on, it will not constantly be fewer infections, fewer hospitalizations and less additional mortality. We can try, but then we all have to stay in lockdown and shut ourselves off from the rest of the world. That is clear in itself, but it destroys a lot. Mr. Chairman. The only advantage of it would be that it's easier to explain. You say, for example, that in the case of more than 50 infections per 100,000 inhabitants, we go back into lockdown. That's nice and neat. And overview is nice. To be honest, I sometimes need a simple story, but we shouldn't make the story any simpler than it is. There's no point. Unfortunately, reality is complex; this virus is complex. That is why I welcome the fact that the cabinet does not present a simple calculation formula, but shows which different factors are important. If you can measure and see all these factors, then it comes down to helmsman's art. There is no autopilot for this virus. Mr. Chairman. Within that complex reality there will be more space from June 1st, and hopefully in the months after that more space. I heard yesterday in the press conference the Minister of VWS also refer to regional differences in virus control and that this can also lead to regional differences in regulations and approaches. That would mean that local drivers would be more visible. Now everything goes to the cabinet through the mayors in the Security Council, but there will be more and more subjects that not only affect public order. It must also be clear how the decisions are being taken and who can be called upon to do so. As we regularly discuss here the balance between the desire for enforcement and practical feasibility for entrepreneurs, so it should be possible to do so locally. Municipal councils need to be able to see what kind of considerations are made locally and check them. Horeca entrepreneurs, other entrepreneurs, sports clubs and residents need to know who is responsible and where they can go with questions and objections. Finally, Mr President. I think it is a good thing that we are now in agreement that anyone who has the right to lay a spoon may also stick a fork. And it is also nice that terraces are not limited to 30 and that families do not have to keep a distance, although it is a pity that this is not the whole Pentecost weekend. Now it's up to all of us in the Netherlands to show together that we can take our responsibilities and carry them, and in that way continue to lead the dance with the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u3	I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Klaver and then Mr Azarkan. Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A new package of support has just been announced for companies by the cabinet, of no less than 13 billion. We saw that at the time of the first aid package a lot of people have lost their jobs. The cabinet now intends to say in the second aid package: companies, you can claim state aid, but if you want to get rid of your people, if you want to fire people, we understand that too. Don't you think that's a little antisocial?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u5	I think it's antisocial if we pretend there are companies that really want to get rid of their people. They don't want to. There are companies that have to make the hard choice to survive with or with fewer people, or to go head-down with all of them. Fortunately, we have rules for this in the Netherlands: we have the right to resign. That is not very simple, and it all remains true. The question is then: if companies are forced to continue with fewer people, but the people who can continue to work there can all continue to provide an income... Or, in addition to the arrangements and transition fees that exist, impose a financial penalty in the scheme itself, making it even more difficult for such a company to continue with the people with whom they can still go through and keep their heads above water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u6	Yes, but the scheme is called "employment retention scheme." So it's kind of weird that you then see that already in the first arrangement so many people have lost their jobs, and when you extend that arrangement you don't say to those companies: guys, we think this is important, we want to help you stay up; you can get support from the State, but we expect you to keep your people in service properly. Isn't that what the whole scheme is meant for, and not to open the door to put more people out on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u7	There's no entrepreneur who's gonna sit down and think, "Well, I'm gonna put some nice people out on the street." However, as an entrepreneur, you can come to the hardest of choices that, even with the aid scheme, your business will not be profitable; because of the one-and-a-half-metre society, because things have to be different, because you can reach your suppliers less in China, or because of all kinds of circumstances, even with state aid, are not profitable. And then you can sing it out a little longer, and then eventually you go head-down with all your employees. All those employees would be out of a job. Unless you make the hard choice that you can, fictitiously, keep 80% of the people in service when you restructure your business. That is very painful for the 20% who then lost his job; I do not take lightly about that. But in the end you have saved more jobs than when you say in the paper reality 'with regulations always keeping jobs', and then an entrepreneur has to say: I can't keep up with the scheme either, so I don't use the scheme, I have to apply for bankruptcy and all my employees are unemployed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u8	You are talking about your own interruptions, but next Thursday we have spent the whole day debating the economic aid package. I can't believe you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u9	I do realize that, Mr. Chairman. But when Mr Dijkhoff talks about companies that'restructure', of course, that is just a very expensive word for people to put out on the street. That's just what this is about. And the aim of the scheme is to maintain employment for the people who have made the profits of companies in recent years, who have allowed the economy to flourish in recent years. Then it is no more than decent that if we, the government, the taxpayer's money, are going to put so many billions in support packages for companies, asking for it to be so neat that you keep your people in service? And everyone understands that there are sectors where extra things are needed, where it can't go up to the length of days; everyone understands that. But first you're gonna go with those people to see what they want and what they can do, and how they can retrain. Not in the other order: first put the people on the street, and then say that you also have a game of education money reserved for them. That's just antisocial, isn't it? Besides, isn't that what this arrangement is meant for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u10	That scheme is not even there to support companies, but to support workers, and it accounts for a large proportion of labour costs, but not everything. If you say to a company, "Come here with your books, and we as state take everyone on state service," it's a different story. What you're saying to a company here is: it's hard, you've got blows to deal with, you might just have the much-needed measures to keep corona under control; we'll help you keep your people in service. That's what this arrangement is for. It's not like you're calling, cashing out the settlement, putting the money in your bank account and firing people. You only get the money for the people you employ. It's gonna stay that way. The only question is what happens when you say that I can keep a lot of people employed by this scheme, but this changes so much for my company that I can't keep running with all my employees, so I keep 80% of the people employed, for example, and the other 20% we have to painfully say goodbye. That is indeed a discharge; I am not making a big deal about it. The point is that you don't even give that company a fine, which may make it even harder for that company to keep that 80% in service. I think this is a search for the same goal: to use public money to save as many jobs as possible. But these are real jobs in practice, with the reality that an entrepreneur encounters. It's not just an accounting thing. If we say here that no job should be lost, that does not mean that it will not happen. Unfortunately, that's too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u11	We are going to talk about it in detail next week, but I too have a question about the support package. We see that a lot of SMEs, companies that have paid fair taxes in recent years, are struggling. Then it is very important that we support them. But we are also going to support these very large companies, for example those big eyeball farmers in the Netherlands, the opticians, who have been avoiding taxes in recent years. They also require government support. It's a gift to them, too. Would it not be much more honest, I would ask Mr Dijkhoff to say to these large companies: 'Okay, we are going to help you at this time. It is difficult, but when the crisis is over and you start making a lot of money again, you will have to repay it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u12	Right now, the spectacle shops are being brought in. I read something about that, too. If we give that support now, I think it makes more sense to look at how, although legally, tax has been evaded. I don't really care if they're big or small. Those are the labels that are fun here, but which in reality quickly become worthless. I think it makes sense to look at what has grown in ways over the past few years, with constructions and all kinds of switch across countries, to have an unfair competitive advantage over your competitor, an SME's. The cabinet was already working on that. I wouldn't do that any less. So that's fine with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u13	That is very good: a strengthened approach to tax avoidance. I think that's very good. However, it remains to be seen that in recent years these companies have actually paid far too little tax on the large profits they have often made. That went to the shareholders. That's what they've often pulled out of these companies. That's why they're so bad now. That's not because they've made so little profit in recent years. Would it not then be reasonable to ask these companies to simply repay the aid they receive? So we're not saying we're not gonna support them. All we're saying is you get it and you pay it back. I'm asking because we know that free money doesn't exist. So if we're gonna spend this, it's gonna have to be paid back sometime. If the big companies that get this now do not take the fall, it will end up with ordinary citizens. And we have to prevent that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u14	This part of the Acts, which Mr Klaver says "free money doesn't exist," I'm going to print out and hang up. That's right. We will need that awareness more often in the coming period. I think it is reasonable for a company that deserves in society to repay a fair share to that society. I also think it's reasonable to look later... The second aid package is very much aimed at SMEs and slightly larger, but the €20,000 cap is not going to help larger companies. So you have to have a more direct path for that. I think it is very logical that as a government you look at a balance between helping to get through and also ensuring that things come back for our taxpayers. How to shape that technically, we still have to talk about that, but I think the principle makes sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u15	Mr Azarkan, and then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u16	Mr Dijkhoff spoke about the strategy at the beginning. He was talking about maximum control. We've got it pretty well under control now. Can we hold on? Can Mr Dijkhoff state exactly what strategy has been followed in the last two months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u17	It'd be better if the cabinet indicated that. I've always argued for the following. If there's a major outbreak, there's only one thing to do. The virus did not enter the Netherlands slowly. It was carnival. I remember that very well. There's been a huge spread. So you'll have to deal with putting out the fire first. The enemy is invading, so first you have to try to get him under control and beat him out of the house. Then you get to your strategy. Then you have choices in strategies. You can say, "I actually want the virus out of the country. I don't want anyone in the Netherlands to have it anymore. Then we'll go back to the way it always was." That's not what I'm here for. I do not know whether it is possible at all, but then you must also close your contacts with other countries. Or you say, "Let it go," because then we'll get over it as soon as possible, and those who didn't survive, we'll regret it, and the rest of us will have had it, and we'll probably be immune, so we can get on with our lives. I'm not in favour of that either, because that leads to too much human suffering. The virus is here. Unfortunately, people will die from it and people will have to go through the hospital. But how do you keep it at a level that it is through care to act and it also allows not only the economy, but also life as we all want it to be? So it's about finding the balance between them. In my head, that's a constant look at what's happening and what's relaxing for impact on reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u18	The answer indicates what I have a bit of myself, namely that it's just not quite clear to me if you can't explain it in a few sentences. A number of countries consciously opt for elimination, such as New Zealand, South Korea and Taiwan. Germany opts for track and trace, control it as best it can and go through society as a whole. Sweden has a different approach. I wonder if Mr Dijkhoff has been able to find a line on how this cabinet is dealing with this and whether he could tell it in a few sentences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u19	What is happening here may be political, but something that is very complex, and so it takes a very long time to explain, is said: if it cannot be done in a few sentences, it is not clear. And I find that really, really disturbing. The theory of relativity is very complex and I can't explain it in a few sentences, but that doesn't mean that it's not clear if you understand what it's about. There are other things like that. This is just complicated. It's not to say that if too many people have it, we have to go back into lockdown, because if these people all have mild complaints, it has a different effect than when the same number gets infected in a nursing home and this immediately leads to deaths or ic-raptures. This is just one aspect of the whole complex. So of something that is complex, I find it annoying when it is said: oh, it is unclear. What you're going to get is a simplification, so that it sounds nice here but in reality it can't be sustained anymore. Germany started with the intention: per 100,000 inhabitants more than 50 infections, then we go into lockdown. Well, then it happened and then they said, "Yeah, but we don't have to get any stricter, do we? Then you have clarity at the front, but it turns out to be as complex at the back as it is at the usual.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u20	Thank you. Then Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u21	The cabinet proposes in the new support package to remove the threshold for dismissal. I am very concerned that this is going to lead to a lot of extra redundancies and that a lot of people are losing their jobs, while that scheme is meant to keep people in employment. Now the VVD says: but we also do not want companies to go bankrupt. That's right. I don't think anyone wants companies to go bankrupt. Could we not agree to leave that threshold in unless companies can show up and prove with the books that otherwise they will go bankrupt?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u22	I don't know if that's feasible. I think it would be better to ensure, in other ways than through that fine, that no improper use can be made of it. Companies will go bankrupt. Unfortunately, people will lose their jobs. The scheme should keep that to a minimum. But I don't think you'd have to pay the fine and then prove that otherwise you'd have gone bankrupt... How can you prove that you would have gone bankrupt if you didn't? You can make it plausible, but then there's another discussion about it. And who do you have to argue with? If you apply for dismissal for business reasons, the judge will assess whether that is real. If you don't get out of it and it's awarded, you'll have fees for that too. So I think we've taken care of that nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u23	We have arranged it neatly for normal situations, but we are now in an abnormal situation, because that is why we are going to help the companies again with 13 billion. And I'm in favour of that, because it's a bizarre crisis and we want people to keep their jobs. Now the cabinet proposes: take away the deal that means that you get that huge support, but that you have to pay extra back if you still fire people. The argument put forward by Mr Dijkhoff and the VVD was just: it has to be, otherwise companies will go bankrupt. I'm asking a pretty simple question. Then let us make the exception, but let us ensure that all these other companies keep people in service as much as possible. You say that seems complicated to you. Well, I don't believe I care if people keep their jobs. And that's what we need to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u24	But now Mr Asscher makes it a simplification again, which is badly related to the life and well-being of an entrepreneur. I think most workers also know that it is not so simple that we here decide whether they keep their jobs or not. Again, that support is only there for the employees you employ. So there's already a direct link. No one's gonna get support for pay that he doesn't pay anymore because he's had to say goodbye to someone. No one is going to say: I have an arrangement now, these are different times, so the right of dismissal is no longer valid. I think we're doing good right now. We come at the stage where we stop telling the whole country that everything is frozen, but we have a big problem that will have an economic impact. This is certainly going to bring about a long-term and perhaps even permanent change in our society. You have to have the space to grow there with each other. For one company it means very simply that it can now place a huge load of vacancies because it has never worked so well, but for many other companies it means that they have to think about how they will earn their living and whether they can do so with the same number and the same people. I think that we have done very well and do not need a fine on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u25	I think it's a bit of a trick to say, if you don't like a question or if you consider it difficult, that it's a simplification. It wasn't simplification. We have an arrangement where there is a lot of support going to companies that have to keep people in service. There is also a financial incentive, which the VVD always believes in. Now the cabinet is proposing to remove that incentive. You're defending that because otherwise companies will go bankrupt. Then it is not a simplification to ask: can't you make an exception? Because there is a very real danger. We saw in the last month that 40,000 people have become unemployed. We saw flex workers, callers and a lot of young people losing their jobs. What's the threat? This is likely to be greatly strengthened by the fact that companies are now going to carry out this reorganisation with aid. I'd still like to make an effort to solve it. That's not simplification, it's a proposal to do better, so that people keep their jobs and businesses don't go bankrupt. What if we increase aid in sectors where it is very difficult? There's already a lot of support, but you can increase it. For example, you can say to the catering industry: you can do so little here, we give extra support. If necessary, you'll go to 95% of the wage bill. Would it not then be fair to say to those companies that do not need it: we keep that incentive in place for keeping those people in service and for maintaining those jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u26	It is also a trick to blame someone else in the debate for using a trick. So I'm gonna use that trick back now. I think it's a simplification. I give a full explanation of the different scenarios in which companies sit and say that they have to prepare for another future, because otherwise they might go bankrupt. Mr Asscher then makes it clear that I am only talking about companies which otherwise go bankrupt and who then have to prove it. My story in the interruptions with Mrs Marijnissen was a bit more nuanced; it was not just binary about whether or not to go bankrupt. Take that catering entrepreneur as an example. Let's just say he employs 20 people. He can keep them in service, and for some of the wages he can get a refund. Then he can open his restaurant with terrace and has much less work and much less sales. So it's a pile of problems. Some of the staffing costs are taken over by this scheme - not 100% of the staff - and then he has to deal with less turnover and higher costs to prepare for the future, and he knows that it will take a very long time before he has any sensible work for all his employees. Then it's not weird that a conversation takes place there. If that leads to approved dismissal, too, that's not that simple. You don't have to say to him: you know what, I'll also give you a fine. Because then he comes into a vicious circle: he will have even less money and he will have to fire someone or go bankrupt. Because it has not been said that public support can do it. Staff, employing people is not free at once, even with that support. That entrepreneur will still have to make money to pay for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u27	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u28	It is said, however, that the political contradictions are back in the debate. We've just seen it. Simply put: do you choose multinationals or do you choose people? I admit immediately that is far too crude a simplification. But I have another one for the VVD: do you choose public health or do you choose the interests of agriculture? We have seen in recent weeks the Animal Party and the trade unions have warned that slaughterhouses can be a fireplace for corona. That fear is true. People are really wondering: why is the whole country flattened and not? Worse still, what in mink-farming the Netherlands has the world prime to have for the first time a corona outbreak in the livestock sector was considered to be a negligible risk, has happened. There's a human being infected by a mink. Especially in Brabant people are wondering...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u29	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u30	What does politics choose for? Are we going to put public health first, or is it going to be the Q-fever scenario again: no, we're just waiting, we're still researching, and it's going to be another big drama there? So what does the VVD choose? For public health or for the interests of that sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u31	Healthy food is of great benefit to public health. It's from our agriculture and horticulture. No, we don't eat mink, at least I don't. Those beautiful peppers are also from agriculture. So there again I see no contradiction between public health and agriculture. But that's the general point. The specific examples presented by Mrs Ouwehand are worrying to me. We'll get briefings on that and more information. Then we'll be able to assess exactly what to do. But I find this very worrying and I also understand the connections that people see between air quality and the environment where they live, and it is more affected by corona. I would like to know first whether that is a correlation and whether there is a causal link underneath it. But I do find it worrying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u32	That's a good start. I hope that we can count on the support of the VVD to really put that public health first and that we will not experience the concerns of people in Brabant, who are now simply seeing a repeat of the Q fever drama with that outbreak in a mink farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u33	That was a call. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u34	I am surprised that I do not hear from Mr Dijkhoff of the VVD, yet a liberal party, any resistance to that terrible concept of the new normal that would mean one and a half meters of society. I had expected and hoped that you would distance yourself from that. We now see from all kinds of research that the risk of infection outside is many times smaller than inside. We know the government's call that says so, and rightly so: if you are ill or have complaints, you stay home. So I think, especially for a liberal, it's out of proportion to restricting the freedom of people outside the territory once again, with a small chance of contagion by saying: 1.5 meters away. Can you tell me whether you share this with me or whether you say that freedom doesn't matter to me; as far as I'm concerned, that's the new normal thing, and we're gonna keep walking metres apart, sitting down, I know what we're doing until the vaccine arrives?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u35	There's nothing normal about me not giving my brothers and my mom a hug. That is not normal at all. I also want to get back to normal as soon as possible, that it's all possible. That 1.5 meters feels unnatural and there is no reason to do so, except for the insights that it can help prevent the spread. It's a virus that's been around since November, December, so then the investigation started into the specific characteristics and behaviors of this virus. Really, I would love it if the scientific consensus at one time is that we can protect ourselves in a different way than with the 1.5 meters. But as long as there isn't, we have to take this as a precaution. But normally I'll never find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u36	I am surprised that Mr Dijkhoff, in his term of office, has to make choices in four minutes; I do not understand that either. It is understandable to the inside; there is indeed consensus about this, because in, especially in small spaces, poorly ventilated, there is a high risk of contamination. We have seen this, from Limburg to Amsterdam, at choirs, in Kessel, at home and abroad. That's all crystal clear, but not outside. In my term I will mention some studies which show that the chance of getting infected outside, especially when people who are ill at home, is minimal, sometimes even negligible. Then a measure to keep outside 1.5 meters is disproportionate. So I was hoping to find you on my side to say, "Wherever it is needed, it's inside, or it can be inside, we're going to do that." But if it turns out that it doesn't contribute, then it's a horse drug, then it's disproportionate, and then we just don't have to do it. Then that new reality, that one-and-a-half-meter society, must be over. You don't want to live in a country where we have to live like this, when it's not necessary at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u37	I don't want to live in a country where we do cherrypicking in the investigations that are out there. You have to follow them with interest. Then I'm thinking, well, if this is going to be a pattern and if this is actually scientifically validated, it might provide perspective. But it's not like one such investigation should lead to a change of behavior right away. There's more than enough outside. Also on the terraces there is already more than allowed inside the restaurant. I think you should keep an eye on all those tests out there. You have said once before, I believe, in a different context: you should not use the Netherlands and the Dutch as an experiment in the vein of 'let's just walk arm in arm for three weeks and see what that does'. For science, that's a lot of insights, but I think that's too risky. Logic is that it's transmitted through stuff coming out of your nose or out of your mouth and that's on your hand. If you shake hands with someone else, they'll get it back. I also saw an investigation in which they had a buffet with one spoon, where everyone was infected in no time. I don't think this was because it was inside. It was because it was on that spoon and someone else grabbed it again. So I follow it all with interest, but I don't think it's hard enough to say right now: you know what, world viewers, we're going to go into the Netherlands and you'll see what the result is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u38	The studies based on one-and-a-half-metre society are mainly based on indoor situations. It's been tested in hospitals and elsewhere, not outdoors. That's one. Two is Mr Van Dissel's statement this morning, even in the briefing, that out of opportunity is indeed less.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u39	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u40	This is due to different circumstances: dilution, wavering and you name it. There are studies again, not just one decanoate from Canada, from Japan, from America and from China, all of which say that the chance of getting infected outside is many times smaller than inside. Some even say the odds are almost zero. Then it's out of proportion to forbid people from getting closer to each other. People who don't know each other don't run into each other; that's not how you usually deal with each other, whether it's about the terraces in the catering industry or just about people walking on the street. I particularly appeal to you because you are a liberal. I think you should think, like me, that a measure should be based on facts and that it should be necessary. I think it is necessary, for example, inside. In fact, I sometimes think we should go further inside than the cabinet. You heard me pleading for masks two weeks ago, including for the hairdressers, which the cabinet didn't want. But if something isn't necessary, like outside, then we shouldn't? It is a huge restriction on the freedom of people to have to keep a distance of 1.5 metres, which is based on nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u41	I agree: if you don't have to, you shouldn't. So the question is whether it is necessary or not, whether science is unambiguous about it and whether we are sufficiently advanced to ensure that it does not lead to a risk. Of course, inside there's more risk than outside, but that doesn't mean there's no risk outside. If I sit outside in a gallery in a situation where I feel my back neighbor's knees on my neck and he starts coughing, you say: he shouldn't have been there. No, if everyone who's infected stays inside, there's no danger outside. That's super simple, but this kind of thing only works through redundancy, by stacking locks. When the door's locked, you can't go in, but you still secure your windows. Then you also secure your stuff, so that they can be traced in case someone comes in and takes them away. So you're stacking measures together, because you can't rely on 100% compliance. Because some people don't follow the rules, but also because not everyone already knows it's contagious at a time just before they get complaints.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u42	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u43	Madam President. Fortunately, the Netherlands is going for part of the lock and that is good news. Finally we can visit family again, a day out and enjoy life a bit more. Indeed, we owe this to all those Dutch people who have had to give up in Corona time in recent months. But there's not just positive news. With all the measures taken, rightly or unjustly, many companies are still forced to close down, unemployment is huge and our economy is hitting a lot. The corona approach continues to control our lives and limit our freedom. Still, if you don't keep enough distance from each other, you get a fine and a criminal record; you can't just use public transport and a visit to the gym, for example, is still not in it. Mr. Chairman. We could have gotten our freedoms back a long time ago. If the cabinet had previously announced a short lockdown, with wide-ranging tests, we would have been much further in the fight against the virus by now. Citizens would have had their freedoms back a long time ago. Entrepreneurs would have been able to restart their businesses a long time ago. And I'm not even talking about the number of infected and killed that we had had less. For example, look at a country like Slovakia. That performed immediately and did what was necessary. Result: 28 dead out of 5.5 million inhabitants. For the Netherlands, that would be 29 deaths, rather than the thousands of deaths that we now regret. The Netherlands is at the top when it comes to the number of deaths in Europe. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet still doesn't have its affairs in order. 60% of care workers in nursing homes and home care still does not have protective equipment such as mouth caps after three months of crisis. What a total failure! How the hell is that possible? If money is the problem, then I think the Ministry should start paying them, because the health of care workers and their clients is all that matters. Mr. Chairman. It's unbelievable, but there's still far too little testing. The Netherlands is dangling in international perspective somewhere at the bottom when it comes to the number of tests. The cabinet now promises for the tenth time to get better. In June, anyone could be tested with complaints. I hope so, but now the adage applies: see first, then believe. Mr. Chairman. Then the new normal, the one-and-a-half-meter society. What a terrible concept that is! Studies show that the risk of contamination is mainly present in indoor spaces. It is therefore wise that indoor areas such as shops and trains should be covered by measures such as keeping distance or wearing masks. But for the outer space, it's really different. American, Japanese and Chinese studies show that the risk of corona contamination outside is really many times smaller than inside. One study, which Mr Van Dissel referred to this morning, even showed that only 2 out of 7.324 corona infections took place outside. That's 0.03%. Outside, no one was infected like that. But if a Dutch family wants to go to a terrace on the beach tomorrow, that's not allowed. And if this really happened, an autistic boy in Leiden accidentally gets 1 meter and 28 centimeters from his boyfriend sitting on a wall instead of at 1.5 meters, then he gets €95 fine. Madness! disproportionate madness! Is this the new normal? Madam President. That one-and-a-half-meter society as "the new normal" in outer space is totally unnecessary and exaggerated. There are two reasons for this. The first is that the chance of getting infected outside is much smaller than inside. The second is that, of course, anyone who is ill or has complaints should stay at home. That's very sensible. Finally. Tomorrow's gonna be a beautiful day. So my appeal to the Prime Minister is: do not wait until after Pentecost, open those terraces immediately and give people in the outdoor areas, give the Netherlands back outside his freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Pieter Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Patience and discomfort: you feel it all over society. In a conversation with someone, sometimes within five minutes the impatience turns into discomfort. Impatience to be able to do it again, to be able to do more, to be able to do more. And last night there was also relief that there could be more. But at the same time, there is also that inconvenience. Are you sure you can do this? Are you sure it's safe? And aren't we gonna be fighting a second spike in a couple of weeks? Crucial to prevent this and to ensure that maximum control is achieved is the timely containment of an outbreak. "Keeping out the fire" was said yesterday in the press conference. To this end, the testing and the source and contact research are greatly scaled up. That's very necessary. At the same time you hear people asking: how does that work in practice? You saw that happen last weekend, but also today. That is why I am asking a number of questions to clarify this. I understand that government officials sometimes start sighing when questions like this come up, for example yesterday at the press conference; oh, all those details. But those details can be very important. That's why I'm asking some questions. Let's say there's an outbreak at a school. Or there are concerns about an outbreak. Suppose there are several people with complaints. What happens at that time? Can we test it immediately? Is there gonna be a rash in a day? Or what if you have a colleague who's clearly coughing? You say to him, "Shouldn't you be tested?" Suppose he says, "Well, I don't feel like it." Do you have to report that somewhere? Is there an obligation to report? Or is there nothing to worry about? Because if someone who is coughing keeps walking around the workplace, that can also lead to a lot of spread. The notification's been taken off. Don't you need it right at a time like this? And what happens if someone's tested positive, and when they call it in, it turns out he's not holding up the quarantine? When do urges and compulsion come into view at such moments? And suppose someone who appears to have had close contacts with the source and contact research is advised to stay home, but the employer says: sorry, you're not sick, so you come to work. What then happens to ensure that not the employer, but society ensures that those risks are borne and people do stay home? Because all this is necessary if source and contact research is to work properly. Mr. Chairman. A few weeks ago, the Prime Minister in international media argued that Africa should also be remembered in this crisis. He was talking about care systems that could fall apart. In this debate, the Chamber asked for an AIV inquiry. That's what's there. When can we get the cabinet response to this? The letter we received yesterday said that by September there should be a plan for that flexible scaling up of ic-capacity and that preventing regular care from being replaced is an important goal. If you want to do that, isn't it important that we also look at regular care and corona care being separated from each other? The SP has previously asked written questions about this, and in the answers there is a small hook that can also happen regionally. I think this might be wise towards autumn. I would like to comment on that further. Next week, we'll be debating the economy. This is very important: employment, businesses. But you also see concerns in society. The disappearance of social links, social cohesion, loneliness. Mr Segers has already announced that he is going to make a plea here for a discussion with churches. I think that is a very good thing and I would like to await the Prime Minister's response. But there's more. Today's spending is starting again, and that seems very important to me. But also community homes, village houses that often form the cement of a social environment, which keep small cores habitable, have been closed. Can they open on June 1st? Is there more room for that? I believe that there is also administrative consultation with municipalities and provinces at the moment. Is the position of the neighborhood villages, those village houses for livingability explicitly taken into account by the cabinet? Mr President, I will conclude. I think it would be very sensible if the cabinet were to answer these questions, especially about the research of sources and contact, and that we would go from impatience and discomfort to confidence, to persevere, but also, as Mr Dijkhoff rightly said at the beginning of his speech, to all be sensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u46	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u47	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet announced yesterday the slow return to our freedom. We've all snapped at that in the last few weeks, when we were sticking to the rules of the smart lockdown. This need for more freedoms was particularly felt by young people, who also paid a great deal in solidarity for vulnerable elderly people. The corona crisis has plunged young people into a sea of time, in which it is sometimes difficult to swim, a time of lack, lack of structure, peace of mind and a perspective. Because the PlayStation is not a replacement for the square and TikTok is not a replacement for the terrace. And we are seeing more and more, as this morning the bad figures of the CBS showed, also a lack of paid work that is much needed for many people to be able to pay for study and life costs. The Prime Minister is now challenging young people to provide ideas for the new abnormal of the coronas society. That's an excellent idea. But where can these ideas be? I call on the Prime Minister not to invite young people to the Catshuis once, but to appoint a Corona Youth Envoy, who can serve as a question box and a ideas box for young people and the Cabinet, as a full partner for the Prime Minister. The fact that we can now look forward to open schools and one and a half meter terraces with friends is already a step forward. But the rules on how and what are still very unclear. That is asking for poor compliance and will result in unjustified fines and criminal records. How will the Dutch cabinet include the new rules in the coming weeks? If people do not use the rules properly or do not comply properly, we run the risk of a second wave of infection. We must prevent this at all costs and if it does occur as soon as possible, if only because of the great pressure it would put on normal non-corona-related care. Because we can't afford to give people who need regular care for a second time as long as zero on the record. What does the Cabinet do to prevent such drama? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. In the Netherlands we pay great attention to all the vulnerable, but a virus does not care about national borders. Mr Heerma also said: last month the cabinet asked for an urgent opinion from the International Affairs Advisory Council on the threat of a humanitarian disaster in Africa. That advice is clear: The Netherlands itself benefits from additional efforts to prevent this disaster abroad. Can the cabinet come forward with a cabinet response to this advice from the AIV for the next corona debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u48	We all know that the budget for development cooperation is linked to GDP. There's gonna be a huge blow; maybe 10% goes off. We also hear that the Ministry of Minister Kaag is currently working on scenarios where there is a need to cut back on development cooperation. I think that's really in contrast to the advice of the AIV that's there. Does Mr Jetten agree with me that the Ministry should also work on scenarios where there is no savings or, even more importantly, where there is perhaps more intensive work so that we can strengthen international cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u49	I think it would be wise for all ministries to make that kind of scenario, not only BuHa-OS, but also the other departments. I heard the Minister of Finance say that we should not fall into the trap of the previous crisis by cutting back immediately. But, of course, there are going to be very difficult years. So it is wise to make those scenarios. But I think the AIV opinion actually says two things. You now need to make additional efforts in the short term to prevent a humanitarian disaster, and you need to think about how to keep that international cooperation in a structural manner. So I look forward with great interest to the cabinet response to that. Mr. Chairman. The fact that controlling the virus still requires all the effort, including in our own country, proves today's spectacular news. Mrs Ouwehand has just said something about this. For the first time since Wuhan's bat, a human being has been infected by an animal, and that in our own Netherlands, in a mink farm in the province of my youth, Brabant. All the alarm bells go off at my place. The traces of the Q fever crisis are carved into the Brabant soul. That is why I would like to hear from the cabinet how it is going to act now to protect the people on and around this mink business. Is public health always in place? What if there are more zoonoses in the future, then who is the boss, the Minister of Health or the Minister of Agriculture? Should we not consider bringing forward the planned decision to help mink farms from 2024 onwards with closure in order to avoid a drama? Mr. Chairman. On the same point: what is the government going to do to prevent slaughterhouses in the Netherlands, as in Germany and the United States, from becoming infected with corona contamination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u50	Thank you. Mr. Azarkan has another question for you, Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u51	One of the measures is that from 1 June it will be compulsory to wear a mask in public transport. I was wondering if Mr Jetten could at least indicate how that relates to the partial ban on facial clothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u52	Mr Azarkan knows that I was not a fan of that ban. I also think it would be very unwise for us to see a mask as facial clothing, because that is really impossible in enforcement. We ask people in public transport for their safety and others to wear a mask for the time being. Please do not let us do it to the conductors and all other boas in public transport and then have to maintain them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u53	Of course, an exception has been made. Indeed, it indicates that if you do so on the basis of health or safety considerations, it is possible. Well, it's interesting that it's actually forbidden to wear medical masks. They do not have a CE mark and our coronapaus, Mr Van Dissel, has said for weeks that it will be of no use at all and that it will not work. And yet it is prescribed. I wonder what it does when you wear a mouth cap and then a hoodie. That's okay, but the other one, a nikab, which is about the same in terms of partial cover, shouldn't be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u54	I'm gonna repeat myself. Mr Azarkan knows that as a D66, I was not a fan of the bill on facial clothing. I found the symbol law. But public transport has said: 'If you want us to start up, that we are going to transport more people in the coming time, but we cannot maintain the 1.5 meters in vehicles, then such a mouth cap is really sensible'. There is an exception in the law on facial clothing not to have to maintain and that is wise for the next few weeks, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u55	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u56	Mr President, thank you. We were happy yesterday: more relaxation. I think everyone's looking forward to that. It is right for the Prime Minister to say that we have earned this with each other, but that it requires an extra responsibility from all of us now that we can move more freely. I would also like to say that, now that we are given a little more freedom, there is also a greater responsibility for the cabinet. I do have a few questions about that. It is of the utmost importance that we know what the cabinet is sending to. They have indicated that they will come up with a dashboard, but what will the targets be? How many infections? What do you want to send? What do you think is acceptable? Zero can't be. We agree on that. How close do you want to get to that zero? This needs to be further developed as soon as possible, so that you can then steer it. We know that as soon as there is another fireplace in danger, we need to map where it is, so that we can isolate it. For this purpose, the capacity of the GGD is important. It's been about this for weeks. We are now at 700 to 750 people at the GGD and on 1 June at 800, but we know that we need 3,200 people in the maximum scenario. How soon will they be there? We've been asking for it for a few weeks now and I just want to hear a deadline: when has this capacity been realized? The ic capacity needs to be increased, but we hear nurses are very concerned about that. I would like the government's commitment that nurses will be included in the further development of these plans. They have to do it. More patients in such a department means that they will be given greater responsibilities. Then the outbreak of the virus among mink. That's a big, big, big danger. I think the reaction of the cabinet has so far been too awaiting, as we have always seen. I hear, "It's gonna be okay. It's not that big. It's under control. It won't skip people, only when you're in the stable." We can't take the risk. We're gonna tell gym holders, for Christ's sake, you're gonna stay closed until September 1st. I understand, because we're not taking any chances. But what additional steps are being taken against this mink farming? What did the Cabinet do? My first question is: has the Minister of LNV been added to the crisis team? Has this company been placed in isolation? Has there been a breeding ban? Is there any consideration of a scenario in which I hope it does not have to be cleared up? What steps are being taken? You can't underestimate this. I really say to the cabinet: you've been warned. If this turns out to be the new fireplace in three or four weeks, you can't say "we didn't know, sorry" and go after the facts again. You have to act now. What else is your story about all those other sectors of society that still have to stay closed? I think about these gyms, for example. Then the economy. A new economic package has been presented today. Next week we are going to have a wide-ranging debate on this, but I would like to mention a few things. I shall begin with something that has already been raised in the debate on the interruption with Mr Dijkhoff, namely the point that large companies which have made huge profits in good times and who have given these profits to shareholders and have not built up buffers, are now putting their hands on the government and taking advantage of them. To those companies we must say: yes, we are helping you now, but soon you will have to repay this money, in any way. I don't see anything about that in the package. I'd like to hear more from the Prime Minister. Then the firing ticket. Of course, companies will have to restructure and there will be redundancies, I understand that, but we want the position of trade unions to be as strong as possible to represent the position of employees. This fine plays an important role. Why seek confrontation with the trade union movement? Then the safety net for the flex workers. I am pleased that additional steps are being taken for companies, that their capital costs are also being looked at and that they cannot now get €4,000, but €20,000. That's kind of a basic income for companies, you might say. But what happens for the flex workers? In the end, it's still too little. We are not talking about a small group, but about 200,000 to 300,000 people for whom we now have no or very limited income provision. Mr. Chairman. My group has serious, serious concerns about the package that is now under way. We have only had an hour to look at it, we will study it further in the next week, and next week the debate will be on it, but we are not confident that the package that is now there is what the Netherlands needs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u57	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, a substantial package of support for companies has just been announced, in which companies can be compensated up to 90% of labour costs and fixed costs. That's important. It is very important that employees and families have security of income and security of work. This is also important for the economy. But if we see that thousands, thousands of people have already lost their jobs, despite the support from the first package, it is incomprehensible that the cabinet in this second package does not choose to make a clearer, firmer appointment with companies, such as: "Yes, we understand the problems and we are going to help you, but we expect you to keep your people in service." Isn't that the least we could ask for now that billions of dollars are being invested? The cabinet also keeps saying: we have to do it together. That's true. We should do it together. But what does the cabinet say to thatzzp'er, who, if we understand correctly, is now going to have to deal with a so-called partner test? Manyzzp'ers will be in trouble, while the people who have worked in these companies in recent years have been responsible for the profits. They have made sure that our economy has been doing so well in recent years. It cannot be explained that these people get the bill presented, while billions go to companies. Mr. Chairman. Another point. We have already discussed the strategy of the cabinet on a regular basis in this Chamber. The cabinet is now saying very clearly: we are opting for the strategy of maximum control. My question to the cabinet is: why not opt for the strategy of maximum isolation? That is what we are concerned about. Why isn't there a more bold extension at the GGDs, to test faster, to test more, to better guide people in home isolation and to have more frequent contact and to call more often than for example three times every two weeks? We believe that if this strategy is successful, it will help us to open up our economy faster and more. Of course, that has a huge impact on a lot of people. The danger is that for a very long time we will have to operate in a crippled one-and-a-half-metre society, with a lot of uncertainty, a lot of people's questions and uncertainty among entrepreneurs. The question is therefore: why not focus more decisively on that contact investigation? Plus: why not better arrange the protection of the people who need it? Last week, a study by the trade union FNV showed that 60% of people in the care sector still do not have sufficient protective materials. The lack of protective materials in the care, the lack of protection of those people, is really the disgrace of the government in this corona approach. We hear the national buyer say: we can order up to five times more things, but we do not, because that is not necessary. Why if it can't buy much more, so that we can protect the people in care, but also the people in the contact professions and also the people who will be driving the trains again and have to get on the train? That brings me to public transport and my questions about it. We understand that the cabinet says: "As of 1 June, a mouth cover is mandatory in public transport. This should not have a protective effect, but if you do not wear it, you will be fined." Who understands this anymore? Can the cabinet explain how this works? 'Cause now it looks like if you make a mouth cap of a sock at home, that's good enough not to get a fine. At the same time, the people who let the trains run are rightly very concerned about their safety. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to ask the cabinet about central purchasing. We have received signals that large organisations and companies, for example, think of supermarkets and drugstores, have offered to buy together protective materials, but that this has been rejected by the Ministry. My question is whether that's true. Is it then the case that the cabinet still considers competition between companies to be more important at the present time than gathering together to arrange protection for our people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u59	Thank you. Oh, did you want to ask a question, Mr. Heerma? Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u60	I did stand up to ask a question. Mrs Marijnissen was just talking about a strategy of maximum isolation. She was especially concerned that that testing and that source and contact research should be in order if you want to check to the maximum, if you want to do that right. In my view, that is what Mrs Marijnissen says. What would Mrs Marijnissen really want to do better than what is now? I've asked a lot of questions about it myself. Nor can it be denied that the source and contact research has been considerably scaled up in relation to what was before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u61	Absolutely, and we welcome that. Of course, we have asked for this, among other things, but many here in the Chamber have already asked for it on a regular basis. That's good. The GDPDs themselves also indicate: we now have sufficient capacity. But our concern is that experts say: if you look at the elaboration of those protocols that the GGD has to work with, you can see that there is sufficient capacity. But our concern lies in the elaboration of those protocols. Then you are talking very concretely, for example, about the speed with which the results of the tests are obtained. I understand that the directive is now 24 hours. In other countries, this is faster. If you have it faster, you can intervene faster. That care is also in the frequency of the contact. First it was said that there would be a question of sending a letter. Luckily, that's changed into: we're gonna call. But we understand that now, in the two weeks you have to sit at home, three calls are made: on day one, on day seven and on day fourteen. While other countries, for example Germany, call every day to find out how someone is doing, whether they can help the person with something and what his concerns are. You can imagine that two weeks are in home isolation for one is a bit easier than for the other. You're gonna be just like a vzzp'er and you're gonna get back to work or you're gonna get back on your feet. And then I hear in a phone call: "You were in a debate with Mr. Heerma yesterday and tested positively. And then I have to stay home for two weeks." For me, it's easier than for someone who's a vzzp'er, for example. So much more guidance from the GGD is needed, as far as we are concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u62	Relativity theory was cited earlier in this debate. But Einstein said genius is 10% inspiration and 90% perspiration. In fact, Mrs Marijnissen says here: the strategy for doing this is good, but it comes down to implementation. This means that we need to test quickly, that there must be results quickly and that people must be accompanied to stick to them and that action is taken when this is not the case. That's crucial, if it's to succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u63	We were given the impression that the cabinet was somewhat hung up on two thoughts. It is said that we are going to invest in scaling up and expanding the GGDs. At the same time, however, it is half-hearted in the drafting of the protocol. That's how experts judged it. That's where our concern lies. We believe that the strategy can only be successful when you are really going to implement it very decisively. And what's more, if you don't, then the people we're asking to continue working now are the most at risk of being infected by our people on the train, our people in care, the people in the shops.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u64	Once again, the strategy must be properly implemented. The fire must be kicked out quickly. That is very important for those employees. For example, what does Mrs Marijnissen think of the risk to someone who is close to someone who has been diagnosed with corona and who is advised to work at home? But an employer says, "Yes, I'm sorry, that's not possible in this case. You come to work, because you're not sick." At that point, the government must also be there to say, "Sorry, this can't happen. This is also national interest. This is a public health issue."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u65	I understand that question very well, and so do we. That's what I was trying to make. It can't be as non-committal as it is now being inserted. If I understand correctly, the protocol states that it is the urgent call to stay home as much as possible. If we really want to be bold with that source and contact research, then we should not only call people three times in two weeks, but also really better accompany them with all the questions they have and with the problems they are guaranteed to run into. That may indeed be because they are dealing with an employer who says: you just come. But you'll only have a zero-hour contract. You're gonna sit at home for two weeks when you don't have any complaints of your own? For one that is really much easier to realize than for the other. This is something we have to do together. If you stay home, you don't do it for yourself, you do it for society. I think it is only natural that we, as a society, organise this together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u66	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. Mr Asscher has the floor on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u67	Thank you, Mr President. The crisis keeps showing different faces. For a lot of people, it was nice news yesterday. The terraces open a little later than Dijkhoff wanted, but they open. But for a lot of others there is illness in the family or their job is now in danger of being lost. Then why should you talk about the strategy? Is that even important? I think it's very important. I thought Mrs Marijnissen did just that very well. Why is that important? Because we have to get rid of what the VVD just did, which is to pretend that there are actually three choices: the country is locked up until midnight, let everything go and we're all gonna die, and the cabinet's strategy. That's not true. In between there is a whole bay of choices that are political, where you have to justify what you do and why, where you have to show on the basis of what advice you do, and where we as representatives of the people have to find something about this. Because it matters. If you don't make those choices right or support them properly, it can mean extra sick people, additional deaths and additional economic damage. That's why we're talking about the strategy. And then the image comes up of a swirling strategy, of a changing strategy. It's possible. That is up to now, but at least now you have to make it very clear what we are choosing. I'm positive about the tightening we've seen. I'm positive about De Jonge talking about kicking out the fire. But I think the questions Heerma asked about these are not simple implementation questions. They point precisely to the question of what strategy you are putting in place and why. Let me give you three examples. The first is the justification of the one-and-a-half meter economy. This morning Van Haga asked: why is it not 1 meter, as the WHO does? There must be a different answer to that than what Van Dissel said, namely 'no one knows'. Because it has a huge impact on the economy. Second, the train. It's just been mentioned. Soon you will be as a vulnerable elderly person, who may have bought a mouth cap at the Hema with a CE-marked "T" there they will be sold, in packs of 50 "T" if you don't take off that mouth cap when you get on the train, and also incriminating if you take it off and not immediately put on that old sock. Speaking of public support and a clear strategy... You're gonna lose it in a minute. When Van Dissel was asked to do that, he closed his nose and said: that is something of politics. Well, then explain it to me. Thirdly, protective equipment and tests and the way the GGD handles them. Until last night, we had a protocol that said, "We'll send a letter." That's a letter that's gonna be on the mat between the accounts and the tax charges. That's not serious testing, isolation and quarantine. So I ask the cabinet to support the points in the cabinet that differ from the way they do it in Germany, for example. I am convinced that it is much more cost-effective, that it costs much less in terms of health and economic damage, if you make the most of it, if you do. I do not think this cabinet is going to do that, but the argument of our people is the most shabby argument if you simply have no reason to do something in a certain way. Mr. Chairman. We can see that this crisis is affecting everyone, but that the health crisis is hitting people with vulnerable health harder, and that the economic crisis is becoming a social crisis for all those people with vulnerable wallets. When you say "we have to do it all together" and "we have to go through this together," it also requires that the cabinet has a strategy for that in its response, that we look at the people who are particularly vulnerable, such as the flex workers and the call forces. With all the questions I have about the government's strategy: today there is an obvious mistake in saying 'we are removing that threshold for dismissal'. I would like to talk about ways to help small businesses or larger companies in difficulty. I'd like to help you think about how to prevent bankruptcy. But when the security of existence for so many Dutch people is at stake, you should not do this. That's an expensive mistake. I don't care if it's a political mistake. I'm worried about what it means in the lives of an incredible lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u68	Thank you. Mr Segers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u69	I would like to put to the House the case that Mr Dijkhoff gave in his reply to Mr Asscher. A company that wonders: are we going to survive or not? That employer must make a difficult assessment. He looks through his eye hairs and makes the terrible balance: maybe I should let 10% of the workers go to provide 90% of the workers with security. That's the certainty the PvdA wants. Now, of course, Mr Asscher's position has the attraction of simplicity, namely that no one should be fired. But if an employer is faced with the dilemma that, in order to keep 90% of the people safe, he has to let go 10% with pain in the heart, does Mr Asscher say: am I going to pay the man or woman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u70	That is not the current situation. There's no prohibition on firing. In fact, it happens a lot, to my regret, but above all to the grief of those workers. Even now, this imaginary company, if it has to fire people, can do so. The only difference is that under the current scheme there is less State aid for that company as a whole. This ensures that this is taken into account in the assessment. The cabinet is now proposing that you keep the support. That is a support that is greater than we have ever seen in history. That's unprecedented, and I'm happy about that. I think that's what the situation is asking for. You keep that support and you actually remove the incentive that makes the employer say: yes but wait a minute, I have an extra interest in keeping them all in service. I think that's very dangerous. Let us think of an exception clause for companies that are in total trouble. Let us provide additional support for the most affected sectors, culture and catering, where people can do almost nothing more. But don't take that threshold down, because that's going to lead to a lot of extra layoffs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u71	I'm not going along on the assumption that an employer likes to fire. It's always losing. It sucks to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u72	That's not my point either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u73	The assumption is that you can weigh: I'm gonna fire a little less than the financial penalty on that, or the incentive, which is bigger. In other words, I'd rather fire more than that incentive, get rid of that fine. That's an assumption I don't know. That is not the normal employer who deals with his employees in a decent manner. Still. What if this is the situation? Suppose a shaky company weighs: hanging and strangling, I can keep it 90%. Are you making it harder and harder for him to keep that 90%, or are you trying to make it easier?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u74	Nobody says entrepreneurs like to fire people. But what Mr Segers is saying is the opposite. That discharge protection is not there because it is not necessary. This is because an employee is weaker in relation to the organisation and because it is important that there is a balance. Unfortunately, I have experience of this, and I think that we share the fact that, in an economic crisis, the vulnerability is increasing and that companies are sometimes going to lay off massively. So what do these workers get in the cabinet proposal? They'll be taken care of. They will soon be given the possibility of a free digital development advice. 50 million is earmarked for this purpose. But a lot of employees who lose their jobs do not need a voucher for free online development advice. They want to keep their jobs. That's what it's about. We are now going to support massive companies with a three-month package. I want to think with you. As far as I am concerned, we are making a motion this evening calling for the help of that imaginary company that is going bankrupt. But please don't be naive about the companies that are going to restructure and are going to fire them, not because they like it, but because the shareholder wants it, because it is profitable or because it seems attractive from the perspective of the owners of the company in the longer term. That is something we must avoid. That's what this is about. Those employees aren't all highly educated whizz kids who think: I'm going to get an online development advice now. Those people are out on the street. They've been compromised in their survival. This is the day to do something about it. I thought the cabinet had come up with an excellent arrangement: up to 90% support, but with a threshold. A compliment to Minister Koolmees for that. But keep that threshold in mind and think of something smarter for the companies that otherwise won't make it, because we're going to get more layoffs than we need, and that's going to get people deep.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u75	I'm in favour of fire protection. I am in favour of strong workers' rights. I'm in favour of the strong position of unions. There's a position for unions. With greater dismissal, in larger numbers, the union has a position. The works council must have a position in relation to a social plan. That's crucial. This is indeed crucial in a decent labour market. But I would like to taste something of the dilemma, of that consideration. It is so black and white, while here is the former Minister of Social Affairs who knows that there are a lot of shades of grey, that there are incredibly difficult dilemmas, including for employers. I'd like to taste some of that. Anyway, that's how she is. Then there is the final question, the political question: if this is the package and the PvdA Group has to come to terms, do you say no to 13 billion of aid or do you say that you, perhaps with an asterisk and an explanation of vote, still want to support those companies and still want to ensure that that employment is maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u76	I do not think Mr Segers is doing me justice by saying that I take this very seriously. You can also have respect for another political view without pretending to respond to it in black and white. That is simply not true. I'd be happy to color that. My sister-in-law has a bar in Amsterdam. He heard at the press conference that it had to close in half an hour. He's got people in his employ. He's doing it nicely. That's a huge problem, a huge problem. I am in favour of additional support packages for those sectors that are so affected, the culture, but also the catering industry. That dilemma that an individual entrepreneur or employer can feel is eating away at people. It hurts in the abdomen. The government has to help with that. We are. But also from the experience I have, I am not naive about what will happen if you do give that massive support, remove that threshold and say: but you have to abide by the law. Of course. But then it's all after. I'm very worried about that. That is genuine concern, because I know that a lot of those people who lose their jobs, often older workers, don't get in the way anymore. The younger workers went out because they had an uncertain contract. There's got to be a better safety net for that. The older workers can fly out like this, and we really shouldn't want that here. I would therefore like to appeal to you. You are already asking about voting behaviour. That's almost a political thing, too. I think we're having a debate on this. Let's make sure this arrangement is better. Then I can vote enthusiastically in favour. Whether I can do that now, I can't tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u77	Thank you. Mr Segers has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u78	Madam President. At the beginning of the crisis, the Prime Minister said that 50% of the knowledge required us to take 100% of the decisions. We've been ten weeks. We know more, but we're still looking in that rearview mirror. If we look ahead, it's still foggy. That makes steering and adjusting difficult. In terms of strategy, the cabinet is committed to containment and maximum control. Flaming fires need to be put out quickly. That's a good strategy. But let us make good use of the current transition period to ensure that we have the fire fighting in order, also for later. How does the cabinet ensure this, for example when it comes to testing capacity? Yesterday, new relaxations were announced and on 6 April, the OMT formulated five conditions under which relaxation would be possible. Can the cabinet go through these five conditions again and state that they are indeed being met? What is the government's assessment of these risks and how are the various investigations that have been launched, including the spread of virus by children? Madam President. The cabinet comes with a dashboard, but that looks a little complicated. With the proposed indicators, do we have the appropriate information to quickly detect the burning of fires? Based on what do we step on the brake when and do we have to put out again? How can we make the dashboard information accessible to ordinary people like me, who are wondering whether we are in the danger zone or not? An important focus remains on care capacity. Scenarios are now being made for a substantial increase in ic capacity and scaling up of regular care. How is this done in a way that the doctors and nurses keep up? Is the cabinet prepared to give the various professions in the care sector a say in the decision-making process on the long-term strategy? This question was also raised by Mr Klaver. Fire control also starts with prevention. This week a nice plan for lifestyle prevention has been offered to the Secretary of State of VWS. Is there anything else we can do to strengthen our immune system? May I ask the Secretary of State, through the Minister of VWS, to come forward with concrete proposals to give this a boost? Mr. Chairman. The cabinet consults with the catering industry, cinemas and gyms and looks at customization. But also churches need more clarity about responsible customization. Churches play a very important role in society when it comes to reflection, community and volunteering. They bring more people on Sundays than the paid football. I just want to say it again. Given this own position, it is high time, as far as I am concerned, for the cabinet to sit down with churches and make arrangements about the space and customization that the RIVM guidelines allow. It could be about opening up churches, buildings, local customization, volunteering and perhaps meetings in the open air. Is the cabinet prepared to consult with the VNG on this with churches and religious network organisations, such as #not only? Then I have a few specific questions. One. It is a good thing that visits are made again in nursing homes and in disability care and that daily spending is restarted. But people with disabilities also need guidance in relaxing the measures. When does the Cabinet come up with an inclusive transition strategy in line with the UN Convention on Disabilities? How do we ensure that everyone can continue to participate, including in the one-and-a-half-metre society? Two. FNV conducted a survey of care personnel on the use of protective equipment. Many employees still experience a lack of protection. Mr Marijnissen already put his finger on that. Can the Minister promise that if caregivers need to use protective equipment, they will be available? Three. There is uncertainty about mouth caps in the Ov. Colleagues have already asked questions about this. I would ask for further clarification on this point. I am in favour of legislation to replace the emergency regulation, because it strengthens the democratic legitimacy of measures. But as far as the Christian Union is concerned, measures that are now being taken remain a temporary abnormal and not a new normal. So I'm assuming that the cabinet is building clear horizons and that renewal always goes through parliament. I would like to receive a comment Madam President, all the way to the end. I understood that the Prime Minister spoke inflammatory words to young people and encouraged them to revolutionize at the bottom. That's a big deal. I'm more anti-revolutionary myself. I was glad the VWS minister quoted Abraham Kuyper. But is the Prime Minister prepared, as he was before, to take the input of Coalition-Y, the coalition of youth organisations and a number of parties, and perhaps take time to engage in this discussion? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u79	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u80	Thank you, Mr President. The cabinet has taken further steps on the Roadmap from the intelligent lockdown. The concern is about whether it's not going too fast. We have already shared this concern with the cabinet in the previous debate. Isn't it too fast? Care is afraid of a second wave, which she will not be able to handle. The Prime Minister's answer is always: only if it is possible. With everything we know about the virus, however, logic says the following. After two weeks, people only show signs of illness. For this reason you are always waiting two weeks to see what the effect of the earlier relaxation has been. On 11 May the schools opened up and the contact professions started again. I see the Prime Minister went to the hairdresser. That's really good. Don't you have to wait two weeks to see what the effect is before you take the next step? We understand the concerns of the hospitals in Brabant in particular. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet keeps saying: public health is paramount. We hope that's true. The cabinet also keeps saying: we listen to scientists. Scientists, 1,600 scientists no less, say that it might be a good idea to just make people's living environment healthier. It's not just good for the people themselves. If you're healthier when you get the virus, then your own immune system is better able to catch it. So that also means that, hopefully, you don't have to go to the hospital and burden the care. Is the cabinet going to work on prevention, which these scientists are asking for? Mr. Chairman. Then the big test: is public health at the forefront? The big test is always: what happens if the meat industry has an interest that gets in the way? We have not heard the cabinet independently about the slaughterhouses. The Animal Party has warned from the beginning that you cannot comply with the measures there. That's gonna be a risk to the people there. It's gonna be a fireplace. So we're seeing that now. Over and over again, we have asked questions about this. This morning we received answers, in which the Ministry of LNV still took a tone of: well, it's all not that bad. Two hours later, the Minister of LNV had to send a letter stating that in the Netherlands too a large slaughterhouse had to close, because there was an explosion of contamination. I really want to draw the Prime Minister's attention to this, because he too did not properly inform the Chamber. Two weeks ago, he said, "N.V.A.W.A.'s gonna intervene." That didn't happen at all. When the unions rang the bell, the Labour Inspectorate also said: well, well, those were a little big words. The role of the Labour Inspectorate is therefore not entirely clear here either. I think the cabinet should act immediately. We can't afford those fireplaces. It can't be because of those people themselves, but also because you don't want new fireplaces in the spread of this epidemic. Mr. Chairman. Then the core of the problem. I remember when I mentioned it at an early stage, the Minister of VWS asked what a zoonoses actually was. Well, by now, that's basic knowledge for almost everyone. That's what De Groene Amsterdammer writes. Many epidemics start as a zoonosis. So that's a disease that starts in an animal and jumps over man. Three quarters of infectious diseases come from animals. Those animals can't help that, but that's because people want to breed, catch and kill animals if they need to. Europe has only two major outbreaks of diseases that have leapt over people from modern, intensive livestock farming. However, what does not belong to the basic knowledge is that these outbreaks have both occurred in the Netherlands over the past twenty years. In 2003, 1,000 people were ill because of the avian flu and a veterinarian died. Then came the great drama: Q fever. Now the Netherlands still has a scoop. We are the first country in the world where corona has broken out among kept animals. That was in the mink farm. There too we saw the same dynamic, for which we have been warned. The place is being covered up and it's said there's nothing wrong. There is no intervention, no action on the basis of the precautionary principle, and the Minister of LNV is entitled to make the decisions. However, the evaluation of the Q-choir outbreak showed that there were two important opinions: the precautionary principle first, and the perseverance force, the boss, must be the minister of VWS. Those two points the Party for Animals wants to meet with the Cabinet today. The mink farms must be shut down and the VWS Minister will be in charge of preventing and combating animal diseases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u81	I call Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The words that stuck with me after a work visit to the hospital in Breda a few weeks ago: "The virus makes us humble." And indeed, the last few weeks and months have shown how vulnerable we are all and that there are limits to making it work. We are grateful that today we can talk about celebrating the reins. But at the same time, we realize that we need to stay alert. Customisation is the key word for the SGP, also for all economic aid measures. A dashboard is being developed to closely monitor the spread of the virus. It's being developed. If that is really ready as of 1 June, I ask the Minister of Health. It is crucial that everyone is tested for minor complaints as well. Don't get messy. Don't get messy. Don't get messy. Don't get messy. Don't get messy. Don't get messy. To achieve this, a strong, clear public campaign is needed. What's he gonna look like? Mr. Chairman. At the press conference last night, in the statements and in the letter of 44 pages, all kinds of topics were discussed: museums, theatres, restaurants, cafes and so on. But not a word about the churches. I find that painful. Almost three weeks ago I already asked written questions about the size of church buildings in determining the number of visitors, about asking the Outbreak Management Team. Those questions have still not been answered. In the previous debate, the Prime Minister finally promised me to explore the possibilities for tailor-made work. Then it remained deafeningly silent again. When a journalist asked at the press conference last night what happened, the Prime Minister spoke about churches as fireplaces and suggested that churchgoers would be okay to have online services. I have noticed that, and I am happy to share it here, that it has made a lot of people very painful. I recognize that, too. Churches have kept to the measures announced by the cabinet from the outset. If very quickly the finger went in the direction of divine service, it sometimes appeared that it was on closer inspection. In short, I think it is very important that we should be careful when talking about this. As far as online services are concerned, many churchgoers are certainly grateful for that, but they also want to be able to actually go back to the House of God. For those who can imagine little: it feels just like it does for people who love going back to a loved one in the care center. Those people haven't been helped to keep dialing. You're gonna miss the real meeting. In addition, such a far-reaching restriction of religious freedom as is currently the case requires careful scrutiny. Is it justified to limit the number of churchgoers to 30 in a church building with 2,000 places and many entrances and halls, while even 30 people are allowed per room in a theatre or cinema? That's an incomprehension. That is why today, for constitutional reasons, I once again call for tailor-made work and more attention to the position of churches. Mr Segers also spoke about it. I'm counting on a positive response from the cabinet. With a wink I say to the Prime Minister: a little less pub and a little more church in the statements, that would please the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The relaxations give many people more space to go and stand wherever they want. I told you, we're grateful for that. But it doesn't apply to the elderly in the nursing homes, although there is light on the horizon. Nor does it apply to people who, because of physical or intellectual impairment or psychiatric complaints, reside in a form of residence or institution. How does the Minister offer healthcare providers comfort to avoid unnecessarily slow expansions and to actually give residents more freedom of movement? Mr. Chairman. Finally, a comment on the international perspective. We have discussed earlier that some African countries have more Vice-Presidents than Ic-Beds. I assume that the cabinet will prevent the Dutch budget for development cooperation from falling free as a result of the economic downturn. I also look forward to a response to that emergency opinion from the International Affairs Advisory Council, including related coverage. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u83	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u84	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Corona virus has been holding the Netherlands in its grip for more than two months now. The virus appears to be under control, but the effects are visible and will remain so for a long time. What is the government's strategy to tackle the corona crisis? It is not clear to me and many Dutch people. Create maximum control in conjunction with immunity, as announced by the Prime Minister on 16 March, and as they do in Sweden and in a sense in Germany? Is that eliminating the virus, like in New Zealand, Australia and South Korea? Or is it muddying and singing until there's a vaccine, like in the United States? I'd like a clear answer from the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. An unclear element in this strategy is the use of mouth caps. For weeks, coronapaus Van Dissel preaches that mouth caps have no effect in public. And what does the Cabinet do? You must have a non-medical mouth cap, which has no demonstrable effect, subject to a fine of €95. Can you still follow it? In addition, we have a legal ban on facial covering clothing in the d.o.b. And now, because it's necessary, everyone has to wear face-covering clothing. Very contradictory and it again indicates that the law on facial clothing is symbolic politics. Yesterday, a dashboard approach was presented by Minister De Jonge. I have two questions for the Minister. Does the Minister now comply with the privacy laws and has he requested advice from the Dutch Data Protection Authority on time? Mr. Chairman. We can return a little bit more to the old normal, but the relaxation is good news for one company and a drama for the other. You probably just quit in January and put your savings and your energy into a gym to hear in March that you can't open. And then there's no view of when it can. Can the government do more customization here? Why work out with ten people outside, but not inside, even if there is enough room? Mr. Chairman. We see that the consequences become noticeable in our economy. Unemployment is rising at a record rate, and as the dismissal penalty disappears, this will only increase. Next week, we will be debating this second package of aid together. Mr. Chairman. It is not fair that coming together with four people or keeping less distance than 1.5 meters is a fine of €390 per person and a criminal record. Mr Wilders has already spoken about this. That's really disproportionate. The result is that for five years you cannot work in education, with the police, child care and part of the care, because in an unattended moment you kept 1 meter away instead of 1.5 meter. It is also the question of how legitimate these fines are based on municipal emergency regulations. I ask the Minister how many of these fines have been paid, in what age categories and in which cities? The Prime Minister said yesterday that we're all doing it for the young. Young people have the future, but it's gonna be a lot harder if you have a criminal record. Can the government consider converting the criminal penalties into administrative fines, with no criminal record and much lower? I am considering a motion on this point. Finally, Mr President. The virus doesn't distinguish between humans. We can get it all and it's impossible to predict what the effect is. However, certain groups suffer more than other groups. Where one Dutchman wonders if there is another crate of food at the food bank, the other is already weeks away, because he cannot drink his beer in the village café. And there is a clear difference in consequences for older people and young people, people with and without permanent jobs, people with and without a migration background. For example, the CBS figures indicate that the excess mortality rate among people with a migration background is 48% and among people without 38%. That's a 10% difference. Is the cabinet prepared to ask the SCP to investigate where this inequality comes from and how it manifests itself, especially as a result of the corona crisis? I am also considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u85	Thank you. Mrs Van Brenn now has the floor on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u86	Mr. Chairman. Older people built our society and contribute to our country in many ways every day. They're our grandfathers and grandmothers, fathers and mothers, brothers and sisters. However, there are more and more painful words about our senior citizens in this crisis. For one are vulnerable elderly wood cut by the coronavirus, others keep it a little more civilized and argue for a 60-min society and age limits when reopening the catering industry. Mr. Chairman. These are words from the manifesto of the Christian Union's colleagues, among others. And these words are 50PLUS taken from the heart. Is the Prime Minister prepared today to say encouraging words to the elderly, the group most affected by this virus? The cabinet wants the dashboard ready in June. With this information, the RIVM can quickly see new revivals. Afterwards, it will be advised about measures. But what are the basic principles? Is the number of ic-beds considered, for example? The difficult questions then are: how many deaths, ic-recordings and sick do we accept? When do the alarms go off and the measures become stricter again? One of these measures remains: work at home as much as possible. Colleagues have just mentioned this. To what extent does the Cabinet monitor this? Are employers being addressed? And what can an employee expect? Is working on site allowed if the employer has taken measures to ensure that 1.5 metres away? In two weeks, anyone with complaints can be tested by calling with a national number of the GGD and planning an appointment. That was always an important point for 50PLUS. Isn't there gonna be any kind of triage in making such an appointment? So can anyone who reports be tested, provided the capacity allows it? Is that a national capacity or are there restrictions per region? Despite all efforts, there are still many signals from healthcare workers who do not have the necessary protective equipment; colleagues have already mentioned it. How does that rhyme with the passage in the letter that the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries indicates that an increasing and changing demand from healthcare providers is being met? This is also in relation to Mr Marijnissen's motion, which was adopted in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then questions about the public campaign, about the start-up of regular care. In what way and when do people get information about starting that delayed care? In the letter of 6 May, the Minister spoke about this. I'd like to get the status report. What is the situation in home care and in community care at the moment? What is the expectation for the coming weeks, also in view of the people who cannot or do not want to go to a nursing home and need a lot of care at home? Then there's a difficult subject: suicide prevention. This is particularly important in times of crisis. Every day, five people die from suicide. Over half of them are 50 years of age or older. The scaling up of ggz care is crucial, but also the capacity of 113 Suicide Prevention. Is the Minister prepared to increase that capacity? The Minister writes in his letter in increasing the ic capacity to take the polls of the Federation of Medical Specialists, V&VN and the advice of Professor Buurman. For 50PLUS, "to be taken" is really not enough. That doesn't do justice to their position. I'd like a response from the Minister. What signals does the cabinet receive from the municipalities? Are they sufficiently equipped for all the tasks they have in this crisis? Are there any results of the discussions with the UNG on the necessary financial resources? Does the government see opportunities to make extra money available to enable municipalities to provide more intensive support for carers? Finally, Mr. Chairman. Is the cabinet prepared to extend the WW conditions considerably in order to prevent flex workers in particular from getting to assistance quickly? This is bad for those involved and for the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u87	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u88	Mr. Chairman. To be perfectly honest, this government has actually done little good in this whole corona crisis. We can beat around the bush, but time and time again the cabinet followed the facts and did not anticipate what was clearly going to happen. At first they did not want to test all this was not necessary and now they want to make tests available to everyone. Mouth caps didn't help and then suddenly they did, but then you're not allowed to use marked mouth caps in public transport. So if you have a medical mouth cap, you have to take it off when you get on the train and replace it with a coffee filter. Otherwise, you're gonna get a fine. Totally absurd, incomprehensible. The cabinet has been blundering for months now. Too late everything got going. No preparations were made. Then the lockdown came, way too late, causing unnecessary casualties. And then the lockdown took way too long. It should have taken up to two, maybe three weeks, not more, just to increase the capacity of intensive care, identify vulnerable groups, regulate testing capacity and store protective equipment. All that could have been done much and much faster. But now, too, the start-up of the economy is getting going much too late, causing numerous companies to go bankrupt, people to sit at home unnecessarily, children to suffer learning disadvantages and so on. A very simple, very concrete example: tomorrow, Ascension Day. It's gonna be beautiful. We already know from research that the number of infections outside is very limited. In the outdoors, the virus is not or hardly transmitted. But it was decided not to reopen the catering business until after the weekend, on 1 June. Why? Because that's the first of the month. All measures take place on the first day of the month, so that has been chosen again. In the outdoors, however, the virus is not or hardly transmitted, as I said. So give catering entrepreneurs that extra turnover this weekend. Tomorrow, open the shops and catering, the terraces. Today, we are calling on the Prime Minister to make a statement tonight, so we are going to make a statement. If he does not, I will table a motion in the second term which has already been co-signed by Mr Van Haga. I also expect the support of the rest of the Chamber. Then there's the support package. There too, the cabinet must show flexibility. The one-and-a-half meters are not necessary in many situations, nor are they sustainable, impossible. Make it possible for people outside the risk group to move on flexibly with their lives. Protect vulnerable groups, the groups that are really at risk because of the corona virus, but keep the whole society, all those people who are not actually at risk of becoming seriously ill by corona not all out of normal society. Give people the opportunity to exercise again, before September 1st. It's possible. Those possibilities are there. At last, ensure that there is sufficient protective equipment. Test for immunity on a sample basis. According to Maurice de Hond's estimates, more than 20% of the population in Amsterdam are already building antibodies. If that is true, our policy has not been based on proper analysis of the situation. So we need to know what's going on. If China can organize 11 million tests in Wuhan, then we must be able to do so. You guys have to be able to do that, right? Dijkhoff talked about the fact that permanent change in society is something we need to get used to. A permanent change. We are opposed to this. We do not want a permanent change. We want a temporary change that was necessary to get something under control, but we need to get back to the old normal and not find something new that's abnormal, normal. We do not want a society of mass surveillance, no crowd control, no society of mandatory vaccinations. We'll never go along with that. We don't want a new normal that's not normal. We must act smartly to protect vulnerable people effectively and also look at medicines. The results of hydroxychloroquine seem amazingly good. The cabinet must immediately investigate this and urgently examine the possibility of releasing it again for the first line. Is the Prime Minister prepared to do so, or the Minister of Health? If not, we shall also table a motion for that in the second term. Finally, I believe that the 1 billion that the Consultative Council on International Affairs wants to transfer to Africa should certainly not be transferred to Africa, but should benefit the people in the Netherlands, who now need it more than ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u89	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of the Krol/van Kooten-Arissen Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sure the Prime Minister remembers his first television speech on Corona. He promised to protect our elders. I reacted enthusiastically to that. Now, two months later, we find that the opposite has happened. The elderly were left to their fate and they have become the victims of this corona crisis. It could have been different. Taiwan I was talking about this two months ago, too, as a country with a smaller surface area than the Netherlands, and there are more people living there. During the SARS outbreak in 2003, Taiwan was one of the hardest hit countries. That's what Taiwan learned from. It was therefore possible to take effective action. And this particular country has enormous contacts with China. The measures taken by Taiwan are contrary to the measures taken by this government. There were plenty of mouth caps from the first moment and from the first signs of a corona outbreak and extensive testing was carried out. There was no intelligent lockdown and the economy and social life did not fall silent. Restaurants stayed open. In Taiwan, mass meetings were cancelled, but the carnival continued with us. We had to keep older people inside, they weren't allowed to receive family visits, and in Taiwan, the elderly went out. Just this morning, Mr Van Dissel confirmed that outdoor contamination is only a fraction of what is contaminated indoors. The result: in Taiwan only seven people died. It is remarkable that data expert Maurice de Hond and a new American investigation that was announced today indicate that Taiwan's corona measures are much better: go outside, put a mouth cap in non-ventilated spaces. So we can learn a lot from Taiwan. That is why it is a pity that the Dutch government is still leaving Taiwan, and all that to avoid insulting China. China, a country that did not give full disclosure of the corona outbreak, while Taiwan warned us from day one. I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u91	Thank you. I now turn to Mr Van Haga, the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The measures taken by this cabinet are asymmetric and therefore rather arbitrary. To give a few examples. Why can a hairdresser without a mouth cap come within 1.5 meters and not the rest of the Netherlands? Why do you get to stand in line at IKEA, but not train in a line at the gym? Why can't the regular catering industry open until June 1st, but catering services on sports complexes only from September 1st? And why is the occupation limited to 30 people? Why not just look at the occupation per square meter? It really matters whether you're talking about the Concertgebouw or a small theatre. And why, for example, are bowling centres not allowed to open again until 1 September? Mr. Chairman. It is a Kafkaesque situation that leads to bankruptcy, loneliness and misunderstanding. Where the government first got some understanding, it soon disappears. As far as I am concerned, gyms, theatres, pubs, restaurants, concert halls and brothels will open again on 1 June, and then without the arbitrary one and a half meter measure. The one-and-a-half-meter society is unwelcome and untenable. The economic, social, social and cultural damage is enormous. Moreover, man is a social being and we do not want to live in a state-imposed social immunity. The cabinet will have to examine alternatives, such as mouth caps, a voluntary two-stream society, differentiation between inside and outside or a society with better air purification in buildings to remove aerosols. Is the Cabinet prepared to investigate alternatives to one-and-a-half-metre society? Over the past three years, I have often seen MPs here get angry when our fundamental rights are violated, but our fundamental rights are now being violated. The government permits everything in the name of corona and distributes corona fines to its heart's content. It's a state of emergency without being declared, but it's deafeningly quiet here in this Chamber. Finally, I repeat my appeal: let us resume normal life on 1 June, not at 1.5 metres, but with smart alternatives that are less harmful to our society. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u93	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm suspending the meeting for an hour. That means we combine the suspension with a dinner break. We shall resume the debate at 6.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u94	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u95	Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked. I'll start right away. I've been trying to sort them out a little bit. The first question is about the community centers. They may open their doors again for up to 30 people, provided 1.5 meters and based on a reservation/agreement with a check-call. Customization for gyms, the question about that. As you know, Minister Van Rijn is in talks with the sector to see whether tailor-made work is possible and, in doing so, earlier opening up. Particular attention will be paid to the spread of the virus. Then important questions about the churches. Since the corona crisis, Minister Grapperhaus has been in contact with various church societies and religious dome organisations almost weekly. He is willing to continue to do so to see what is possible in the run-up to subsequent decisions. He will also involve other relevant parties, such as the VNG and municipalities. He has already called for reflection on the intelligent start-up of the worship services as soon as the cabinet indicates that there is room for that again. Hopefully that will be the case as of 1 July, when the limit goes from 30 to 100. A number of religious organisations have drawn up protocols in which they indicate how they can start and resume their services in the one-and-a-half-metre society. I believe that this is an excellent opportunity for the desired customization, because the church itself is responsible for drawing up, implementing and complying with such a protocol. I have, of course, listened carefully to Mr Van der Staaij. I certainly didn't mean to demotivate anything there. On the contrary, but it's a complicated subject because at the moment we just see that in a number of churches the virus has spread quickly and there are risks of singing. I don't have to repeat it all. We know it. Therefore, I think it is particularly important that those talks of Graperhaus with the churches take place at the moment. Of course, we are trying to ensure maximum respect for the constitutional protection of religious freedom. That was my answer to those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u96	I look first at Mr Van der Staaij. Mr Segers will then be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u97	Good thing the Prime Minister comes back to that point and says that it was not his intention to insult people here or to paint a wrong picture. The bottom line is that sometimes it is very common that church services are so dangerous, whereas in a study of Sommelsdijk, for example, this was related. I think it helps everyone if there's really hard information about that, just to come up with it. Then it can be shared and that creates understanding. Now it's a bit like hearsay and then it hurts, you get the idea like you're being put away like fireplaces, contamination fireplaces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u98	I fully agree with Mr Van der Staaij. Furthermore, there is reason to investigate the risk of singing in closed spaces, among other things, or that creates additional problems. That is what the OMT has been asked for, and we hope to get it as soon as possible. Then we also have more insight into it and then, if that is a risk, you could consider again whether you do divine services without singing or singing and in a way providing for it. Sorry, I was distracted by Mr. Asscher. Of course, there are all possibilities in that, but once it is important to know that. Yeah, so that's actually that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u99	I hear the Prime Minister say something about this customization, including for the big municipalities. How do you prevent people from having to wait endlessly until their turn and can't you use that surface smarter? So this is also a subject of discussion with Minister Grapperhaus?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u100	Yes, at least in the sense that he talks to the church organizations and other religious communities. This is, of course, especially in the context of the hopeful scaling up to 100 per 1 July. This naturally offers opportunities in larger buildings to take account of that distance... But now I'm gonna improvise a little bit. I can imagine that at that time, of course, you can do more in a large building than in a smaller one. That is, of course, natural. In the end, however, the institutions must meet the requirements of the corona control. It's not like we're drawing up a protocol that we approve and then we're allowed to. It is the other way around: churches have to comply with the conditions, but a protocol will help them. For that, the conversations we are having are useful.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u101	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the commitment that the cabinet is open to these talks. There are conversations already taking place. They are more about ongoing, somewhat smaller, matters, but they could deal with the larger issues. I know that desire lives with the churches. They look, for example, at the conversations that take place with the catering industry, in which customization is also sought. Then the question arises: can we have the same conversation? I understand from the cabinet that it wants to have that conversation; thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u102	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u103	But the churches are not only a asking party; they are also a bidding party. Hence I also mention a network organisation as #not only. That is a choice of organizations, including the Salvation Army, the Evangelical Broadcasting and others. They say: we also want to do voluntary work; we also want to help locally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u104	Yeah, they are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u105	They already do, so it would be nice to use those forces from that circle as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u106	I didn't think they were connected to these conversations right now, but I'll ask Grapperhaus to see if that can also play a role in this context. Let me take a look at that. I just don't know. Otherwise, I have to ask the official whether this has already been included in the discussions, because I do not really know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u107	Not yet, but it would be good if they got a place there as well. The question I got myself... I've also had questions from the Jewish community. Mr Azarkan has asked questions about Islamic funerals. I imagine other religious movements have other questions. I can imagine that there will be talks with them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u108	But they took place. These are religious umbrella organisations, including those outside the Christian faith. So there is also talk with other religious umbrella organisations. That's what Grapperhaus does in his role as Minister of Honor. At least, he is particularly concerned with the question of worship services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u109	Finally, on this point. If I understand correctly, the Prime Minister says: "We are not going to draw up a protocol together. They have to comply with the guidelines. That must be justified." But at the same time these conversations are taking place with other sectors and they are looking at customization. I understand that people are open to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u110	Yes, we do, but it's not like we're offering customization at the hospitality office. There's no customization anywhere. For all catering establishments: maximum 30, within 1.5 meters distance and outside also, outside that 30-border does not apply, families may sit together, agreements on enforcement. But that doesn't include customization. It is not the case that something special has been agreed for the catering industry under the rules "1.5 meters," "stay at home as much as possible" and "avoid crowds" and hygiene requirements. It's complicated. It is true that it helps if a sector itself has drawn up protocols to name how they deal with all these conditions. It's not like we're going to approve the protocol, because then you'll get what I said earlier about the Arbo, which is that you do describe in the law what the goals are to be achieved, but that you'll then be stuck in all kinds of detail of those goals, which is a huge pile of bureaucracy. That's what you're trying to prevent. Those conversations are useful to see how you can learn from each other and how you can solve things, but without the government then approving a protocol or drawing up a protocol. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u111	My question concerns another part of the Prime Minister's introduction. There was a lot of concern and uncertainty at community centers about whether they could open up. The Prime Minister clearly states that this can be done by 1 June according to the 30 rules, as is the case elsewhere. But there is also the question of the important role that community homes and village houses play for local society, about the cement they form. There are concerns that it's falling over. There are several parties, including my party, who have asked questions about this. The answer is always: municipalities have a role in this. I think that's right. You can also see that provinces take on that role. Think of livingability in small nuclei. Is the cabinet prepared to discuss this issue, the importance of these village and community centers, in the administrative consultation with municipalities and provinces? There is always a reference to the role of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u112	Let's do it. On 7 May, the village houses and neighbourhood centres submitted to the Minister of EZK a request to be covered by the TOGS scheme. It is not yet clear whether this is possible, so I think it would be wise for the Minister of State to involve this in her consultation with the municipalities and provinces. I think that's smart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u113	Thank you for this commitment. At what time can we get more information about this? Because the concerns are different per municipality, because some municipalities are very proactive in community centers and neighbourhood centers that they are really going to fall down, are very large.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u114	I get that. I don't know. There's an official listening, so I'm gonna ask if I can get a note on the assessment when that's possible. So let me put this question separately for the administration. He'll be right back. Then I hope to have an answer on that date in this period. Then there was the question about the number of 30 people: why not look at an occupation per square meter? What we are doing is starting all the measures small. It is small to large, from outside to inside and from local to regional to rural. This is how we build up the measures. So you also want to prevent large groups from coming in immediately, because that leads to a lot of movements. That's why we start with 30. This will prevent it from leading directly to interregional traffic. How do we keep an eye on people working at home? We don't. It's an advice: work at home as much as possible. But we're not watching people do that. But it's actually going really well. Everyone understands "work at home as much as possible," "public transport is only for essential professions" and "let children ride a bike or walk to school, even in the rain." Unfortunately, that's something we're stuck with right now. Why don't the restaurants of sports complexes open? So that's about the restaurants of sports clubs. That's because the deal is: your shower at home, you change your home, your sports and you go straight home. Why can't you stand in line at the IKEA, but can't you train at the gym? The problem here is that there are conversations with gyms about........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's why they're on September 1st. But I told you there are conversations going on, to see if we can get more insight and see if gyms could open sooner. Hairdressers do not have a mouth cap because they can ask people if they have complaints. You can't do that in public transport. I'll be right back on public transport. Why not wait two weeks to relax measures? The estimate is that the impact of the package that started on 11 May is very limited in terms of primary schools and, of course, hairdressers. It was immediately said by the OMT: this will have a very limited effect. Of course, the package of 1 June has a greater effect. That is why there are also four weeks, a whole month between June 1st and July 1st, and we are not going to take interim measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u115	All due respect to the Prime Minister, but he's all answering loose questions now. I had asked a somewhat more conceptual question about the so-called new normal of one-and-a-half-metre society, which I mentioned in my first term and in an interruption to Mr Dijkhoff. My position is that for everyone, and certainly for a liberal, we should not do so if there are no good reasons, and I do not think there are any. At the very least, a horizon should be created for it. My first question to the Prime Minister is: does he agree with me that this new normal of one and a half meters society should never become the new normal of the Netherlands? And how long does he think he can sustain that, in a society that is not at all inspired by it and with people and companies that are not inspired by it? I am referring specifically to outside not inside, but outside, where, according to Mr Van Dissel, the risk of infection is also evidently significantly lower than inside. How long do you think you'll last? It's something that doesn't belong to the Netherlands at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u116	Scientific advice shows that this 1.5 meters is really important outside. That's what you actually see all over the world. The WHO recommends "at least 1 meter." A considerable number of countries use 2 metres, such as Spain, the UK and Luxembourg. A lot of countries handle 1.5 meters just like us. There are also countries that handle 1 metre, such as - I say this from my head - Italy. Indeed, the risk of infection inside is greater than outside. That's true in itself. That is also one of the reasons why, for example, outdoor sports can be done and not yet inside. But outside of course there are all kinds of conditions that you have to consider: is it blowing or is it wind silent, and how is the situation at all? Reference has been made to the investigation in China, but that was done at the time everyone was inside. Yeah, then you don't see much spread of the virus outside, because everyone had to stay inside. In short, on the basis of all the scientific advice we have and the risks involved, including in outer space, we come to this view. We in the world are not alone in that; most countries do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u117	That investigation in China isn't about a time when everyone was inside. That research was published in April. The research was done in January or February in a region outside Wuhan, where the people were not yet inside. You're not going into that. You can read a story about what the WHO thinks and what all kinds of other countries are doing, but you are also a liberal politician who pretends to be at least a politician, and it is part of that that if you restrict people in their freedoms, this must be proportional. If there is no reason to do so, if you see that out of the 7,000 cases examined there are only 2.. and again, there are also a lot of other investigations........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Then you can't do that. Then at least you'll have to do an investigation into it, or connect a horizon to it. Again, the one-and-a-half-meter society, the new normal, is something we should not want. How long do you want it to stay five feet? Is that forever? Is that until the new vaccine arrives? That might take another or two years. How long do you want to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u118	As long as it is necessary according to experts, we will consider such advice. The Outbreak Management Team, which has a lot of experts on virological and epidemiological issues, has advised us that it is important to do so. That's what you see all over the world, by the way. It's just being pretended to be a Dutch phenomenon, but it's happening all over the world. Liberals have freedom, but also responsibility. It's always freedom and responsibility. One's freedom must not be at the expense of the other's freedom. That is a responsibility that every individual has. That is why it is extremely important that we find this balance here. As long as the expert opinion says that we really have to do this and we have no arguments against it, and we see that the whole world is doing this, then I find it really irresponsible to say: you know what, let it go outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u119	It is not an argument to say: everyone does it, so do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u120	On the basis of advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u121	Yeah, based on advice. But you have a vision of your own, don't you? Recently, after you first found that all the advice of the RIVM was sacred, you said here in relation to the schools and otherwise: we are also looking at it with common sense. I can still hear you saying it here, in this room. Today, even Mr Van Dissel has said to Members of Parliament that there is no contamination outside. The whole hospitality business is going to hell right now. They all go to the sharks because they have to make terraces taking into account the 1.5 meters and because you also do not allow them to open with Pentecost. You know, Mr. Rutte, when people walk down the street outside and they don't know each other, they don't walk half an inch apart. That's not normal use. So we need to get back to the old normal. The old normal outside is that we're free to move how we want it, especially if it turns out it's not infecting. It's not extra infecting, it's less infecting. In addition, common sense says that if you are ill or have complaints, I have heard the Prime Minister say about 500 times just stay home. If you do, and you also take into account that the chance of infection outside is less, then it is almost North Korean (although I think that's the only country that doesn't) to say: you have to keep a foot and a half away. So I'm gonna stick with it, Mr. Prime Minister: let that go. It's not necessary and you can't explain it to anyone except for the argument that the rest of the world is doing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u122	Each Party shall be entitled to its inconsistencies. Mr Wilders argued here a while ago for a complete lockdown where nothing was allowed, because we were not strict enough. We sail on the compass of experts, then we make a political weighting. It is not the case that we take the expert judgement for granted; we also make a political weighting. There is an advice from the Outbreak Management Team, which includes dozens of experts. During the technical briefing today, Mr Van Dissel once again said that one and a half meters in the case of infection control in general is also the distance you always use, also independently of corona. That is simply a normal distance that we use. The OMT says that distance is effective in risk reduction in the transmission of infections in respiratory infectious diseases, including outside. Then I find it quite a risk what Mr Wilders is proposing here. If he were in my spot, he'd say, "Drop that OMT advice in the wind." Prime Minister Wilders would say: it's bad for the catering industry, so we don't stick to it. So you're taking too big a risk. I do not think it is consistent, however, that I should like to say once again what Mr Wilders, whom I also appreciate, is saying now. In the past, he has advocated far more stringent measures than those taken by the government at the time, also on the basis of all advice. Now he's gonna hang exactly the other way and he's gonna say, "Oh, why would you take such advice?" The WTO is suddenly no longer anything, even though we agree here that it is important that our OMT should take root in the WTO's opinions. They're throwing it out the window now. I don't think that's wise, but it's okay. I'm a little surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u123	Prime Minister Wilders would say, "I've always told you to stay home when you're sick or have complaints." Research shows that the 7,000-investigated cases that weren't really all within the only two people, that's 0,3%, got infected. It is therefore justified to do so. That's what Prime Minister Wilders would say. He wouldn't restrict people's freedom if he didn't have to. Again, that is disproportionate, especially for a liberal. Then I'm at the other point. The Prime Minister is addressing me. He says I'm inconsistent. Mr. Prime Minister, I wish you'd listened to me. If only you had made a very short lockdown a month earlier. Together with Mr Baudet, in a motion I advocated a lockdown of up to three weeks, but immediately. The Chamber held a debate on this at the end of January, I think it was 29 January. From mid-February it was already known that the first infections were there. It was already known, turned out afterwards. There wasn't enough capacity to test, so that became known later. But we could have if we had our capacity in order. Then a month earlier, as other countries did, you could have put the Netherlands in a short lockdown. Four weeks in this time, I know how many deaths and people who are infected less. I wish you'd done that. We'd have had our freedom back by now. So what I'm doing isn't inconsistent. That's consistent. You were late, and you are keeping people's freedom far and far from them for the wrong reason. That's bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u124	No, Mr Wilders is inconsistent, not only in time, but even in this debate. He just said that he did think that the 1.5 meters inside should be maintained. He then contradicts himself. He says, "Well, that's all bullshit, because if everyone stays home and has complaints, you don't have to keep the 1.5 meters. Why, then, would my question be to Mr Wilders, if apparently everyone remains at home with complaints? You never know for sure. Moreover, there are also times when you do not have a cold problem yet and can already transfer the virus. That's the pre-phase. Mr Wilders is therefore not only inconsistent in time, but even in one debate. That's good. But that's all I like about him. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the question that has been asked about the OMT and the five conditions. The first was that the R should be under 1 for a long time. That is the case now. The care system should be able to handle it. Now you can see that because of the decline in the recordings and the ic-capacity. You've heard how the test capacity is. In June, we want to test everyone with complaints. The source and contact research is also related to this. With regard to the measuring instruments, yesterday you heard from Minister De Jonge the explanation of how we are going to shape the dashboard. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the mouthcap discussion. First of all, let me say that the purpose of such a mouth cap in the OV is to protect others from yourself and therefore not yourself from others. That's the goal. It is true that the non-medical mouth cap has less effect than a medical mouth cap, but according to the OMT it does have an effect in situations where the 1.5 meter cannot be maintained. It's not like you get a fine when you put on a medical mask. I've heard that say here and there. That is not the case. We ask you to put on a non-medical mouth cap, because we want to use the medical mouth caps for care. We don't want competition there. But it's not like someone gets a fine when they put on a medical mask. A scarf or sock is not allowed. They also asked where to find the requirements to be met by the mouth cap. You can find this on the website that deals with this. You can make them yourself if you like. You can buy them, too. If you buy them, the VAT will not be charged. You can see that the same thing is happening in the countries around us. Also non-medical mouth caps as an obligation in places where it is 1.5 meters difficult. In public transport it will be very often 1 meter. Soon, 40% of the capacity of public transport will remain at the top of the 100% we now have. Again, the instructions have been published by the government and can therefore also be used correctly. The last question that was asked was about the consequences for the vog, a possible vog application. In general, one corona fine for disorder of law and order due to collusion or failure to set up the mouth cover will not lead to a refusal to vote. Especially if it is below €100, it does not, as you know, lead to a note in the Legal Documentation system. You only talk about a higher fine in exceptional cases. Normally that fine will be €95. So it should not have any consequences. The ban on facial clothing has an exception for clothing that is necessary in the context of health. So a nikab in the O.V. is not allowed, a headscarf with a mouth cap is allowed. Then there was also in a general sense, so not so much because of the mouth caps, because we don't have them yet, the question how many corona fines have actually been distributed. That was 7,400 criminal decisions on 10 May for violations of emergency regulations. That puts us at a very low number if you compare it with most other European countries. Mr President, I will come to the slaughterhouses. But I see Mr Asscher standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u125	Yes, first Mr Asscher and then Mr Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u126	NRC quoted quite extensively from a directive stating that it would not be allowed to use those medical mouth caps and that it would not even be allowed to use a mouth cap with a CE number. Wasn't that a directive? Was that a directive and has it now been repealed? Did that directive only exist in theory? I ask because it raises questions about the cabinet's strategy. The Prime Minister keeps saying, "I'm pointing to the experts." This morning we saw Van Dissel say: that is really up to politics. 'Cause he still doesn't like the masks. I'd like to hear what the strategy is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u127	I told you. The Outbreak Management Team says that in situations where the 1.5 meter cannot always be maintained, a non-medical mouth cover is useful. That is why we have to impose it. We don't want you to put on medical masks, because we need them for the medical sector, but we're not gonna pay for them either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u128	Just before your count, Mr. Chairman. My question was rather specific: does this directive exist or not? Or has that directive been repealed or amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u129	I'll have to check. I don't know by heart. I don't know all the guidelines by heart. I'll have to check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u130	No, I think that's... I don't want to accuse you of making excuses, but it does sound a little muggy. My first question was about that directive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u131	I answer the policy of the cabinet. You are now asking whether this is laid down in a directive. I'd like to double-check that to be of service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u132	Is it allowed to travel by train or by other public transport using a medical mouth cap?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yeah, that's okay. We're not gonna fine for that, but we're asking you not to, because we don't want to compete on medical masks. Because we need them for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u134	So it's a scarcity argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u135	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u136	While the HEMA just sells those mouth caps in bulk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u137	Yes, but the point is that if everyone in public transport is going to use medical mouth caps, you're going to talk about millions of mouth caps a week. You're going to run the risk of competing with Martin van Rijn, who needs them for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u138	The Prime Minister's reacting a little irritated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u139	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u140	As if I would pretend that he should know all the guidelines by heart. But this is a big deal. You require people in a free society to wear something and there is a directive that says: it should not work, it should not protect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u141	I'm not saying that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u142	That actually removes the basis under such a far-reaching obligation. In that case, the question on which that measure is based is justified. How can it be that there is a directive around which NRC quotes what it says? If scarcity is the argument, and that is a common thread in this crisis, say so. Then say, "We have a shortage problem. Of course it is better if you wear a mouth cap that works, but be a little careful and be a little economical." All the time with reference to experts saying "you have to have a mouth cap, but it can't work," that's not gonna be him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u143	But then Mr Asscher confuses a few things. That will be because I'm not clear. I don't blame him; that's up to me. The goal of the mouth cap is to reduce the risk of spreading drops out of your mouth and nose to the environment. That's the purpose of the mouth cap. The OMT says that it is useful to put on a mouth cap in a situation where the 1.5 meter cannot be maintained. In public transport, this situation can occur more quickly than, for example, the hairdresser. With the hairdresser, that 1.5 meters is also impossible to maintain, but then you can have a conversation in advance about whether you have complaints. If anyone has any complaints, say as a hairdresser: you are not welcome here. You can also see that the countries around us all have the same obligation, namely to wear non-medical mouth caps. The OMT does not recommend using a medical mouth cap in public transport. That's not necessary at all. You want to prevent the spread of the drops from one person to another person. That takes a piece off when you put on a non-medical mouth cap. Apart from that, the question has been asked why you don't want a medical mask. Of that we say: let's all make sure that they are used in care. So if someone buys a thing like that and sets it up, they don't get a fine for wearing a medical mask. But if everyone did this and in that way would fill in the request to put on a mouth cap to protect others from their drops, you run the risk of having fewer mouth caps available in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u144	Of course, you could also say: if you force people to wear a mouth cap, we're going to work on it to make sure there are enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u145	That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u146	I believe that the second question I asked has not yet been answered. That is the question of the strategy. We debated this last time. Then the Prime Minister said, "Yes, that's a little semantic. Actually, we all want the same thing." I don't think this is true. I think there's a big difference in the strategy you choose within the bandwidth that you can never completely eradicate the virus from the face of the earth, and the bandwidth "let it go." My question is whether it is true that, at least since yesterday, the cabinet has opted for an containment strategy, whereby you really want to kick out a fire as soon as possible and therefore do not wait until the care capacity begins to squeak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u147	But then we love the masks. Now it's about the strategy of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u148	But the masks have to do with it, because of course it's about your strategy for as few infections as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u149	Wait a minute. That last misunderstanding threatens, and perhaps not. We ask people to keep five feet away, unless they form a household. Where the 1.5 meter would be in danger, this can sometimes be solved by asking the front door if you have any complaints, for example with the hairdresser. You don't have to wear a mask. What does the OMT say? From the spread of your drops to another person, such contamination may arise. To reduce this spread, it is good to put on a non-medical mouth cap. That is why we are working with the decision to set up non-medical mouth caps in public transport. Mr Asscher now asks more broadly about the overall strategy. We have tried to put it back in the letter, as I outlined last time. I have described the strategy of maximum control. I would like to ask Mr Asscher what the questions are about the strategy we have described. If he wants, I can also describe exactly what the strategy is. Maybe he has a specific question about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u150	I was trying to find out whether the conclusion is correct that at least now the cabinet seems to be explicitly opting for a strategy that focuses on containment. Maximum checking leaves the possibility that you say: as long as it stays within the care capacity, we like it. While I heard Minister De Jonge say, "We want to kick out the fire as soon as possible." This means something to the way you look at a dashboard like that. You want to minimize contamination. So you're going to do super ambitious source and contact research. Where first there was "we'll send you a letter," you go in. That would also mean that you should do it at least as ambitious as the Germans. So it makes a very big difference which strategy you choose. My question to the Prime Minister is: save the sick and the dead, save damage to the economy and therefore explicitly opt for such a strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u151	Okay, but then I'll outline what we're doing, because I don't really have a clear idea now where our differences might be; maybe it's there and maybe it's not there. We opt for a strategy that focuses on maximum control. In doing so, we keep looking at whether, on the one hand, the vulnerable group, the elderly or people with vulnerable health is as well protected as possible. At the same time, you want to prevent all kinds of planned operations, for cancer or other cases, from being possible in hospitals, because the hospitals are at risk of flooding, as we saw in that outbreak phase at the end of March and in the first half of April. You can also choose a different strategy. Actually, I'm gonna go back to my speech in mid-March. An extreme strategy would be to just let the virus blow. Then you would have had 23,000 people on the ic at the height and we know that the vast majority of them would have had no place. I don't think anyone's arguing for that. You can also opt for a long-term continuation of the lockdown, or for an almost complete continuation of the lockdown. It could be. For a few reasons, we don't choose to do that. First of all, because the virus will be re-introduced by people from abroad. In addition, the virus will spread under the radar, because you never know exactly where it is. You're trying to follow that as best you can. Thirdly, you know that even if you all follow all the measures, stay at home in case of complaints, wash your hands as much as possible, work as much as possible at home, you still run the risk that not everyone will abide by them. With a strategy of continuing the lockdown for a long time, with the lockdown partially or quite heavy, you will never be able to prevent new introductions of the virus completely, or almost completely. And here's another thing. Our view is that the chances of people not complying with the code of conduct are to stay at home as much as possible in case of complaints, avoid crowds, work as much as possible at home, wash your hands, keep the 1.5-metre-long life-size when people know that the lockdown is going to take a very long time, potentially until there is a vaccine. In our view, the paradox of this strategy is that it will lead to more spread of the virus rather than less. We therefore opt for maximum control. In doing so, you keep in mind that vulnerable people are as well protected as possible, that hospitals can handle it, that your test, test, test and follow-up is as good as possible. This includes what is not a strategy, but part of the strategy in its implementation, how do you shape it in a way that if there are new outbreaks, you contain it. You check it out by testing and then doing the source and contact research. That's just like it was supposed to be in the beginning. When it got too much in Brabant, we went from containment to mitigation. It didn't work out then. In the north, we continued to contain them for a very long time. That wasn't a strategy. That was the work of the G.D.D. and giving follow-up to infections. Mr President, perhaps I could sum it up. So the way I see it, you can choose to blow the virus. You shouldn't do that. In the other extreme you can choose to continue the lockdown until the virus is completely gone, or almost completely gone. I think that does not work, for the reasons I have mentioned: introductions from outside and people who no longer comply with the code of conduct. We therefore opt for maximum controls, keeping the virus under control as much as possible. If there's any outbreaks, you're gonna stop it. As an instrument in your strategy, if there's a new outbreak...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u152	I realize that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u153	It's important to focus on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u154	I realize that some of the words are repeated. I still think that's important to do. Here's what I've been sketching that's happening all the time. There are two extremes, and in there we all agree. I honestly don't think that's right. One example is the two red lines mentioned by the Prime Minister. That is protecting the vulnerable, which may mean not letting people have visitors for a very long time, and that is that regular care is not at risk. If those are really the red lines, then you can have a lot of infections and lots of sick people, even a lot of deaths, before you intervene. The second part, which the Prime Minister said was not a strategy, but part of the maximum control, is on its way. Why does it matter so much? If you put everything on that, it's relatively cost-effective. You hire people at the GGD, you offer people a hotel, you go in. It also prevents the sick and the dead. You therefore prevent further damage to the economy. That's a strategy. You could say, "We've always found that." However, that is not the case. Until two weeks ago, the instruction to the GGD was not at all to do that intensive source and contact research. Until last night, the instruction to the G.D.D. was to send a letter. In our popularity, we cannot cope with telephone calls. Next week we will have a new directive. So that's pure strategy. The GGD said this morning: we are doing what we need to do within the directive we get from politics. My question is whether the Prime Minister would like to confirm that, at least as of today, the strategy is to contain, kick out and as much as possible bet on that source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u155	The strategy is not contained. Embarking is your tool to achieve your strategy. The strategic imperative, the stategical goal of our policy, is to ensure that you control as much as possible. That doesn't lead to an infinite number of deaths. You don't want that at all. Surely we in the cabinet cannot claim that our aim is to protect the elderly and people with vulnerable health and accept that there are a lot of deaths there, which you might have prevented? At the same time, you also want to avoid, what the other guardrail is that you absolutely cannot get into, that your hospitals become overloaded again. That's why testing is so important. The OMT opinion of 6 April says: if you want to relax measures at some point, it is very important that you can do so on a much larger scale. We are now at a point where we can hopefully do so on 1 June or at least in June, in conjunction with a cautious further unlocking of the economy. Inside, the containment of new outbreaks, the stomping of the fire, is very important, but that can't be your strategy. The strategic imperative is: keep it under control. If there are then fireplaces, you have to kick them out. But even if you do, you still run the risk of introductions coming from outside, that people still shake hands, that the virus is getting a bit more under the surface. That is why I am also saying: the strategy of staying locked or almost locked, the long-term continuation of the lockdown, I am not saying that Mr Asscher says that, but it is a choice that you could make. And that's why we're choosing a strategy from March onwards in my speech articulated on March 16th of maximum control. As an instrument, it's part of testing. It was not possible then, because then we had in the north of the country, but in the south of the country no more capacity to kick out the fire. Now we have rebuilt that capacity, and we want it to start again in June as an instrument within the strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u156	I continue to disagree with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u157	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u158	The argument "we're an open economy, so new introductions continue to come" is correct, but if it's your strategy to get as few infections as possible, then you have to say not to say "we're an open economy and we have a popularity and we're so sober" but to think about how to prevent infection when people from abroad come to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u159	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u160	For example, The Economist writes about the possibility of green zones in Europe from countries that have a similar strategy and can therefore rely on their neighbour, in our case Germany, to do the best they can to prevent contamination. I think it is a reversal of the argument to say: it doesn't make any sense, so forget it. I think the reverse is necessary. You are obliged to do the best you can to prevent infection and convince other countries to do so. That is not something we are going to do in the future. Today we see that there are 45 infections at Vion, a slaughter farm you also know. What do we do about it? Is that where we're testing the area? Is that where we're testing the contacts? How do we make sure that doesn't get any further out of hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u161	For Vion, I can't exactly check that out. I didn't see the case until this afternoon. In the sectors where this is important, such as education and care, people with complaints can now all be tested there. In the letter you have read Mr De Jonge will deal with this in such a way as to take place from 1 June or at least in June. I agree with Asscher. Of course you can't say: there are introductions coming from outside, so you let that happen. No, of course, that's where you try to work as intelligently as possible. I'll walk by them. It's a fact that not everyone adheres to the behavioral advice, but you have to do everything you can through campaigns or like I start every third sentence with "stay at home with complaints, wash your hands, keep five feet away, avoid crowds and work as much as possible at home" to constantly send out that message. Two. Asscher's right. I also said it yesterday in the press conference that, in the context of Europe and in the context of summer travel, you are looking at what other countries are doing, at the risks of people returning from those countries of vacation. How do you deal with that? These are all issues that we now have to face in the context of summer holidays, for example. That's right. But with the what, how and why is it "what" up to control. How do you do that? You do that by using all the instruments you have, exactly as Asscher calls them. One of the instruments is: contain and stamp every new flicker. Agreed. When it comes to traveling or not complying with the behavioral rules and rules, you do everything you can to ensure that people do. You shouldn't think, "Oh, let it go." Why? Because you want your hospitals to survive and the elderly and people with poor health to be protected as best they can. That's the thing, how and why. That's how you do it. But in the strategy formulation you have to name very sharply what your instruments are and what your strategic imperative is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u162	I'm going to see Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u163	I would like to continue on this point. It has just been discussed in detail and, if I understand correctly, the Prime Minister says that the strategy we have is maximum control. This includes all kinds of instruments: keeping a distance of 1.5 meters, testing more of what is now possible, and the source and contact research. All other measures are instruments to achieve this. Is there some kind of performance measurement that shows that maximum control works? What bandwidth is that in? I am talking, for example, about the number of deaths, the number of patients on the ic and the reproductive factor. Within what range will this strategy be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u164	That is what Mr De Jonge is all about, because that is the dashboard he presented at the press conference yesterday. I think it's a good thing he's doing that right now. That is what we are about to address and that question is going to be answered, perhaps very comprehensively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u165	Thank you. Then I had another question and it's about the mouth caps. Those masks are the prime minister's favorite subject. I have actually heard Mr Van Dissel say: there are 15 scientific studies that show that these masks simply do nothing. I was under the impression that he didn't think it was an insult if you asked him about it. Then he said: well, there is also an investigation somewhere that shows that it could do something in a few percent. I find it strange that if we have fifteen scientific studies in relation to one research that shows it a little bit, we will persevere here and the Prime Minister says: we will prescribe that in the D.A. That is why it is allowed, because normally face-covering clothing is not allowed in public transport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u166	Wait a minute. The Outbreak Management Team advises and says: listen, in those environments where the 1.5 meters is a problem and you cannot ask in advance if someone has complaints, it helps to spread through someone who has complaints or by someone who does not experience the complaints themselves, but can transfer the virus in that prephase. You can't get on the bus or the train, expect the conductor or the driver to ask if you have any complaints, because that's not logistics. The OMT then says it's useful to put on a cap like that. That doesn't have to be a medical mouth cap. This can be a non-medical mouth cap; the NEN standards are on the website. That's how it works. I can keep repeating it. By the way, almost all of Europe is doing this nowadays. They also prescribe that in public transport. It's not that bad that we do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u167	I find it totally unbelievable. Studies really indicate that that mouth cap just doesn't work properly. In fact, it wasn't even prescribed for people in nursing homes. They had to walk around without protective equipment. Why wasn't it said at the time: let's use one of these fabrics? You can wash such a cap yourself and you can see how to use it online. It's really symbolic politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u168	This mask is meant to prevent people who have complaints from spreading the virus to someone else. This is, of course, different from in the nursing home sector, where you want to prevent the staff from getting infected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u169	Why? I think you're trying to stop someone else from getting it or getting it yourself. I know that research shows that it's primarily meant that you don't hand it over yourself. So people who set it up and think they're protected by it are wrong. They protect the others. But it turns out we have corona in 950 of those nursing homes, doesn't it? There are nursing homes where half the residents died. They must have gotten it from the caretakers, or did they start it there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u170	But we don't know how the introduction to the nursing homes took place, do we? I have had this debate with Mr Wilders two times before. He said, "You have to apologize for what's going on in the nursing homes." I said then and I repeat that answer here: you must first know more about what happened there. Does that have to do with the protective equipment or with other things? All this really needs to be known first. This is too quick a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u171	A question has been asked about the strategy and the Prime Minister has replied extensively to it. In that context, I asked for the five conditions which the OMT formulated on 6 April to be met. The Prime Minister calls them and says "check" five times. Of course, I rely on confidence and I know how much the OMT's advice weighs, how it weighs and how the cabinet decides. That's very heavy, but it was very fast. Let me take one condition out of it, namely the capacity and capacity of care. That's a very exciting one. Of course you can say: well, that's fine. But we know there's going to be a scaling-up of regular care. We know that a lot of staff has been asked. How can you do that in a way that they are not overasked and that they also have control and can talk with them in the scaling up of that care and the choices they make?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u172	I would like to reply briefly, because Martin van Rijn has armed himself to the teeth to answer that question from you and others. Of course, we're gonna do it together with the care. Plans are now being made for the ic's and for hospitals, etc. That is, of course, very relevant to that condition of the OMT, literally: the care system, including intensive cares, should no longer be overasked and should have had the opportunity to recover. The number of occupied ic-beds has fallen below 300 and the average number of people on the ICI per day has been under ten for the past ten to twelve days, I say, out of my mind. If you assume 21 lying days, you really have a very low number of ic-beds, based on what we know now. You look in the rearview mirror by the way, so it becomes important to always know if there are any flickering up again. Because then, of course, you have to be able to intervene. That's why Hugo de Jonge over the dashboard. I agree that you should do this with the care. Of course. Martin van Rijn is not gonna think of that in a tower in The Hague, we're gonna do it together. But maybe he can go into it like that, because he has a lot more to say about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u173	I understand that sometimes things have to be listed here in a short summary. But those five criteria or those five conditions of the OMT are extremely serious conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u174	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u175	And so you have to weigh it very carefully. You just went really fast. I thought that's how we walked past those five conditions. But if we can still talk to Minister Van Rijn about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u176	About the second one, the care system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u177	Yes, the care system and also the control they get. I am concerned about that. 'Cause they've been asked a lot of them. There will also have to be a catch-up to the care. So I'd like to hear a little more about that than just five "check, it's okay."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u178	No, no. Sorry, I didn't make myself clear. There's one that won't come back. That's the R, the OMT's first condition. That R has to be smaller than one for a long time. Since March 16, it has been below 1. It's May 19th or what it is today? May 20th, so it has been for some time. On the other four we come back. Van Rijn returns to the care system. On the test capacity, the source and contact detection and the measuring instrumentarium, the dashboard, Hugo de Jong will be back shortly. So all four of them are dealt with in detail here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u179	I asked what the strategy is and how it relates to implementation. I understood from the debate that just took place, and I'm just checking to see if that's true. But that's what I'm wondering. 'Cause I think what your strategy is also determines what you're sending and bet on. The image that lives with us at least, but I also notice with others, is that it seems that the cabinet could lean on two thoughts. Is that so, I ask. The result is that there are quite a few experts who express concerns about the extent to which the source and contact research is now being developed. So my question to the Prime Minister is as follows. I hear him say, "When the fire blows up, we have to kick it out right away." Then why don't you take everything out of the closet? Then why not bet on more tests, even faster tests, the things the experts indicate, much better guidance for people who should be in home isolation, see if people might even need to be compensated if that can help society? We don't hear the cabinet about that kind of thing. I think that is a debatable fact that at least the feeling may arise that the cabinet still clings to those thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u180	Well, then it's not. By the way, you can't test people any more than you can test them. Anyone who has complaints can be tested without barriers from 1 June hopefully, but at least in June. Well, there's nothing else you can do. Besides, there's a whole question of how to follow it up. You could see that in the letter. Hugo de Jonge is about to discuss it extensively, based on the latest insights: how fast does it go, how do you scale up at the GGD, how do you scale up at the phone calls to ask people how they are doing, whether they are still at home and how their complaints develop? Hugo de Jonge will be answering all these questions in a moment. Everyone must, of course, draw up a strategy in their own way. What we are doing is what all of Europe is doing, just as we are doing. Except perhaps one or two exceptions, but France, Italy, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium all do so. We're all pretty much on this strategy. First, you have to ask what someone's strategy is, so ask the question. Then the question is how to do that, so the instruments. I just had a discussion with Asscher about that. One of the instruments is the stomping of new fires. Another instrument is how you deal with people returning from abroad. Another instrument is how you deal with a situation in which the virus threatens to flicker up again. That's the dashboard: how do you control it? Those are all tools in your strategy. When I look at what strategic choices we have, I see three or four. I just outlined them. You blew. No one wants that. You got what we're doing. And you can also go a step further. Then you will indeed continue the lockdown, so that no one or almost no one gets sick anymore. I say of that: firstly, it does not work, because not everyone adheres to the behavioral measures, however well you do, and because in an open economy like the Netherlands, it will never completely succeed in stopping any introduction from abroad, even though you have to do everything about it; I agree with Asscher. And if you do that, in my opinion, in our opinion, the social consequence will be that I am not even talking about the economic consequences. They'll say at some point: forget to wash it with your hands and you're five feet; I'm done. The paradox of choosing a strategy of long-term lockdown, so that no one or almost no one gets sick, is that a lot of people get sick. That's a choice. In the end, they're strategic choices we make here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u181	Yes, strategic choices...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u182	Strategic choices. Sorry, a little too much jargon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u183	"Strategic choices" we all understand. It's a long answer, and it's allowed, because it's also complex matter. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister does not answer the specific question I asked: if the experts are in favour of more decisive source and contact research, why do you not simply fill it in? That was the specific question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u184	Then we'll do it in my beliefs. De Jonge's gonna go into that in no time. We do. We try to give substance to what the experts recommend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u185	But the Prime Minister is referring to abroad. Well, very simple: look across the border. Germany, for example, invests much more in that source and contact research. For example, they say: we choose to call people every day. Until yesterday, the GGD's idea was to send people a letter. Fortunately that has now been exchanged for bells, three times in two weeks' time, as we understand. But if you really think that this is gonna help us, and we think that this is gonna help us stop the virus, open up the economy faster, and minimize the number of sick and dead people, then you could choose. Everyone understands that you can't completely isolate or eliminate it. And no one here is arguing for a complete lockdown to continue. That is often raised, but I haven't heard anyone say that here at all. However, there is a call for more intensive, bolder source and contact research, and not half-hearted implementation, as it now stands. If there are experts who say it can be even more bold, then my simple question is: why shouldn't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u186	Because we believe that we are now giving the best follow-up to what the experts recommend. By the way, the good news is that Mrs Marijnissen does not disagree with the strategic choice we are making, if I understand correctly. She actually says: within that strategic choice, the instrument of containment is very important. I agree with her. I totally agree with her. And with that instrument of containment is testing when people have complaints, without thresholds, and that subsequent source and contact research. You have to do it as best you can. We believe that what we are about to do is as good as possible, that we do not reverse a stone. But I would like to ask Mrs Marijnissen to go into more detail with De Jonge, because he has been fully prepared for that and he also likes to tell us about it. If he doesn't, he says he's gonna rob bread. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u187	It's nice to hear Minister De Jonge likes to tell you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u188	Yeah, he's very excited about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u189	We look forward to that. He's excited about it. That's good. Anyway, I don't think we're getting anywhere on this. I will therefore put the same question to Minister De Jonge. Let's talk about the masks. I was shocked by the Prime Minister's reply just now, in my view in the debate with Mr Azarkan, to use non-medical mouth caps, which I still think is a complicated term, but which is good for public transport, because medical mouth caps belong in care. One. How is it possible that apparently there is still a shortage and we have to make agreements of this kind, when we hear from all sides that there is much more available? Note bene own national buyer says: I can order five times more but I don't, because we already have enough for the care. So why is that another argument? Second. If those things were supposed to be for the care, how is it that if I walk into Oss the HEMA, I can just buy those things? If you think it's so important that these things go to care, why haven't these things been bought up and given to the caregivers who still have to work unprotected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u190	Care has worked terribly hard to provide sufficient medical mouth caps. Martin van Rijn will go into this in a moment. He will also disprove the number of 60%. There's a different story to that. Of course, it is always possible that the HEMA in Oss or at the Bijenkorf in Rotterdam can also have medical mouth caps. We're not saying it's illegal. The Outbreak Management Team advises us that it doesn't really have that much added value there. What has added value is a non-medical mouth cap that prevents someone else from getting infected by you. The argument not to opt for a medical mouth cap but for a non-medical mouth cap is not the scarce one. The argument is that the opinion is to choose for this. That's what you see all over Europe. It's like the Netherlands is doing something crazy. No, the whole of Europe chooses to make non-medical mouth caps mandatory in public transport. Then there is also a question of scarcity, so we say: boy, if you can, leave those masks in Oss with the HEMA. That is what we say to an imaginary Mrs Marijnissen who wants to buy there. Millions of these things will soon be needed in public transport. So if everyone did, you'd run the risk of competing with care. That's what we're trying to prevent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u191	Yes, Mrs. Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u192	The Prime Minister refers to abroad, but I see nothing but those blue caps. I see that everywhere abroad people who simply wear. In fact, I believe that in Austria or so those things are being distributed for the supermarket. There they are provided free of charge. This is what our cabinet actually says: you can't use that on the train. Okay, you don't get a fine, but you're not supposed to be on the train with that, because they're for the care. My question still stands. One. If they're so badly needed in healthcare, why are these things with the HEMA and aren't they with our caregivers, if you think they belong there? Two. What kind of measure is it in the trains when we say: you have to wear a mouth cap that does not actually have a protective effect? That is the literal wording I believe: it must not have a protective effect, it must not have a CE stamp. Isn't that the way to create a false safety? Is that because the cabinet doesn't actually believe in it either? What's the deal with that? If there is scarcity, indeed, it was said just now, say so. But we hear from all sides that this scarcity would no longer be necessary if the cabinet were to buy much more rapidly. We've been on the road for so many weeks. It is crazy for words that caregivers still have to work unprotected now, whereas those things indeed you say yourself are just for sale in the shop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u193	At least at the HEMA in Oss. I'm gonna peel it off on his Wouter Koolmies. First of all... The advice of the Outbreak Management Team is to put on a non-medical mouth cap in public transport, because the 1.5 meter is difficult to maintain there. That reduces the spread of droplets from the person she has to someone else. We make them mandatory and you can find exactly the NEN standards on the website. If you buy them, you do not pay VAT. This is maintained on the train and also by the rotating enforcement teams in the cities at tram, bus or metro. So that's that part. On the advice of the OMT, this is an obligation in those cases where the 1.5 meter is difficult in public transport. In addition, we say to people: "Oh, do us a favor, then do this mouth cap and not a medical mouth cap, because that is not necessary and that is not the advice. If everyone did set that up, there would be a shortage. You're talking about millions of mouth caps here. At some point the HEMA in Oss is sold out. Then they go to the HEMA in Eindhoven and at some point it is sold out. Then there may be a moment when there is competition between medical mouth caps that Mrs Marijnissen and her family are buying versus the medical mouth caps that are needed in the care, where we are actually trying to control the problem of the deficit. That's why. It's not more complicated than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u194	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u195	The Prime Minister is now about as long of dust as Minister De Jonge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u196	This is an attack!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u197	And a frontal, but on the prime minister. That's usually a bad sign. I see that the Prime Minister is really trying to respond very seriously to all the questions raised by the Chamber, but it is not getting any clearer. I think that's because there are inconsistencies in the answer. It would be good if the Prime Minister could indicate that there may have been errors of assessment in the past, but that is something that is constantly ignored. Even when it comes to strategy. Look, we can talk about that for a long time. We can get lost in words. The most important thing is to say what it means in concrete terms that we are going to have maximum control. Are we talking about a few dozen infections, a few hundred infections we send on, or tens of thousands? When we talk about maximum control, how many infections do we say we're still in control? Then I'm talking about tens, hundreds or tens of thousands. It doesn't have to be exactly past the decimal point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u198	That's what De Jonge's gonna say. Let me just say one thing. You can't take out one number. You have to look at three things here. First of all, there's a complex set of numbers you need to look at. That's the spread of the virus, that R. You have to look at the pressure on care, both ic-beds and ordinary care. You need to look at the number of infections. That is not a figure that you can see in isolation and that says everything, because that also has to do with which groups and in what age cohorts that is. Also in the test policy we try to look at age cohorts and where these infections occur. In one age group this will put less direct pressure on care than in the other group. The second is that you have to place it in time. If you place it in time, then you also know that there is gradually more insight into how the virus spreads, whether there are effects of the time of the year, we all don't know that yet. So you have to consider that, too. Then there are a number of other factors, which are also in the schematic in the letter that has been sent, which you are looking at. Some of these must also be weighted in qualitative terms. In the end, this whole sum of all these data is also specifically qualitatively assessed by the Outbreak Management Team to see if it is possible to do further extensions or whether it is necessary to postpone an extension or to take specific national or regional measures. So you can't take out one number. I'm going to go on slippery ice by answering this question right now. I really think Hugo de Jonge should go into that in detail, because he has a whole stack of sheets in front of him. Otherwise, Mr Klaver is going to ask me something that I don't remember.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u199	I'm gonna get back to this. I can't imagine the Prime Minister having no answer to that. In theory, we could have 10,000 infections a day and still stay within the capacity of care. Then you might have about 35 shots on the ICUs. Then we'll just stay on track. The question I am asking is a qualitative question. Is that acceptable? Is that still under control? If there were 10,000 infections a day, we'd stay within the capacity that care can handle. Does this Prime Minister say we're in control? That is an important political question that I put to the Prime Minister, because he is responsible for the strategy that has been drawn up. There are questions about that. What does that mean? What's that look like? All I'm asking is for that to be operationalized. Make that clear. If 10,000 infections are....................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u200	You can never answer that question, because it also determines in which age cohorts these infections occur... I'm actually gonna repeat what I just said. Eventually, you have to see all those numbers in conjunction. There are two policy objectives. At maximum check you send on two indicators. Not only on hospital capacity, but also on protecting people with weaker health and elderly. Suppose that's where the number of deaths would increase. Then you really can't tell what number it's still acceptable at. We all feel like there's gonna be a moment when that's not acceptable anymore. So what if you had 50,000 Ice Beds and said, "Let it blow." Van Dissel said that 23 000 people would have been on the ice at the peak in April if we had chosen to completely abandon all measures. Of course, that would never have been accepted by society, because a third or a quarter of it would have died. So that's why you send on both protecting your elderly and people with weak health and hospital capacity. And within the hospital capacity on which numbers are all underneath. It's in the dashboard. You can't take out one number. You will have to look at them in conjunction and then have them qualitatively evaluated by virologists and epidemiologists.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u201	This in itself is a very clear answer: even with 10,000 infections you might still be in control. But that's pretty essential. That is why we are being asked about what this strategy is. 10,000 people infected... We know that not everyone will die of that and not everyone will be in intensive care. It's very important what that group looks like. What we already know about the people who have become ill is that the health problems these people develop take a long time. Even if they just get to the hospital and even if they have this, it takes a long time for them to recover. The health damage, for people personally but also economically, is enormous. So if you say "10,000 infections would be acceptable, given the exact group it has, how many deaths it causes and what the pressure is on hospitals," you just take a huge risk with people's health.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u202	Sure. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u203	And that's why it's very relevant to know what you're sending. Let me be very clear here: if you say "with 10,000 infections a day we're still in control"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u204	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u205	... I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u206	But that's not what I'm saying. I'm just saying, you can't put a hard number on it. Now it is as if I am taking over Mr Klaver's number and saying: 10,000 is fine. Of course not. That would be a tragedy, also for another reason. If you have that kind of large number of infections, the chances are that the virus is gonna spread under the surface very quickly and the R is gonna rise, life-size. We know you even at 200 beds on the ic and an R of 2.5... Hugo, after how many weeks do you have 8,200? You'll have 8,200 people on ice after 20 days. So with an R of 2.5 and 200 people on the ic you have 8,200 people on the ic after 20 days. So that would be a real tragedy. That's why you have to do everything in your power to control that maximum. I'm not gonna make that number my number. I'm just saying, the downside of that... Mr Klaver asks: what is acceptable? That's what I'm saying: you have to look at those numbers in conjunction. But it seems very unlikely to me that this kind of very high number of infections would ever be acceptable to control the virus.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u207	Finally, Mr President. "Talking like Brugman" I think about not too long in the dictionary "talk like Rutte." I'm not asking for an exact number. I find that no one here has asked for that. I'm asking you very clearly. Are they dozens? Are they hundreds? Is it about 1,000 or tens of thousands? The Minister does not even point in the direction of what it means to be in control, and that worries me. Because I want to hold on to what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u208	I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u209	I'm not asking for an exact number. That's impossible. We can't send for that. The Prime Minister really shouldn't put that in my mouth again. I'm asking what the order sizes are. What could be about it? Is it a few hundred, a few tens or a few thousand? That's what we're asking for, and as a cabinet, I think you can very well indicate what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u210	First, two things we're not going to conclude here. He calls 10,000, and I say that that's possible, but the answer from both of us is that we think that's crazy high. I think we're both saying that. Two. The point I'm holding is that you can't send on one number. I believe that Mr Klaver now recognizes that. He recognizes that, doesn't he? But I agree with him. You will eventually have to look at the signal values for each of the indicators, and that is also the next step in the development of the dashboard. What are about the bandwidths? Just what I want to warn you about is this. Suppose, for example, it says "on this number of infections this is the bandwidth." If you then come near that bandwidth, a measure should be taken, but that would be too simple. You have to look at what is happening below, how it relates to the other figures and what ultimately is the qualitative opinion of the virologists on that. What I want to warn you about is that you're pulling out one number and making it sacred. I'm not saying that Klaver says that, but he might say that; I don't know. Whoever thinks that would be unwise. That was the debate last time. You have to look at the numbers in conjunction. Two. You will eventually have to get signal values for each of the indicators on the dashboard and this is how Hugo de Jonge will explain them. The only drawback of this is that you will have it all again in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u211	The other point is that Members of Parliament are allowed to ask ten questions. I do not count all the questions that are said to be answered by Mr De Jonge, otherwise we will have no debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u212	That's good. Well, then it gets late!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u213	It will depend on the way in which I express myself and not on Mr Rutte not wanting to hear what I am saying. I did not say in the previous debate, and I did not say now, that there is one number on which you can send. That is what Mr Rutte has just said, but that is not what I am saying. But this is one of the indicators you need in that total set. It would be a credit to the Prime Minister if he did agree to the size of the order. If you can't report that, your strategy isn't complete. Well, then you've got a direction from where we're about to march, but then you've got nothing to send. And that's disturbing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u214	So we're in agreement. I didn't say that Klaver said, "Send on one number." But because he made the number of infections so large, that was the misunderstanding we had earlier in the debate. It's been taken away before. But for those who are following this debate, I would like to repeat once again that Klaver and I agree that you are not sending one number. Klaver never wanted to say that. It was at most a misunderstanding between us. Two. You obviously need signal values for those different numbers in the dashboard. We are now further developing them, refining them. Of course, we have some ideas. But we want to refine that, for example for the number of ic-beds, for the number of infections and so on. Next, in conjunction, you keep looking at how those numbers develop. You're giving a qualitative judgment on that, too. This leads to the question: do you have to intervene, do you have to postpone certain extensions, or do you even have to take regional or national additional measures? The goal is, in the end, to return to the objective of preventing the hospitals, where the people in care have worked terribly hard, from being flooded again, to working again at that peak and to delaying surgeries and to ensuring that you protect as many elderly people as possible with poor health. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to... Ah, I see Mr. Azarkan standing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u215	If I am correct, Mr. De Jonge will answer the questions about the dashboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u216	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u217	What that consists of...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u218	Yeah, absolutely. Then the young people and their ideas. As I said this afternoon in the press at the end of the Council of Ministers, I particularly hope that young people will say: this is what we are going to do. So not so much that they say: I have an idea and I dump it in an idea box. I used to hate the idea box at a company where I worked. Then someone had an idea, he put it in the idea box and then of course he was angry that the higher management was up there, who didn't do anything with it with those high salaries. All frustration, everyone angry and everyone dissatisfied. So what I love much more is that, if you have an idea, you simply implement that idea from the thought: saying sorry afterwards is much better than always asking permission in advance. I see Mrs Ploumen watching. I recognize the revolutionary that we both are. This is also evident from the fact that our political movements are rooted in the French Revolution, unlike that of Mr De Jonge, who is of course anti-revolutionary, in order to get back to that point from the first term. I am not going to appoint a coronage advisor, because I think that, I honestly say, is all becoming a bit too institutional. I'm gonna have as much conversation as I can myself. I'm organizing a first session at the Cat House with people telling me what they're doing. Maybe they come up with an idea, but I especially hope to hear things they already do. Other colleagues from the cabinet are going to do the same. Kajsa Ollongren already picked it up. I particularly hope that young people will bang on the door of the headmaster, of the board of the sports association, of community centers or of the city council. Especially in smaller municipalities that is hopefully a distance that is not too big. I am convinced that most of the drivers will then say, "Super that you do and that you are there. You're the future. We fall down once and you must take over." It is important that they help shape our society. Unfortunately, it seems that I was talking to Mr Wilders earlier about this subject for some time to come on the basis of those non-negotiable conditions. Those conditions are therefore not negotiable, not even for young people; they have to be negotiated in there. At the same time, yesterday, I wanted to express respect for how young people comply with the rules. I realize what a huge impact that is on their lives. Because if you're young and it's all hugely contained, if you can't play with your girlfriends or boyfriends two, three, four months, when you're under 10, or if you're over 10, you can't play with them, or whatever you do when you get older, then of course that has a huge impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u219	It is true that this corona crisis has a huge impact on young people, young people. That was the case with the closure of schools, and so are those who are now graduating and worried about their chances in the labour market. So I very much welcome the appeal of the cabinet to young people to think along. Indeed, we should not institutionalize it too much and it does not have to be very complicated and bureaucratic. I am thinking, for example, of the UN youth representative or the Minister for Disabled Persons, which is clearly pointed out and points of contact to ensure that it does not remain a pleasant, non-committal and one-off conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u220	No, I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u221	Because you can now start talking to young people in the short term about what that pinching one-and-a-half-metre society means to them and how we will ensure that you get as much freedom as possible in there. But today, the Prime Minister has actually called for young people to be revolutionary when it comes to the long-term impact of the corona crisis. Then my real request to the Prime Minister is to ensure that it is not only a one-time nice session at the Catshuis or a one-time nice conversation with the Minister of the Interior, but that the young people are really involved in the long-term measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u222	Yeah, we're gonna do it. But can I add something for the discussion? I think it's wonderful that we have young people's representatives from LAKS. It's great what she and everyone else are doing. But I hope that this will also reach young people who may not be active in LAKS or are young people's representatives, but who do have ideas. There is a vanguard of young people who are already in a political organisation, in a youth union, at LAKS, at LSVb or so on. Fantastic. All due respect. Bow! And come and talk to me and, above all, do things. But it seems so nice to me if we manage to especially mobile the very large group in the normal distribution that doesn't already sit here and does everything, but actually needs that push to say: "Yes, twisted. It's my country, not the land of Jetten and Rutte. I have to do it." I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u223	I fully support that call. Let us all see how, for example, with such a strong economic support package, we can really organise things smarter and greener for that future generation as well. I'm also making a call to us as Room. With the child questioning and the V100 we have seen a few times that if you fill this room with young people who may not normally have anything with politics, they can ask very disarming questions to the cabinet, which lead to new insights. So it's a challenge to pick that up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u224	And for under 12, I don't think we need to maintain that 1.5 meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u225	That might be a very inspiring example for the adults in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u226	Then we could lose 150, maybe. Maybe I'm making a medical mistake right now, but I thought you'd be able to fill up the room. Coalition-Y? Oh, yeah. I've had every experience with that. Much appreciated. That's what we're gonna do. I do not have much news other than Mrs Schouten's letter on the situation at the slaughterhouse that has been closed. It shall provide further information on this matter. I would therefore like to refer to that, otherwise I will speculate here; I simply do not know. It all just got out this afternoon. That establishment is closed. Follow-up action is now needed. She wrote to the Chamber about that, too. I have her letter right here. She says that together with Hugo de Jonge and Tamara van Ark, she will inform the Chamber as soon as more information is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u227	The Prime Minister won't get away with it that easily. I have pointed out that the Chamber has always been informed that nothing is going on. This morning we were informed of this in response to a set of questions that we have asked. And then the Minister of LNV had to inform the Chamber that German mayors insisted that testing be carried out in the slaughterhouses in the border region, where people work in the Netherlands and often live in Germany. That's why the G.D.D. went there to test it. This did not happen on the initiative of the NVWA, not on the initiative of the Netherlands Labour Inspectorate and not on the initiative of the Ministry of Labour of LNV. In this way it has been shown that 20% of the employees have corona there. And that's how the NVWA couldn't get out of shutting down that slaughterhouse. On 7 May the Chamber adopted a motion calling on the government to ensure compliance with the directives in slaughterhouses, because we know that things are not going well there. So the Prime Minister cannot say here: there is new information. Thank you the cuckoo, that's because outsiders insisted on it. The image that the Netherlands does not intervene itself is not present in the cabinet, the NVWA is not still standing, despite the motion adopted. So that's not going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u228	The task of the NVWA is to ensure that the slaughter is monitored. The NVWA is not there to check whether safe work is being done and whether, for example, the corona rules are being complied with. It is not up to the NVWA to do that; that is a matter for the Social Affairs Inspectorate. Now it has become clear that there is a dangerous circumstance there. The NVWA then withdraws the people and the company is then closed down. Further research is now being carried out in collaboration with the Social Affairs Inspectorate. Here's what I know now. I would like to know all the details of this case, but this is what I know about it. My request would really be to deal with this further with the Minister for Agriculture. This is a matter of this afternoon. I do not yet know exactly the history of it, but I assume the Minister will inform you further. In fact, that's what she wrote to the Chamber. As soon as the investigation is complete, the Chamber will be informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u229	No, it's not today's business, and it's not just the Agriculture Minister's business. This cabinet is about getting control of the virus. What do we all have to do to make sure we don't get fireplaces? The Party for Animals has already asked the Minister of LNV questions at an early stage. The Minister writes to the Court in March: if NVWA sees that the directives are not being complied with, it will stop the slaughter process. So it's very different. I ask the Prime Minister whether the Minister of the United States of America does not matter to me, but this is the core team that is being sent to the Chamber and to which we must be able to ask all our questions whether it is doing well to contain the virus. On its own, the Prime Minister or the Minister of the United States of America has never brought up the issue of slaughterhouses, which are actually very dangerous. I just want my questions answered. In fact, I want the Cabinet to do what it told the Chamber. Otherwise we will simply be misinformed. And I just want the cabinet to carry out the motion that was passed two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u230	Again, what I know is that the GGD did a sample, initiated by, among other things, the employees of this slaughterhouse. That sample shows that 20% of the staff of this slaughterhouse may have been infected. In such a case, the NVWA withdraws the staff. The slaughterhouse is also closed. There's been a report to the Department of Social Affairs. It's all being sorted out now, and then the Chamber will be informed. I don't know what else I can do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u231	I also notice that this is a bit of a dead end, literally. I note that the cabinet and the core team dealing with how we can control the virus do not have an independent interest in the fireplace that could well arise in slaughterhouses. We see it in the countries around us and it appears to be happening in the Netherlands as well. I think that's a bad sign. I would like to urge the Prime Minister to take a look at the information obtained from LNV in the Chamber, because that information has also led him to misinformed the Chamber two weeks ago. None of that is the way it's supposed to be. The Animal Party believes that the cabinet will have one more chance to restore this, because until now the Chamber has not been well informed about the great concerns that exist within the meat industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u232	I have no doubt whatsoever about the Minister for Agriculture and how she handles these matters. I have every confidence in that. Mr. Chairman. Then there were a number of questions about the package that was presented this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u233	Perhaps for Mrs Ouwehand: I think you know about the briefing next Monday. In any case, it is important that this is widely known.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u234	It is about the outbreak of mink breeding and the infection that took place there on humans. There is also the great concern about slaughterhouses.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u235	Yes. Mr. Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u236	First of all, I would like to add my voice to that last point. There's a debate request about the outbreak in those mink farms. That debate request belongs to D66. I can imagine that we are broadening this request for a debate, including to the slaughterhouses. Slaughterhouses in countries such as Germany and the United States are at the moment the contagion harbor. I think it would be a good idea if we could ask all the questions about that. I think the Prime Minister intended to leave my question on zoonoses to the Minister of Health, but I am going to ask the Prime Minister one question about it. The problem in the Q-fever crisis was that we there had made the Minister of Health and the Minister of Agriculture equally responsible for dealing with that zoonoses crisis. I've just looked up what's now on the website of the government. Then you'll get to this beautiful schedule. The Prime Minister won't know. I don't blame him for that either. It's a very complicated scheme with all kinds of arrows pointing at each other. When it comes to the decision-making in the case of zoonoses, it eventually ends with the block of "controllers." That is exactly the problem in the Q-fever crisis. It has always been put on the table with the Ministers for Health and Agriculture. They were different people then than they are now. They always didn't come out of there, so they didn't make the choice to put public health into one. So my question to the Prime Minister is: does he think that if a new zoonoses breaks out again, it is really up to the Minister of Health to decide?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u237	I think the VWS Secretary of State has perseverance if something like this happens. I see he's confirming this. In the extreme case, I will of course act personally, but that is not necessary. Because it's already taken care of. In the case of the Schouten-De Jonge couple it is not necessary, my expectation is, but there would be a conflict, then Minister De Jonge has perseverance. Mr Klaver has requested a debate on this afternoon's package. I could, of course, refer to that debate, but questions have been asked. So I am going to try to touch briefly on a few points about this afternoon's package. The first is, of course, the dismissal penalty. It may be important to note that, in the old situation, if an employee had been made redundant for business reasons, the employer's subsidy was reduced by that employee's wage plus an increase of 50%. That was the situation. Not only did the employer no longer receive the NOW, but in addition to the employee's salary, the additional fine was imposed. That storage was deducted from the allowance. In the new situation, only that storage lapses. The employer therefore still does not receive a NOW on the salary of the redundant employee. Within the NOW it is therefore still unattractive to dismiss an employee, because only the additional discount on the grant expires and all the rules of the dismissal right continue to apply. This means, among other things, that the UWV maintains the preventive dismissal test in business conditions. They're checking the firing procedure. They consider whether there was an economic necessity, whether the right employees have been nominated for dismissal and whether it is not possible to relocate the employee. The measures and the rules on the transition fee do not change either. The rules on collective redundancies also continue to apply. That's what I wanted to say so we know what we're talking about. I thought I heard a misunderstanding about that at some point. At first, there was the question of why this is necessary. I refer to the debate on the interruption which was held with Mr Dijkhoff. There is no employer in the Netherlands who thinks: oh, now I can fire my staff. Why would you want to do that? If things get better, then you have to hire those people again and then you have to train them again. Why would you do that? It may be that, now that the crisis is taking longer and companies do not have to rely on three, but perhaps six months, it is necessary to look very carefully: boys, if I want to keep this company alive right after the crisis, then I may not be able to keep everyone in service and then it will help me if I can ask people to apply somewhere else, with due regard for all the arrangements. That's why we're doing this. In the end, you want to keep as much employment as possible. The paradox of maintaining the discharge penalty is that you run the risk that companies will keep everyone in service and that, if the crisis gets a little less, the companies that will not make it after the crisis will not be in the size they now have because they have become too heavy, we can see that the whole economy is affected at the moment, in the worst case, to ask everyone to leave. You don't want that. You want to keep as much employment as possible. That's the purpose of this. Now I realize all the sensitivities. That is why there is very intensive consultation with the social partners. Those conversations aren't over yet. Those talks are still going on and they go further than Mr Asscher suggested, namely that you are only looking at companies that are threatened with bankruptcy. That's not the only thing. You are also looking at companies that have problems at all and that are not yet facing bankruptcy, but that may eventually find themselves in such a situation if they are not able to make adjustments to their workforce. Nobody wants that. Everyone wants to prevent it. Everyone wants everyone to be in orbit because of this crisis, but that is simply not possible. The aim is not to keep these companies alive. The aim is to maintain as much employment as possible. Finally, once again, the paradox is that the discharge penalty is maintained means that such adjustments cannot or will not be made at all, with the risk that after the crisis companies will be so weak that they will not be able to continue. We want to avoid that, and again, in close consultation with trade unions. Those conversations are going on, and we're going on with it. We hope, of course, that we will be a step further before the debate on the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u238	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u239	About the economic package? I've got a few more. I can do them right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u240	Maybe it's good to finish that first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u241	Do you want me to do that? There was a question about a gift and no loan to large companies. With the previous and current package there is a very wide range of schemes, both for large companies and for smaller companies. These are gifts, they are payments, and sometimes they are liquidity support. Then why not make the NOW for big companies a loan? It is a compensation for companies that have less turnover. You don't just catch up with that revenue later on, and that's why we think it's good to compensate for those costs, otherwise you run the risk that companies will be saddled with heavy loans when things get better. As a result, the impact can be so great that they still cannot make it because of these loans. I've been talking about the discharge. Then the partner test at the Tozo. This has been achieved because we believe that this system will be more standardized, more similar to assistance. It's a partner test. So not all the tests in the Participation Act are in there, but they are, and we think that this is a careful use of resources. Finally, flex workers. Of course there is provision for this too. The safety net is intended for people with a call or temporary employment contract who are not entitled to WW and cannot receive assistance. Many people with a call or temporary employment contract are entitled to WW. For those who do not subsequently end up in the assistance, there is a partner with income or there is capital. Otherwise, someone will be eligible for assistance. This benefit is therefore also lower than a benefit. Mr. Chairman. That's how I answered all the questions. I think all this will come back next week in the debate that Klaver van GroenLinks has requested.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u242	Then I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mrs Van Brenn and Mr Klaver. I also saw Mr Asscher and Mrs Ouwehand. In short, a whole list. Mrs. Marijnissen first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the cabinet is threatening to make a historic mistake here in crisis time. The Prime Minister referred to the trade unions, to the social partners. Well, the unions are blazing. They say about removing the fine on dismissal: that opening the locks for a mass discharge is a subsidy on mass dismissal. The Prime Minister argues here that when people are dismissed, the subsidy for the companies stops. Yeah, pretty weedy, I'd say. It would be very serious if the subsidy were to continue at the time when people are already being fired. I have a question for the Prime Minister. The cabinet intends to transfer billions to companies again. The Prime Minister says: "It's not about keeping those companies up, it's about maintaining employment." Then why does the Prime Minister allow it, even more so, to actively understand that companies receiving state aid can simply put their people out on the street?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u244	I just explained. The situation may arise that a company now keeps everyone in service, because it is fined by the NOW if it does not do so. If the company works in a sector or region, which at the same time provides that after the crisis its turnover will be significantly lower and the company will be much worse, then the company will be at risk of being unable to survive after the crisis. Everyone loses their jobs. That's a situation you're trying to avoid. At the same time, you want to ensure that the trade union movement is fully involved, for example through the notification of collective redundancies and through all the rules that apply to them. This is also the subject of the intensive discussion that Koolmees is having with employers and employees, with the social partners. It has not yet been possible to reach a common understanding. That's just a fact. But hard work is being done to see if we can come to a common understanding. The common objective of trade unions, employers, cabinet and I think of the whole Chamber is to maintain as much employment as possible. The paradox is: if you push this too hard now, which means that you can't fire anyone at all or only with a fine, then you run the risk that a lot more people will eventually be fired. That's the paradox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u245	That's the Prime Minister's paradox. I see that at the moment when the cabinet chooses to grant state aid to companies, but at the same time it says 'we understand it also if you put your people out on the street', the bill comes back exactly to those people who have made the profits of those companies over the past period and who have made it possible for our economy to flourish. We also see that there are sectors that are being disproportionately hit. If it's so bad with a company that it doesn't manage to keep everyone in service, you can do two things. You can start to support those sectors extra. That could be an idea. You can count on our support. Or you say we have to find somewhere else a place for someone; we have to retrain to another form of employment. You'll do that first, won't you? Then you're not gonna put very antisocial people out on the street, throw them into benefits and insecurities, and then tell them to retrain to something else? That's not the intention of this arrangement, is it? If that's the case, you're gonna solve that problem with people, aren't you? Then you're not gonna put them on the street first, are you? Why doesn't the Prime Minister choose to do that when he's transferring billions to the companies?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u246	This will, of course, be the case in many cases. A lot of employers do that. In almost all companies, especially in large companies, there are social plans that provide for this. So that's what's gonna happen. I'm absolutely convinced of that. But Mrs Marijnissen here oddly suggests that apparently a lot of companies are waiting for a chance to fire a lot of people. For starters, they have all the usual costs they make. The whole right of dismissal will continue to apply. Why would a well-functioning company fire someone if it knows that after the crisis it needs everyone again? So it's about those companies. The trade union movement must have a very heavy role in this, such as the trade union movement which normally has, especially in the case of redundancies above 20. Then the legislation on collective redundancies applies. Most of the time, there are social plans. The works council has a role in this. Koolmees' conversations with the trade movements are also about how you can organize that test well. But in the end, doesn't a company have any interest in saying goodbye to people who need it again after the crisis? You have to recruit and train these people again. You've got to invest a lot. Why would you do that? But there are indeed companies that are having a hard time. You're also trying to support specifically. That is what we do with all the regulations that are in place, amounting to 13 billion. We support from ornamental cultivation and potato potato to catering and the cultural sector. We support the Dutch economy and society on a very broad front. That's what I'm supposed to do. Luckily, we've built up that little apple for thirst to do the same thing. But once again, there may be companies that say: if I hold everyone, after the crisis, I run the risk that I will not be able to hold anyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u247	I think it's unbelievable. It is either a very naive story that the Prime Minister keeps here, but I think he knows damn well that in the last few weeks, while the discharge was still there, thousands and thousands of people have already been thrown out. So the question "why would an employer do that?" is not only naive, but is very inappropriate after all those tens of thousands of people who have already been thrown out of the street in the past period, while that fine was still there. So instead of thinking "we're gonna solve that, we're gonna continue with the support, but we're gonna make sure everyone stays in service," the cabinet now says: no, we're gonna open the door for even more layoffs. There's no logic to that, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u248	Yeah, if you put it that way, I don't say it that way. I say that I think we want the same thing, namely to keep as many jobs as possible. For this, however, it is necessary for companies that are already really sure not to make it in this size after the crisis, no matter how much support you give them, to be given the opportunity to apply very decently, within all the rules that exist, to someone else. Unfortunately, this will also be necessary in order to maintain as much employment as possible after the crisis.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u249	Thursday has been allocated all day to this issue. Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u250	The question is: why are the mp and this cabinet going to make a general arrangement for special cases? I think everyone understands that all jobs are gone if a company goes bankrupt. You can make an exception in that case, can't you? Then why do you make a general rule that everyone doesn't have to get a discharge when you say: let's do it for those specific cases, in consultation with the union? Isn't that different?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u251	That was Asscher's proposal to Dijkhoff. However, you want to avoid that situation of bankruptcy. You want to keep companies from getting into that situation. If that were the only thing, Asscher's proposal to Dijkhoff would be correct. What you want, of course, is to prevent companies from going into such a bankruptcy situation. You want to prevent companies that were good before the crisis from saying the following. We are sure that in our sector, however it goes, we will have 10% to 20% less turnover after the crisis. We won't be able to hold everyone anymore. If we get out of the crisis right away and everyone is still working here, we are sure that this will be such a problem for our continuity, that we could go to bankruptcy. Because then you've lost all the people in that company. So it's not so much about threatening bankruptcy now. It's about those situations where you want to give companies the chance to make those adjustments. Again, in my opinion, these companies have no interest in firing someone they need again after the crisis. They need to recruit and train them again. Moreover, most companies are good, and even if they were bad, they still have no interest in it. If they are good, what most do, then there is also a personal connection with the staff. So why should they fire people who need them again after the crisis, and who in many cases have become a kind of family?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u252	It bothers me that the mp says: then they will have to start training people again. Why can't we make a deal right now by saying the following? When a company is very difficult and has to say goodbye to people, they usually do so in a reflection principle, with all kinds of different age categories. Then why can't the same people get a voucher, like for example in the travel industry, which you were in favour of, that they can get their jobs back if things go well, with the same conditions of employment? Couldn't it be?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u253	You mean at the same company?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u254	Sure, you could if things were going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u255	Those are all creative ideas. Perhaps you have found the solution to resolve the conflict we still have with the trade union movement. However, I cannot see that now. Mr Koolmees is listening. Maybe the Van Brenk solution is Columbus' egg. I can't see that. However, the fact is that you want to prevent companies from making that kind of adjustment now. Mrs. Van Brenk says, could you get some kind of right to return? I really can't see that right now. For that, I don't control all the details of the NOW at the moment. I think that's something for next week's debate. In any case, I will make sure that Mr Koolmees hears the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u256	We'll make sure he hears it on Thursday. However, we had the Prime Minister's warm words about young people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u257	I'll be with the elders in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u258	Yes, fine, but especially the young people are extremely affected, because the flex workers are especially young people. We have just drawn attention to this and asked whether it would be possible to extend the WW measures for this purpose. The Minister says that they will all receive compensation under the NOW 2 scheme. There has already been a reaction from the national student union. The union says: yes, but at least you have to earn at least $500. For a student, €400 is also very much. Why are we talking about such measures now? Why can't we just deliver customized work, especially for these people, the flex workers who have already been so badly damaged?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u259	Customisation is impossible in execution. We're talking about huge numbers. They run either through the UWV or through the municipal social service or through RVO, the execution organisation of Economic Affairs. Customization is incredibly difficult, because the numbers are so huge. Fortunately, I note that a lot of the money has been spent on the people who needed it, by making it as simple as possible. Specifically for flex workers, most are naturally entitled to WW and otherwise in almost all cases assistance, unless the two tests in the assistance exclude them from the assistance. We cannot reach everyone with these arrangements; it is simply not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u260	Warm words for young people, but a lot of young people are now just empty-handed. The question is what this cabinet will do for them. Then why the border at €500, why not at €400, why not €300. That's a lot of money for students, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u261	Again, you have to make choices in such a package. We did. All limits in the package are arbitrary. We had to put down a bazooka in no time to keep the economy going. It is inevitable that people will be really affected by this crisis. This is now happening on a very large scale; we also see this in the figures. The fact is that our economy is currently going through quite a contraction. There is. The predictions are rather dramatic for the economic contraction due to the corona crisis this year. With these measures, you hope to do everything you can to prevent this from being a long recession, but to get back on the way up as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u262	My last question. When people get unemployed, it's really dramatic for a family. That affects people very deeply. The chance of new work at the moment is very disastrous. The question is: why can't this cabinet extend the WW period, so that people at least retain those rights and that, when the economy returns, they really get a fair chance of getting a job?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u263	We are now doing a lot with the whole package that was rigged in March and with what we are doing now, including the extra measures for companies, up to €20,000. These companies are now faced with all kinds of specific issues in their costs, otherwise the threat of bankruptcy. Think of the catering business. We are all taking crucial steps, but somewhere, of course, you have to draw limits to keep as many jobs as possible. But that's not always gonna work. Take your point. If you take a higher amount with the flex, it is more likely that someone who has had a smaller job in terms of earnings will suddenly receive a higher amount in the case of unemployment than he has earned in the case of work. That goes against the principle that working must pay. That all creates problems of that kind. It's not that easy, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u264	I've got a whole list. Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan, but apparently he no longer needs to interrupt, Mr Jetten, Mr Asscher. I see that you have agreed among yourselves that Mr Asscher will come first and then Mr Jetten. Mr. Klaver for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u265	The contrast is so great. When questions are asked about flex workers and about dismissal, you get an answer that it must all be measured. Imagine a flex worker getting just $200 more than he deserved before the corona crisis. We really shouldn't have that. But if I ask whether it would not be reasonable for large companies, if they were to make profits again in the future, to repay their loans, then the Prime Minister says: well, we can't just ask them to do so; we'll put them up with a big debt. I'm looking at Booking.com. Before the crisis, that company made 5 billion profits. 5 billion! I do not think that I would feel very sorry for this company if, if things were to go well again, even if they had 20% turnover losses, the contribution of the government, their loan, had to be repaid. That would also give us as a government room to perhaps do a little more for those people with flex jobs, even if they got something more than they were supposed to do. Then perhaps we could do more for that cultural sector. I really don't understand why this Prime Minister is saying: these big companies, they're going to be burdened with incredibly high debts. We're talking about companies with billions of profits. When they come back, we kindly ask: would you please pay back? Then the people who earn their living in the Netherlands in the care, in the fire department, in the police, in those companies, do not have to pay for those companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u266	But first of all about the flex workers, because it seems as if they all fall out of the boat. The vast majority of flex workers are either affected in a positive sense or... They are, of course, affected in a negative way, but when that happens, they are entitled to WW and assistance. And if they don't, they don't, but most of them do. The height we choose is in line with the group we are dealing with. The amount chosen corresponds to approximately 70% of the average wage of the call force. With this you will find the largest group of flex workers outside WW and assistance. That's about the flex regulation, because it's really generous in my opinion. The companies. I can also come up with a company like the one Mr Klaver mentioned here, but I am not going to repeat the name here, because I think we should avoid talking about specific companies that can easily repay it. There will be. Absolutely! But in our absolute conviction, most of the companies will be weakened out of this crisis. That's just a fact. Not all companies have this kind of huge profits. It just isn't. So a lot of companies will be weakened out of the crisis. If you made a loan out of it, that blow will come back to those companies later. If you're not careful, they're still gonna have to get rid of jobs because they're gonna have to pay back that loan. That's a really big problem. It's not like I'm thinking, "I want to give these companies money." Not at all! I prefer to give them as little money as possible, but you need it because you want to keep as many jobs as possible. If you do what Mr Klaver proposes, you run the risk that companies will eventually not be able to pay back that loan and will still have to fire people. And that's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u267	Now the Prime Minister pretends that the government is some shady lender, who eventually returns to such a company and says: no matter how you are, you have to pay back. I've set a very clear line. This is about large companies and not about SMEs, because it would have a very serious impact on most of them. Looking back at the figures after the 2008 crisis, it appears that a year after the outbreak of the crisis, the large business was going to make significant profits again. That's the group of companies I'm talking about. Then we can also agree with each other that we are not going to force companies if they come out of that crisis so weakened that they cannot repay it. Of course, we are not going to force these companies, because we are talking about maintaining employment. But my position is that of those big companies, which have refused to pay taxes in recent years, because they almost all do tax avoidance, and who now hold hands with the government... When these companies made huge billions of profits again, they paid them to their shareholders, so they now have nothing in their pocket to pay out their employees themselves. And we couldn't ask them to pay back their fair share after the crisis? That is unjust! This Prime Minister knows very well who's going to have to pay the bill. Someone's gonna pay this bill. The bill will end up with ordinary people differently, and we must avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u268	That Piketty rhetoric I see again in a report by the GroenLinks Congress, I would say. Let's get back to the facts. I think Mr Klaver could have a point in himself when you talk about very large companies that need support. We sent a letter to the Chamber about that, too. These are very large individual companies and a balancing framework has been sent to the Chamber. There is customization possible. Then you can also set conditions for a contribution that is expected from other stakeholders. That's where it could be. But the NOW is meant for smaller companies and medium-sized companies. Sometimes they are larger companies. But if very specific very large companies need support, then stakeholders can also be asked for a contribution. That is also in our assessment framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u269	We need more Piketty and the Cabinet should understand this. The Prime Minister may sigh, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u270	You can't want jobs and hang Piketty. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u271	I think we have the problem of this cabinet here in a nutshell. If we have learned one thing from the crisis, if we have learned one thing, that is that the people with the greatest abilities have come out best. Those are the big multinationals whose profits have increased very quickly and they have hardly been paying taxes in recent years. That is the lesson of the previous crisis. That's Piketty's lesson. If the cabinet says, "I can't, because we'll lose jobs," I say, "this is where things go wrong." If we don't do this, if we're not prepared to let the capitalists pay, whether it's the people with the huge assets, the billionaires here in the Netherlands, whether it's the big multinationals, then this Prime Minister will be coming back to all those ordinary people in the Netherlands, including those who work in care. He will then have to say, "Yes, we are in very bad shape with our public finances, because we have tried to save companies. We need to put public finances back in order. We're gonna raise taxes. We're going to cut back on the public sector, because somewhere that money has to come from." And let's be very clear, if I have to choose where that money comes from, I'm 100% sure I'm gonna make it to those big companies, those millionaires and those billionaires. They can afford it and the ordinary people can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u272	This is real populism. We have companies in the Netherlands, companies where a lot of people work that are extremely important for our economy. We know that millions of jobs depend directly or indirectly on our larger companies. If you put all those companies away as pocket fillers that all make millions and billions of salaries, I find that so flat and easy. I'm really putting that aside. I'm going back to the core. If Mr Klaver says here that he wants the cabinet to look at the contribution of other stakeholders in case of support for large companies, I say yes. That's in our balance sheet. If he asks to arrange that in the NOW, I say we don't. That makes this NOW impossible, plus that in general you have to prevent your companies from being burdened with loans. Most of those companies don't ask that NOW for nothing. They are already weaker and many companies will also emerge weaker from the crisis. But let us avoid throwing that whole business, all these big companies here at the big dirt. One last point about these larger companies. You and I, Mr. Clover, now have extra money in the wallet. All the burdens arising from the crisis are now gone for us and we are already getting more salary net than before the crisis. That doesn't apply to the companies. There is still a net burden increase in relation to the crisis. That too is a fact. We have to discuss everything here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u273	I look forward to next week's debate, because then we will discuss more. Yeah, we might have gotten a little more to spend. But for a lot of people, ordinary people, costs have risen even more. I am not concerned about you or about me; we have nothing to complain about. I'm talking about the people who work in healthcare.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u274	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u275	I'm talking about home-care workers trying to get above a tenner an hour. That's where I care. You're so up for these big companies. I see the passion with which you defend them when you say we shouldn't put them away as crooks. Sorry, but if you made 5 billion euros last year's profit, 5 billion! But you didn't do what all those family businesses I know did, all those barbers, all those catering companies that keep the money in their business, doing everything they can to keep their people, so you have to put your hand in the government now, something goes wrong. And you can make an exception in that NOW scheme. You can demand that the largest companies, that are not super many, eventually pay it back later. The beauty of paying back later is that you have at least two to three years to work out that whole scheme, to work out how you're gonna do it. But it must be clear: if you hold your hand with the government so that you can make billions of profits and give it to shareholders, you will pay it back nicely; not because we hate you, but because it is just, because we do not want ordinary citizens in this country to pay the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u276	I have already said that aid to large companies is tailor-made. We sent the balancing framework to the Chamber. It is foreseen that a contribution can be requested from other stakeholders. So that's where we can meet. I'm just objecting to the following. Let me give you one example, one enterprise. I will not repeat the name, because that company cannot defend itself here, but say that Mr Klaver would be right. I find it really populist to say that it is symptomatic of the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u277	Last time, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u278	Does the Prime Minister deny that a year after the outbreak of the crisis the entire AEX-listed companies, all of them, have just started to make profits again? That profits rose very quickly and much faster than they did before the crisis? Those are just the facts. Those are the facts and if the Prime Minister does not want to acknowledge that, he will live in the time before 2008. So he really keeps thinking that these companies are going to save our society and keep our economy running. We didn't clap for big companies. We didn't clap for CEOs. We did that for the people who work in care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u279	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u280	For the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u281	And the big companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u282	They paid, they paid... Yeah, sure, for people at the big companies. For the people...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u283	Millions of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u284	For the people who work in the distribution centers. For them we clapped.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u285	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u286	And if we don't get those shareholders to pay, if we don't get it from the big companies that are going to pay back their loans, do you know who's going to do it? Those people in the distribution centers. Those people in care. The government's spending money now. The debt could rise. That's not a problem for the short term. But one day we're gonna have to pay this back. I remember a young Mark Rutte. It's been a while since it was here in the Chamber when Balkenende was prime minister. He talked about how we should be ready for the economic crisis. But that wasn't the cabinet. And it seems that you are not ready for this economic crisis that is coming and that the weakest shoulders in society, in fact the majority of people, are simply going to pay the price for this crisis. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u287	Well, we're in a huge economic problem right now. I do not know if we can already put the word 'crisis' on it, but what we are experiencing now is, I think, very serious. I think we just put in a three-month support package and another 13 billion support package. I do not think Mr Klaver can blame the cabinet for not doing anything. We do so with the support of the Chamber, including Mr Klaver and others, and that is very much appreciated. The discussion we are having here is how to maintain employment, because that is the goal. I insist that if you take out one company in such a way and say that with it all those companies where a lot of people work and have a job in distribution, the mailroom and you name it, up to and including the management floors are wrong and not right, I find that flat. I think that's populism. Again, we agree that if large individual companies receive support, there is a possibility of tailor-made work. There is a framework for this. Then we're going to appeal to the stakeholders as well. We'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u288	Your last question, Mr. Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u289	Then Mr. De Jonge gets it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u290	You weren't ordered for nothing, were you? Mr. Wilders is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u291	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u292	Mr President, you can tell me, but not the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u293	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u294	The cabinet is playing with fire now. The cabinet is playing with fire by proposing in the middle of an economic crisis to transfer 13 billion in aid and remove the threshold for dismissal. I warn the Cabinet: many thousands of people will lose their jobs. You can prevent that and you can find another solution. This is gonna hit thousands of people. We have already seen today that I cannot convince the VVD, Mr Rutte's party. He thinks it's wise, but I think this is a tragedy in the personal life of a lot of employees who have no alternative. But he also chooses to take the risk that at this crucial moment in the crisis you will lose the support of the Labour Party, the FNV and other parties that stand up for employees, while we will need each other very much in the coming time, in the polder, in the Chamber and in society, precisely because the voice of the workers has to be heard. The Prime Minister says we're still talking. I ask him whether that is a theoretical conversation or a conversation in which people are listening, but also in which they are being humiliated. Or is it conceivable that the outcome of that discussion is, therefore, I would like to ask the question now, on the way to next week, that the dismissal threshold, referred to by him as a fine, in any form, if necessary, will return to the NOW 2 package? It's important to know if there's any point in talking to this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u295	That is, of course, a false question. I am just saying that we are convinced that the dismissal penalty in this form must come out and that we are talking about it with the trade union movement to see if you can choose a form of how it will work in practice with the companies, so that it is also possible for the trade union movement to support it. Those conversations aren't over yet. On the contrary, the trade union movement is critical of this; that is perfectly clear. Those conversations continue. I am convinced that we can bring it to a successful conclusion, because it is important to achieve both, namely that the dismissal penalty in this form will not continue and that at the same time we will have the support of the trade union movement and also like to be broad in the Chamber. Mr Asscher raises a question like that: if this is not possible with the trade union movement, are you prepared to withdraw the dismissal penalty? That is, of course, a question that is not answered here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u296	You can call it an improper question. But the moment you say "we're talking," it's important, even for the trade union movement, which isn't critical but morally opposed, to know whether you're making up your mind or whether you're saying, "I'm really talking to you guys," and we're using that week. I want to hear from the Prime Minister the following. Is it an open conversation where you do not adopt it as an iron law, but are also willing to listen to the others? Or is it a conversation: we explain it again and we invent a cloth for the bleeding? That's a choice, that's not a what-if question. That is what is happening now that the trade union movement has to decide whether to table with this center-right cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u297	Mr Asscher is making a choice here which, of course, is not real. Both of them don't add up. You don't go into a conversation with cast into concrete: only this can be the outcome. Of course, you don't do the other thing either. That's not how you talk. Nor did Mr Asscher. Mr Asscher and I negotiated social plans and agreements together. If you went into a conversation like that, we would never have made a social agreement. Mr. Chairman. There were a few more questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u298	I have another question about the emergency measure on bridging employment. The first package has chosen to reimburse up to €9,500. Employers who were able to demonstrate that they saw sales fall completely, received 90% of the salary up to €9,500. Is that the same in the second package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u299	I'll have to check it out. I don't have that ready right now. I want to make sure I'm not going to freestyle now, so I'll come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u300	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u301	And I would like to ask the answer: I have not yet received the answer to the question as to when the talks with the municipalities on the neighbourhoods and village houses have been completed. That is a question through you, Mr President, to the officials. I now have two things for the second term: an answer to Mr Heerma's question about the neighbourhood and village houses, because that has not yet arrived and an answer to Mr Azarkan's question. Finally, I have a few final points. The AIV opinion is in. We're gonna respond to it as soon as possible. I cannot now guarantee that this will be possible for the next debate in the Chamber. We will do everything we can and try to get it done for the next parliamentary debate, but no guarantee. Then there's the Social and Cultural Planning Office. Where does inequality come from? Can the cabinet ask how that went in this crisis and how it can be dealt with? The SCP has published regularly over the last few weeks about the consequences of this corona crisis and will continue to do so in the near future. The day before yesterday, on May 18th, View of society appeared in corona time. It explicitly focuses on inequality and social cohesion. In doing so, the SCP warns against the risks of social inequality that this crisis has. These risks are also seen by the cabinet; they are also addressed. In a broader sense, the SCP regularly publishes about inequality, also independently of corona. The RIVM also specifically examines the question of whether there would be more mortality among immigrants than among indigenous people, as Mr Azarkan pointed out. I'm getting to the horizontal clause in the covid law. The intention is to make the law a temporary instrument. There will therefore be an end date in the law with the possibility to extend the law. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn also asked to say something about the elderly in the Netherlands. I am happy to do so, because I realize that I am going back to my TV speech on 16 March, that older people and people with weaker health have been particularly anxious and in many cases still are. They've been scared and sometimes they've been scared. Fortunately, the spread of the virus is now less, but they have been very afraid that they can get it. To this day, this continues, because they know that its consequences can be potentially large. That is why we are doing everything we can to protect the elderly in the Netherlands and people with weaker health. Two. I realize that one of the measures we have taken, namely closing the nursing homes to prevent the virus from spreading, has a huge impact on people's lives. The quality of life is health, but the quality of life is also the contact with children, grandchildren, friends and family. There are very tragic examples of people, perhaps demented, who say "my husband recognizes me as soon as I open the nursing home," "my wife still recognizes me" or in some cases have missed that contact. I am very pleased that it is now possible through experiments and the scaling-up of this up Hugo de Jonge will perhaps say more about this in order to organise more opportunities there. But I also want to say a third thing. Yesterday I addressed the young people in the Netherlands because they are the future. But the special thing about our elders is: if there is a group in the country that has a lot to offer in terms of life experience and understanding of life, then it is the elderly. I hope that, if society can instantly function a little bit more normally, it will be able to transfer its insight, experience, knowledge and wisdom to the younger generation, perhaps on those 1.5 metres unfortunately. If I may then once again address the young people, I hope that in all the plans they are now making and converting into action they also hear how they are seeking dialogue with the elderly. I once had a meeting in my previous job with the management of that company in Asia. The boss of that company in Asia was a very wise Indian. She was a little older. It was already at 70. This man from India said: I want to hear the young first. So he had the kids on the team do the story and at the very end he got to the talking. The magic that comes into being in a circle of pebble today at 1.5 meters, but then we sat closer together 30, 40 people, where everyone tells why he works at the company, how he sees the future and how he connects his personal future with the company, and then finally hears the wisdom of such an older man with all the experience he has, who came from the lowest caste in India, could not make a career in the company because of the caste system and therefore had made a career in that company outside of India, and all the stories and life experience that this man had to tell; then you see everyone quietly, listening and sharing that experience. So that's the third thing I want to say: that young people realize that we have a wealth of experience in the elderly in this country and that I hope they will take advantage of it, and that these elderly people are willing to pass on that experience. I would like to say this in response to Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u302	Thank you. Then I'll suspend the meeting for two minutes. Then there can also be a change.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u303	I give the floor to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u304	Mr. Chairman. I would like to divide my answer into a number of cubes, of course. It's a tradition you have to want to keep in mind. Then I'll start with the questions related to the dashboard. Then the questions related to testing and source and contact research. Then vulnerable people, among others in nursing homes, and then a small block of varia. I'll try to limit myself. That is also possible, if only because the Prime Minister has turned out to be the Minister of all matters rather than the Minister of General Affairs. There was some robbery of bread. I think we can establish that. I'll start with the questions about the dashboard. It has been rightly said: if you want to stay in control, you also need to know what you're steering on. Some of you have rightly underlined this. If you look at the numbers we've had up to now, then many of those numbers were actually a description of the situation that took place a few weeks ago. Between infection and ic-recording is on average about two and a half weeks. We've heard a lot about Ic recordings. We sent daily on NICE's website, but it's about an infection that happened two and a half weeks ago. This means that we will have to have more numbers in the picture if we are to be able to steer properly if we are to have an early and targeted recovery of the virus. A number of numbers, a number of indicators, we have mentioned. First the main indicators, which can be counted: the number of ic-intakes and the average number of hospitalisations one day. We also have the test results. Especially when we start testing everyone, the test results are also an important indicator of how the virus is spreading. We also have a number of indicators in those main indicators that we can calculate on this basis: the R and the number of infectious persons at any time. In order to be able to interpret these figures correctly, you also have more indicative indicators, which are particularly relevant for the RIVM. These are the self-reporting data, the data of the general practitioners, the results of the GGD contact studies, the sewage water surveillance and the sentinel surveillance among healthcare staff. These are very relevant and they are often somewhat earlier at the RIVM than you could achieve on the basis of the test results. So it is relevant to get that data earlier and to be able to point out it earlier. Once again, you should also have a number of data that are more about early warning. That's what the location data, for example, we talked about last time. The use of that location data will soon be subject to an emergency law in the direction of the Chamber. They warn you in advance and in the long run, after you have filled that dashboard completely, you can learn: if we see this now in the numbers, we'll probably see that happen at the test board and we'll probably see that happen later at the hospital beds. That's how it's gonna work. The right follow-up question is of course: if all these indicators are available, if you have all those meters and indicator lights on your dashboard, what are the signal values? From what point do you start to worry? That is what Mr Klaver's question was about, and that is a very fair question. We have put that question to the RIVM to work with us on this over the next few weeks. When setting the signal values, we will eventually ask the OMT for advice. The objectives of our strategy have not changed: how do we best protect vulnerable people and how do we prevent them from becoming overburdened? But the signal values that should lead to such control so that you don't compromise those targets, you have to graft properly on them. Let me give you an example. We now have an influx of about five new ICU patients one day. We spent a long time on around ten ICU patients one day. Imagine, as a math example, that you have structurally ten ICU patients one day. The average duration of the occupation of an ic-bed is 21 days. In the long run, you'll have a structural ic occupation of about 210. Can we handle that? Yeah, we can handle that the moment we structurally increase the ic capacity. But we have also seen what it does with care when the ic capacity needs to be scaled up very quickly. This means that other care needs to be scaled down. This is very important for care, not only for the staff on the ICUs, but also for patients who need hospital care for other diseases, ailments and conditions. So you have to avoid getting another one of those peaks where you have to scale up in such a short time. Is ten a day a good number to establish? You can only say yes to that when you also know how that relates to other numbers. We know from the experience data that 10 on the ic is approximately equivalent to 40 in the normal hospital beds. That's doable. That's what you can absorb in hospitals if you structurally expand the covid capacity for that. And then you have to look at this again; we really need to learn that. If you test everyone and we really hope that this can be done in June, how do the results of those tests relate to the hospitalizations and to the ic-recordings? Then you have to develop the good signal values for the R and the infectious persons on this basis. The R isn't that complicated, because the R is actually already a defined signal value, which is below 1. That is important, but it really only gets meaning in relation to the total number of infectious people. You can now use the following rule of thumb: the number of ic patients times 350 to 500. Then you can estimate the total number of infectious people. What I'm doing now is using the numbers that are currently used in the conversations between the RIVM, the Ministry and the people who are members of the Outbreak Management Team. But I think it is important to establish these signal values with each other much more precisely, in such a way that we know and learn better and better: if we look at the figures available to us in this way, we always know when to stand on the brakes on time. When it comes to 11 or 12 on the ICU, I don't think you're gonna panic right away. You will always have to look at an average inflow per day or, for example, at an average inflow over the last three days. You could do that. If that climbs quickly, you will assume in the long run that a week earlier, at least a week earlier, you have actually seen that wave coming. That's how it's supposed to work. So we hope that earlier in time, on the basis of early warning data, we will then learn more and more on the basis of the supporting indicators that can be defined particularly at RIVM and then on the basis of the hard-to-count indicators, think about the test data, hospitalisations and ic-recordings: if you see this happening here, you will know that you will be there in a week's time. You hope to be able to apply it regionally. Knowing the number of regional ic placements does not make much sense, because they are often above-regional placements. With ten a day, it's less than one in a region a day. So that doesn't make much sense. Knowing the number of hospital admissions makes more sense. In particular, it makes sense to know what the test results are per region, but also to know what they are per age cohort. That's what you want. Because if you know that, it's much better to analyze how high the level of infection is in that region. It must work in such a way that, in the long term, regional measures can be taken. So, as far as I'm concerned, that dashboard has to work in such a way that you know from what signal values you have to intervene from, so either you have to intervene or you have to take measures, that you know you have to take measures, because you're analysing where it goes wrong, and also that you know where to take those measures in which regions is it relevant to start braking now? This is because you know that otherwise there are more and more above-regional spread. Is that gonna work to keep the virus completely contained, so we never get some kind of second wave? No, we can't say that like that. We also know that most infections are just happening under the radar. Approximately 0.35% of the infected persons end up on the ic. That's very little. Hence the sum of times 350, which you can use as a rule of thumb. That's an arithmetic assumption, a static assumption; that's calculated. But you know on the basis of that, that most of the infections are happening under the radar. So I do hope that everyone who suffers from infection will eventually report to the testing board, but I am also quite sure that this will not be the case, because a lot of people have such mild complaints that they will hardly experience that they have complaints. Of course, we are going to campaign well; I will explain this in a moment. Of course, we're going to invite people as much as possible to stay home with complaints and get tested. But we know that we will always miss a large part of that reality, because there are infections that just happen under the radar. That's the downside of this virus. We shall be coming back to the Chamber in a not too long time, I hope, by a few weeks, with an effect on the signal values. That's what we're gonna be working on in the next few weeks. Based on these signal readings, I can better indicate how that model is going to work. In addition, we will come back with the development of a regional alert system. I believe that this is of added value in order to see whether the measures can be taken as regionally as possible. Public advice could therefore also apply. Suppose in a region the level of contagion is high. Then you can take not only measures that fit in, but also a regional advice, saying: "If you're going to stutter, don't do it in that region. Stay out of that region; don't go there unnecessarily." Or: "Surely stay at home in that region as much as possible. Avoid becoming part of the transmission of that infection." So we can steer more and more focused and faster. That's what that dashboard's supposed to do. But there is a lot of work in progress. It has been said before, actually by everyone: it will never be one number, one simple number, to send. It's really a little too complicated for that. You can actually see that in a lot of foreign countries being dealt with in the same way. That is actually an answer to most of the questions asked. Mr Segers said: it does not necessarily get easier with so many meters and warning lights and so on. That's right. But it's not that easy either. You have to have the numbers all in view and weigh them all integrally. And based on that, you need to be able to make a good analysis to know what's going on and where to intervene. But how do we make that dashboard accessible? Actually, because of what I just said: by sharing as close as possible and as transparent as possible. I was asked this morning at the meeting of the Council of Ministers: are you not afraid that people are going to make the wrong conclusion on the basis of those figures? I guess, frankly, I don't. Of course, you've seen that in the last few weeks, everyone has turned out to be the best union coach on the couch. Everyone has become the amateur virologist; so have we. But that's okay. Let's try to understand what the doctors are talking about as best we can. That's very good. That, I think, is also important to make our decisions followable. So it is up to us to make it as follow-up and insightful as possible. On the contrary, I invite people to learn about this and to have their views on it. I think that would simply help, by the way, to support the policies you are pursuing and the measures you are taking. I come to Mr Azarkan's question: do we comply with privacy laws? The answer is yes, of course. In doing so, I think I have answered the questions in this block, knowing that the work is in progress and that we will come back. Then the questions about the source and contact research and testing. The testing was a long time ago more of a diagnostic approach. That is the way we use diagnostics in the Netherlands: you do a test to know what medical action perspective is there. Therefore, the testing target group was very focused on vulnerable people. That has been the primary test target group from the beginning, also knowing that your test is in scarcity. We've shook the tree incredibly. In the meantime, the test capacity is very extensive and the GGDs are very scaled up to take those tests and then do source and contact research. So we're capable of a lot more tests. We have already been able to switch on quite a few new groups. But that test is going to have a different purpose. In addition to diagnostics for an individual patient, most people who have been tested positively should just sit at home on the couch and do nothing else; they do not have to undergo any treatment or anything else to do............................................................................................................................................. A second goal is to contain the people with whom they have been in contact by means of source and contact research. So it's about that combination. It is about monitoring, knowing how the spread is going, and stopping, curbing, spreading by also setting up contacts on the bank. That makes that 100% test policy possible. That's what you have to want. Then I'll go over to the questions. They're mainly about the source and contact research. I shall begin with Mr Asscher's question. He says, "What exactly is being changed in that protocol?" I think it's good to be a little more precise on that point. The protocol was amended on 6 May. That's a tightening-up to what was there. That is already quite in line with and on a number of points even stricter than the internationally used line. Today, or yesterday, I must say, there was an overview study by the WHO and ECDC describing where the differences lie. You can see that these differences are actually very small. So we have to comply with international standards. But there is still a need for tightening up, we think. That's what I've been talking to RIVM and the GGD over the past few weeks. Of the people who tested positive, the roommates in particular received the intensive treatment: both phone calls and written instruction. Moreover, for the intensive or close contacts other than roommates, the directive of 6 May 1993 was adopted by the OMT; it was made by the RIVM and adopted by the OMT, the experts, that they should be informed in writing. We discussed that with each other. It would not be of added value to call them after written instruction. Moreover, the experience with written instruction is that people keep to it quite well. A letter like that is also quite instructive. That is not a letter to put aside shoulder-picking; it is a letter that is taken very seriously. However, calling and written instruction is best, because you can also ask questions in that phone call and then read in writing what you have been given as advice and what was so important. A second adjustment is aftercare. Aftercare is also done now, especially in people where the GGD estimates that a bell is still nice to remind them of what they had to do again, and that two, three, four or five bells actually help even more. Then that aftercare is already taking place. But we agreed that you should actually want to do that to everyone. You don't have to do that every day. That is also the experience of the GGD Limburg, who did that in the beginning for a time. People really call every day also irritates, and it's not supposed to get annoyed at the GD. By the way, most people are not so short of recollecting that you really have to call them every day. But calling every once in a while is definitely good. The people who need it more often need to be called more often. Then you call to see if any complaints have been developed. If so, those complaints must be reported. But above all, it must be said: let yourself be tested, then you know if you have it. People must also be reminded that they must stay at home. They need to be checked to see if they can do that. How come I hear all kinds of ballpark sounds, you don't live in the IKEA? Of course, that conversation should also be conducted. All GMDs are now ready for implementation on the basis of the current Directive. That directive has, if it is right, been amended today. If it is right, the new directive is now on the website. So the new way of working, the new appointment, with a more intensive source and contact research, is from now on the directive to which the GDPs will comply. Meanwhile, the GGDs naturally scale up considerably, also in capacity. Last time I said that this scaling-up is done on the basis of the estimate of how much is needed. Mrs Marijnissen asked for that. How much capacity do you need? We have a complete plan and presented it to us last Friday. We have repeatedly said that we have carte blanche; we simply have to do what is necessary and accept the people who are needed. There is no financial restriction to do the things that matter from the content of the infection control. So the source and contact research is considerably scaled up. The adjustments to be made to the draft directive on the basis of the latest directive will be made next week. Each regional GGD stands up for an extension, based on about 2% positive testing people and 30,000 people with respiratory complaints reporting on the test street. With an equivalent of an x-number of hours per source and contact research, you get to about 800 fte. There's already about 700 on the payroll, so I'm sure we can do that. That's what the regional health services do. For the national scale, the national GGD makes appointments with a number of call centers. Those appointments will be made this week or at the beginning of next week. Then one also stands for the within-24-hour scaling up to 2,400 FTE. Together, it's 3,200 fte. This number will be adjusted slightly upwards on the basis of the latest directive. Preparations are on schedule, but it is of course a short time frame. I can let you know next week whether 1 June actually works. This depends not only on the source and contact research, but also on everything that needs to be arranged nationally in order to get the tests in order. The test streets that are now sufficient for the people who need to be tested will soon have to be sufficient to test everyone. But every time I get very worried about this and they ask if it will work, they look at me and say, "We're actually scaling it up on the conveyor belt. Very quickly to scale up to do some very fanatical research or to do very fanatical source and contact research, we do on the assembly line. The source and contact research has been our work since time immemorial." So I feel like they're gonna be okay there. A number of other dependencies are much more complicated, in particular the IT systems to shift sample flows at the time the laboratory used by a GGD is overcrowded. That's a big dependency, so that's gonna be exciting for a while. Next week I'll let you know if 1 June will work, or if it will be another week in June. In any case as soon as possible; there really is working with man and power at all those 25 GGDs. They really deliver a top performance; that can also be said. Then Germany. There's a lot of looking at Germany. By the way, I am also a fan of Germany, which is not the point, but for the sake of precision we did some research at the Robert Koch Institute through the RIVM. I understand that local health services themselves are responsible for the way in which they follow up on source and contact research. It is therefore not the case that this happens in the same way throughout the country and that everyone is called every day for two weeks. It's not like that. One chooses oneself whether one thinks that is a sensible way of working. In addition, a number of national teams are also active, similar to what we are going to do, which can help with local health services. Sometimes in Germany one chooses contact by phone, sometimes by e-mail. Sometimes the health service contacts, sometimes it is the people themselves who have to contact the health service. In short, I have the idea that our directive offers much more guidance to do the same throughout the country. In short, I have the idea that our directive offers much more guidance to do the same throughout the country. Thus, the policy in Germany is not one-sided and uniform. It's okay. It's okay. That's not the point. I'm sure it's okay. They're just doing really well. But it is not all very much more intense in Germany. That is not the reality as I understand it. It's called Kontakt personennachverfolgung by the way. That's very nice, of course. We will see if we can still incorporate that into the directive. Then there were a number of complicated questions from Mr Heerma. Let's say someone's positive, but the phone call doesn't stick to that home quarantine. When and how do urges and compulsion come into the picture? That is provided for in the Public Health Act, but that is rather firm. In the Public Health Act, an infected person can be forced into isolation. I don't think that's something to choose for, but it's possible. Of course, this possibility has to do with hyper-infectious diseases, e.g. ebola and other hyper-infectious infectious diseases. I hope not to take advantage of it, by the way. By the way, GMDs can provide insulation. They will also do so when home quarantine given the home situation is not possible. GGDs can then simply provide a place. Of course, they've arranged several corona centers. The president of the security region would have the power to act on it. The police and the G.D.D. can implement that. It's the last resort, though. You better hope it doesn't work that way. Furthermore, we know that compliance with the advice of the GGD is very high. That's 85% to 90% in the last investigation. We investigate every two weeks whether people comply with the behaviour recommendations of the GGD. That's one of the indicator lights in our dashboard. Then there is another question from Mr Heerma. Suppose there are concerns at a school about possible complaints. Then what happens at that time? How soon will it be tested and there will indeed be a rash within a day? If a lecturer has any complaints, he can now just report to the company doctor and have himself tested at the GGD. By the way, reporting through a doctor will start on 1 June. If everyone can get tested, it has no added value. Then it's just... come on in. You must have complaints. Otherwise, there's no point in a test like that. You have to judge for yourself if you think you have complaints. They asked me how you'd deal with masturbators. I'm not so afraid of that. Anyone who's ever had that Q-tip shoved down his nose knows that's not funny. So that's not something you repeat every day. If we start testing everyone, that triage goes away. For pupils from 0 to 12, schools must report it to the GGD if there are a striking number of pupils, in this case three per group, who have complaints. So if there's three of them snotting, there's got to be a phone call from the school to the G.D.D. The GGD then starts an investigation into the school as a whole to see if the infection there is indeed such that further action is needed and then takes those tests off, of course in consultation with parents. Then the whole school's gonna be vetted. Pupils from 12 years of age, in high school, can join the GGD just like teachers. So they're part of the test group. The results of those tests will follow the next day. So it always follows in 24 hours. That has to do with the fact that they are molecular tests, which have to be run in a laboratory. Then there is the question of what to do when a colleague does seem to have complaints, but has no desire to be tested. Is there no need for a reporting obligation in case of suspected infections? That is, of course, the first reason for a good conversation with your colleague. Probably your colleague has the same boss as you, and your boss has a responsibility to protect his staff. The obligations a boss has towards his staff and vice versa are laid down in the Working Conditions Act. In any case, what is not possible is that you, as an employer, have the action advice of the GGD to have you tested in case of complaints and then, if you are tested positively, go into home quarantine or if you have come into contact with your employee as much as possible to stay at home, not follow up or give your employee no room for that. That's covered in the Working Conditions Act. But the employer has no obligation to report. That's not really possible. As an employee, as a colleague, you also have no obligation to report. That's not really possible. At the start of the outbreak, there was a duty to report suspicions. It fell because it became rather bureaucratic. For anyone with a suspicion you could, of course, operate as a doctor by looking at whether it could be tested or by giving action advice yourself. The doctor therefore has a duty to report a confirmed infection, because the GGD needs to know. The GGD can then do source and contact research. But in the event of suspicion, the obligation to notify has been lifted, because at some point it did not really make any sense anymore. I'm gonna look into that, too. I'm gonna work out whether that reporting obligation for suspicious cases could still have a function in specific cases. Namely, in case you are obviously coughing around, but have absolutely no desire to be tested. Then where can people go? You're a danger to public health. I really need to work out what the possibilities are and how a reporting obligation could work. I think it would always go through a doctor, because otherwise we will have a very clicky event. I don't think we should want that. At least it would always go through a doctor. These were Mr Heerma's questions. I think I'll be through the questioning round about source and contact research.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u305	Yes. I shall go first to Mrs Van Brenn and then to Mr Heerma. But before I give you the floor, I have an internal question about voting. We usually vote after the Corona debate, but I understood that everyone would be okay with us voting Tuesday. Yeah? Then we will vote on Tuesday and perhaps the employees who follow this debate at a distance can also go home quietly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u306	I have a question about testing and testing. I took a look at it. If you live here in the Schilderswijk or in Scheveningen and you go to the test street, it is at Van der Valk, under Nootdorp. The directive is: come alone, in your car. There are probably also people who are older and who may not have a driver's license or who do not have a car. So they can't go there. What's the alternative?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u307	The car was chosen quite consciously, because of course this is the safest way. 'Cause you're just sitting in your own car. You just have to open the window and then the test is taken through the window. That's how it works right now. In each region, all GGDs are preparing for the extension of the target group. That target group is already quite extensive in recent weeks, but the expectation is that you will have more people later. Then there must be more testing facilities. So they're being expanded. In my region, Rotterdam-Rijnmond, you'll have five. There you can also come at a nearer distance on the bike. So that's an alternative anyway. But you also have people who aren't mobile at all. You don't want to have someone with any serious complaints. Of course you don't want to. There will also be............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. So that too is an addition. My expectation is that the GGDs will set up more reduction options as more people are tested. This is gonna have to take a minute. Of course, this has not been arranged at the top of the list since 1 June. That's gonna have to run smoothly, too. We will also have to look in each region at how this fine-meshed, low-threshold network is possible. The goal is, of course, that there is no threshold for people to be tested. The advice will be: in case of complaints, stay at home and get tested. Now the advice is: if you have any complaints, stay home. But then the advice is stay home and get tested. This must, of course, be as accessible as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u308	That is a very encouraging answer. Thank you, Minister. I had one more point. The letter also said that it could also be done by the general practitioner. Is that even a possibility? I think that's a confidant where people call a little easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u309	Sure. What is very important is that we make it clear that people with a number of diseases that make you particularly vulnerable to a corona infection should be tested through the general practitioner. So your own GP who knows you all the way from front to back helps you and then shares the results with you to be able to determine the follow-up with you. Vulnerable persons must therefore go to their general practitioner and the rest via the GGD, in order not to burden the general practitioner unnecessarily either. We'll all clear that up on a site. You also asked how we are going to shape this campaign. I hope to be able to announce next week whether we will be ready for this on 1 June, or perhaps a week later. If we are ready on 1 June, that campaign must also start next week. This will be done anyway via the website of the Government, on which there is also a clear signpost where you can go and who can go where. There's gonna be a national number where you can make the appointment. In the long run, there must also be a national site on which you can plan the appointment digitally at once. In short, that's all work in progress, but it all has to be as easy and as easy as possible for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u310	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u311	I would like to thank the Minister for answering various questions I have asked. I'm afraid I'm gonna need some questions to go into, because there were quite a few of them. I'll start with the schools. Suppose there's a school with a serious concern about two students in a group. They have a very bad cold, while it summers outside. I'm assuming they'll be able to ring the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u312	That is, of course, the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u313	What is the time frame for clarity? There are now concerns that sometimes it takes days to be clear. Of course, that cannot happen in a school where there are those worries and where parents are walking around. How soon will there be clarity at the time of testing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u314	In 24 hours, that clarity should just be there. Faster than that, logistics is hard to do. There's got to be something to do within 24 hours. People get over that now and then. That has everything to do with the fact that sometimes you have to kill those monster streams and it takes more time than is necessary. With the IT system being developed, it must be faster. So that is really necessary in order to achieve that clarity within 24 hours.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u315	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u316	Secondly, the Minister made a commitment about having to report when someone is knowingly and knowingly coughing, while it is quite clear that it is not wise to continue. That's what one of my questions was about. At what time do we hear more about this? Let us hope that most people do not do this, but one super-disperser can become a big problem. At what time do we get more clarity about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u317	I think I'm gonna need a couple of weeks to do that. I think that in the next letter, in two weeks' time, I can hopefully go into that. In any case, I will report on the latest state of play on the elaboration of what is already possible on the basis of the Wpg. How could the Presidents of the security regions use this instrument? How could one opt for isolation? In addition, the follow-up question is whether you can require someone to test even more complicated. Of course, this also affects the integrity of the body, so it is not easy to do so in order to do so in a legally sound, good way. Insulation is possible based on the Wpg. How to work that out in practice, when you do so and whether the obligation to notify is related to the use of that instrument, I really need to work out more legally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u318	Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u319	I understand it's complicated, but I still think it's important that it happens. I'm going to read the next letter critically on that. Then there is the point the Minister made about what an employer can and cannot do. I doubt it's as easy as the minister says, because if someone is sick and tested positive, then that person is sick. But what happens if you're a contact from someone who's sick and you get the advice to stay home and your employer says: working at home is not an option and you're not sick, so you just come to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u320	Then there is a medical advice from the GGD and your employer cannot oblige you to oppose it. That's your medical advice. That's what the doctor gave you. Your employer can't force you to do that. He may ask you to do your job at home, because then of course you are not sick, but only in contact with someone. Then you've been given medical advice to stay home as much as possible. So your employer can ask you to do your job at home. An employee therefore has the right to continue payment. That risk lies with the employer. In the next letter, I would be happy to elaborate further on the legal basis on which that obligation applies in this way, and whether that right applies in this way. That's the Working Conditions Act. I would like to work out the legal basis again with Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u321	I'd love to. I would like to ask the Minister whether the example that I believe Mr Marijnissen is using is specifically addressed there. What's the situation if you have a zero-hour contract? The Minister states that the risk is for the employer. Around pregnancy and childbirth, we've arranged it differently. Should we not also consider who is at risk and whether that is reasonable, given the situation we are dealing with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u322	I think that's a good proposal. Of course, it also depends very much on the number of infections. If the number of infections is low, it is an acceptable risk to the employer. If the r arrives in the month and the number of infections increases significantly or when that second wave arrives, then I can imagine you wonder if it is still a reasonable risk that you as an employer should be able to carry. I understand that, but for the time being it is at least so arranged that, if you have received a medical advice from the GGD to stay at home, that advice is a medical advice to stay at home as much as possible, so you also have the right to stay at home, albeit that your employer may ask you to do your job at home. I'm going to work this out and come back to that in another letter. I will do that together with Social Affairs, because this is entirely related to legislation that falls within his remit. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll continue with the questions about nursing care and caring for vulnerable groups. This has been a great deal in all the debates so far. What this was about last time, through a motion adopted unanimously by Mr Asscher, is that road map for society as a whole. Mr Segers and Mr Van der Staaij have often asked for it. What can again, given the figures and the extent of spread of the virus at this time? What does that mean for vulnerable groups? The visitor scheme was necessary and has really helped to reduce the number of new infected sites and to further reduce the number of new infections in those locations, but it is an extremely harsh measure. The suffering is really unimaginable in the nursing homes, but also in vulnerable elderly people's homes. If you look at how few contacts are left because of all these strict measures... In particular, it is the health care provider with whom one is still in contact. You can't keep doing that much longer. The suggestion from Mr Asscher's motion, which focused on disability care, has been made widely across all healthcare sectors, because providing a roadmap is also very good for care. By doing so, we jointly indicate what can be and what can be expected again. Last time I told Mr Segers what I saw and saw happen: institutions are very worried and cautious and sometimes even over-cautious. In an outbreak phase, of course, that is only good, but gradually it also has disadvantages for people. If you as parents haven't seen your own child for a very long time because he lives in an institution, if you haven't been able to visit for a very long time, then you'll like it if those institutions dare to start that visitor scheme again. If the daily spending is very fast, but it is very difficult to get going again, it is good to say to the daily spending: boy, wouldn't you say again? That is why we have made a roadmap, in which we have made clear what can happen at what time. That is also the comfort that Mr Van der Staaij is asking for: what is the comfort of healthcare providers to take risks and dare to take up the expansion of visitor arrangements again? We have made this road map for a reason: what can happen at what time? We have said that on 25 May we must be able to visit all those nursing homes that consider themselves capable of doing so. They report to the GGD and they say: we are going again, under the condition that there are no corona contaminations at the site, on the condition that they make that check-up with the one caregiver who comes to visit. One caregiver or one visitor can be appointed, and that check call must be made in advance: if you have complaints, you should really stay home. Then, of course, that visit must take place at 1.5 metres. Those are basically Modo's terms. For all nursing homes that see that at their location, they can again from May 25th. They'll report to the G.D.D. to that effect. We have said: from 15 June onwards, all the sites where that contamination is not should actually take that step to allow visitors again. We have actually chosen that analogy with that data for all healthcare sectors. In particular, when it comes to daily spending, we have said: from 1 June onwards, that transport to daily spending must be organised again, and daily spending must also be done again, albeit sometimes in a suitable form. That 1.5 meters is sometimes quite complicated for a daily use. So not everything can be done in the same way as before. But there's got to be a day's spending. So May 25th, next Monday, is an important date. Wherever there is no contamination, institutions are allowed to take that step again. As of 15 June, they will have to go back to business on 1 June. Those are, I think, very important dates. Meanwhile, we also try to work on an answer to the question when it should be possible to visit again with multiple visitors in an institution. We think we can do that another month later, so July 15th. I hear sounds like "wouldn't be able to do that sooner," and that's what we're talking about. We'll be careful. We are taking it one step at a time, and we are doing it together, in particular, so that this roadmap also gives real guidance to the sector and gives comfort to the sector. When does the Cabinet come up with an inclusive transition strategy in line with the UN Convention on Disabilities? We are working hard on this with representative organisations. This concerns the so-called COVID-19 strategy for people with disabilities or chronic diseases, so that they are practically supported by the effects of the crisis and are supported as much as possible in the design of one and a half-metre society. How can we take into account people with disabilities? The roadmap presented yesterday is actually a first yield. This overall strategy is being drawn up at the moment, and I will inform you of the latest state of affairs in a subsequent letter. But maybe that strategy will be finished by then. The situation in home care. What is the expectation for the next few weeks? It is actually fully involved in the choices we made in that road map. There, of course, there was a strong visitor restriction for people with vulnerable health and for the elderly with vulnerable health. Two weeks ago, the OMT opinion made an exception for those people who would actually be even more vulnerable if no visitors were allowed to visit. It has been said that it would be better to allow that visit. Be careful, but it's better to allow that visit. Now the OMT has said, "Maybe we should let that go." It was also stated that it would then be real to expect that there would be more risks. But then again, you can't stay in this situation forever. I notice that a lot of elderly people, especially vulnerable elderly people, are particularly anxious: let's open the virus by opening the door? GPs are called asking: can I sit on the balcony again? Can I go back in the garden again? A lot of elderly people are so incredibly anxious and it is good, I think, if, by the way, we take steps in that regard, with understanding for their fears and concerns. So as from 25 May, starting Monday, the RIVM directive will be amended, which says that older people can return to normal visits, but do it carefully and with common sense. That's what I'm through, I think, the questions from this block. I still have a few questions that weren't so easy to sort out, starting with...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u323	I'll come back to that visit with the elderly. I note that there is still some uncertainty about this, also in relation to the information. Older people also say: can I receive grandchildren again or will I still have grandchildren? But before 25 May, the advice is to all the elderly and therefore also to older people over 70 and people with vulnerable health: it can just, fill it in yourself, but be careful. So there is no more general advice to not do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u324	No, I didn't. That's right. Then the varia. Starting with the mink. You received a letter on my behalf late last night from Mrs Schouten. In that letter you were informed about the decision-making structure from now on. Mrs Ouwehand rightly points out, like Mr Jetten, that the zoonoses structure must enter into force as soon as public health is actually at stake. I think that was also the picture you showed me. In the case of the transfer of human beings to mink, of course, animal health was particularly at stake, but now that it is plausible, I have to put it very precisely, the fact that there has also gone in the opposite direction, namely from mink to man, public health is really at stake. And so that zoonosis structure has entered into force. In doing so, the Minister of VWS, in close cooperation with the Minister of LNV, RIVM, local directors and GGDs, coordinates policy and decision-making. That is the formal wording. So the VWS Minister is in the lead, but you do have to decide on that together. And why do you do that? That is because some of the instruments you will need are instruments whose powers lie with the Minister of LNV, but which VWS has to coordinate. That was decided in response to the Q fever, where the evaluation showed that two departments had looked at each other at decisive moments and you shouldn't have. Well, that's not the case here. We look at each other in the sense of getting together, but not of "please do it, because I didn't think it was my package." 'Cause that's not how it works, of course. This is where the importance of public health is really at stake, and that means that the zoonosis structure, the decision-making structure, has entered into force since yesterday's letter, as I have just described. Mr Schouten also described in that letter yesterday what we are doing, so what measures we have taken. On 26 April the first measures had already been announced following the infections found on the mink farms. Now that it is likely that there has been an infection of animals on humans, it has tightened the measures. Because the virus may be present on mink farms without animals having any symptoms, all mink farms in the Netherlands will be subject to mandatory screening. That's yesterday's decision. Previously, a reporting obligation was established for respiratory problems and increased mortality. This reporting obligation is extended to the reporting of multiple symptoms that may indicate a COOVID-19 infection. The employees of the infected mink farms are advised to use personal protective equipment. There is also a ban on visitors to the infected farms. These are the measures that have been taken so far. Research is currently under way and, on the basis of this research, we will take further action. In addition, there will be a technical briefing next Monday. I can easily imagine that on the basis of that, you are putting in a debate, and I can just imagine that on that basis we will continue the discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u325	Then I would like to invite the VWS Minister to the debate we would like to have on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u326	That's what I suspected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u327	It'd be nice if he could be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u328	Yeah, sure. That seems to be the time to go into the questions surrounding the measures to be taken by the minks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u329	To finish, I guess. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u330	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u331	And I'm gonna wrap it up, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u332	Yeah, sure. I have two more questions. The first question is about prevention, the manifesto "the petition" I have to say: "which was received live online yesterday by the Secretary of State. This comes from the Netherlands Innovation Centre for Lifestyle Medicine, together with TNO and LUMC. Mr Blokhuis has received this manifesto. It's absolutely true that we have work to do on a vaccine. Eventually, a vaccine will actually protect us. Meanwhile, we also have to work on all kinds of innovative treatments to see if we can also reduce the damage caused by that nasty virus with treatments. But at least what we know is that everyone in good health actually has better resistance. So lifestyle is really something to bet on right now. It is always important; one third of all the care we give in the Netherlands is related to lifestyle-related diseases. But especially now it's an extra wake-up call to make sure we give an extra boost to lifestyle. So we'd like to get back to it in what way we're gonna do it. I imagine that's what we'll do in the next letter. Then Mr Baudet. He asked if I'm willing to make hydroxychloroquine available for the first line. That was Mr Baudet's question. "Hawk-roke-roke-roke-roke-win," as President Trump says. Well, I'm not. Moreover, I do not think it is up to politicians to promote experimental use of medicines. The Medicines Evaluation Board, the CBG, claims that the efficacy of chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine has not been sufficiently demonstrated. The use of these medicines entails serious risks of cardiac arrhythmias. "If it doesn't then it doesn't harm" doesn't go on. In addition, the advice to use these drugs is only for patients as part of the clinical study and in line with the treatment directive of the Foundation Working Group on Antibiotics Policy. It actually assesses all medical treatment options that can be used in an innovative, research-based way. That treatment directive says very clearly: really do it only in a research setting and certainly not in the first line by general practitioners. The inspection will also, of course, monitor this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u333	Perhaps it comes to Mr Van Rijn, but I still had three questions to which I thought I would get an answer from this Minister. They're about the capacity of 113, so it's about suicide prevention, about increasing ic capacity, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u334	That's with colleague Van Rijn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u335	Okay, that's fine. And about the municipalities' finances.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u336	And your question was about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u337	I'm gonna bring him in very precisely, because then we'll know for sure. What signals does the cabinet receive from municipalities whether they are sufficiently equipped to meet the tasks of this crisis? Do they have sufficient financial resources for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u338	Mr Ollongren and Mr Vijlbrief, the fundholders of the Gemeentefonds, are in full agreement with the municipalities. Of course, I am also involved, because part of the extra expenditure that the municipalities are currently spending on health care. We have made agreements with the municipalities to opt for continuity of care, because you know that there may now be a dip in care that will be scaled down, but that you will need all those people at all those care institutions again. Thus, continuity agreements have been made by municipalities with all their health care institutions. What we're doing is making agreements on how we're going to finance it. So all the extra extra costs that municipalities have to pay for the care because of COVID-19, the Empire is responsible for it. We are making agreements, right now, about an advance on that. At the end of the year we pay for the corona-related additional costs that municipalities have incurred for the care. Those are the agreements we have made with municipalities at the moment and are also making in precision. In the meantime, I'll look up your other question in my papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u339	That question was about enlargement...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u340	Yeah, about 113. I answered that question last time. Mr Blokhuis is talking intensively with 113 to see if they need extra funding. They are closely involved in the crisis approach, which has been set up widely with ggz parties, with MIND and with the professional groups, the domes. Once there is a demand for additional resources, this demand will be looked at very seriously and very favourably.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u341	Were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u342	Sure. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u343	That's good. The Minister for Medical Care and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u344	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will try to say a few words on the three issues that have been raised: the availability of personal protective equipment, the ic recordings and the scaling-up of regular care. That's a bit of what's actually going on in the whole crisis. On the one hand, we see more favourable figures. I always have a bit of a problem with the words "beneficiary figures" when it comes to the ic or lag in acute care. Behind these more favourable figures lies still a lot of grief and suffering; let us continue to establish this with each other. On the one hand, we are seeing more favourable developments and on the other hand, there is still great vigilance, because the ic-recordings can just increase again if there is a infection scare. In such a case, you will again have to deal with the displacement of regular care. For personal protective equipment, we remain dependent on production and transport. First of all, I would like to refer to the availability of personal protective equipment, which has been the subject of a number of questions. As you know, before the outbreak of COVID-19, the protective equipment such as mouth masks were ordered from regular suppliers. Each healthcare institution or cluster of healthcare institutions often worked with fixed suppliers. This was usually organised fairly efficiently, but due to the global outbreak of covid, on the one hand, protective equipment production collapsed, especially in Asia. Then the demand for protective equipment exploded worldwide. There was a question that was about 61 times as big as before. At that time, in consultation with the healthcare sector, we looked at how we can further centralise procurement without a profit and how we can get large amounts of protective equipment back to the Netherlands. It's getting better and better. Meanwhile, the Landelijk Consortium Auxiliaries has managed to build a network with 50 suppliers. The LCH has bought almost 1 billion mouth caps in this market, both surgically and FFP. There is a portal where some 5,000 settings are now connected and the number is increasing. By way of illustration: another 5 million surgical masks and 4 million FFP masks are expected to come to the Netherlands this week. Are we there? Actually, no. You could say that the LCH currently has enough to meet the demand that is being placed with them, so on top of the regular deliveries. New stuff comes in every day. But that doesn't change the fact that it still remains a challenge every day to get that stuff to the Netherlands. For example, it becomes exciting again around the gloves and the aprons. Raw materials are limited worldwide and you can still order so much, but they have to be produced first and transported to the Netherlands. This means, for example, that there is a diversification of transport. The LCH works with aircraft, trains and ships, with different locations. As far as we are concerned, that may be more. At the same time as trying to buy in sufficient protective equipment, I am also talking to regular suppliers and healthcare providers to see if we have sufficient protective equipment for the coming years. These talks are also being held at European level. We are also working on the production in the Netherlands. You've been able to hear about that for the past few years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u345	It really is a mistake that this minister dares to take the words 'favourable figures' in his mouth at all. I do not think that there has ever been such a failure in the entire Corona file, has really been a failure, has been a failure when it comes to protective equipment. We saw it yesterday. It's really unbelievable. We've been in the crisis for three months. Three months we're in the crisis. As of day one, you were not prepared for protective equipment, either your predecessor or the cabinet. And what turned out to be yesterday? That from a sample of a trade union, FNV in this case, shows that 60% of the employees in nursing and home care do not have protective equipment. 60%! And we've been standing here for three months. I believe that eight motions for resolutions have been adopted. I believe that you and your predecessor made seven promises about this. They're still not here! 60%! That is a majority of the people in nursing care, where we now have 8,000 cases of infection, 2,500 deaths and another 4,500 people suspected of being infected. We have also seen that debate was stopped by the coalition last week, that when it comes to testing, they were also at the back of the line. That's what they were doing with the protective equipment. Now it still doesn't have 60%! How dare you come here anymore? How dare you still show your face here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u346	Perhaps because I am working every day to ensure that there are and will be sufficient protective equipment. You cannot be prepared for a situation where the production of all buyers collapses, in India and China, and a global demand of 61 times the number of protective equipment purchased until then. We had no production in the Netherlands. So that's one. Now, let's take a look at the union survey. I've seen it, too. The RIVM prescribes the situation in which you should use protective equipment. It is logical that if there is contamination or suspicion of infection, you should use protective equipment. It may not be there or you can work remotely. For body-related care you should usually have protective equipment and not for non-body-related care. I can imagine that makes you insecure. Because, yeah, who reads those RIVM guidelines? When do you have to do it or not? If you have to go to someone's home care and are not sure if you need to have a protective device, you may not have to, but you don't have them, you'll still be insecure. That is also why we have agreed with the unions and with the RIVM to make some room for the personal judgment of the healthcare professional. If it finds itself in a situation where the Directive does not work, it will be provided with protective equipment. The RIVM Directive has also been amended in this respect. The purchase of protective equipment has been adapted and its distribution has also been adjusted. That doesn't mean that everyone recognizes themselves in that. I have agreed with the unions that we will jointly draw up practical guidelines so that every employee can see when and when they will have to do so. We check every day if there is enough stock and we don't get any signals from the institutions that there are deficits, but I'm not satisfied until the employees and the employees feel it and experience it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u347	It's a long answer. The minister says there are no signs that they're unhappy or that they're not there. They're not here! 60% of the people in care, in nursing care, and home care says we don't get them. Why is that? Because their bosses, the employers say, "it would be their professional responsibility to decide whether they need it?'. Well, when they say they need it, Mrs Kitty Jong of FNV says that the staff themselves want it, but that the bosses, the employers say: you don't get it. That really is the world upside down. People need that professionally, in home care. They go to people to help them at home. Or they go to the nursing homes, where, once again, thousands of people have died of this. This also has to do with the lack of testing and the lack of protective equipment. And then we are now three months further into the crisis, two ministers further into the crisis, and then the majority still says: we want them and we don't get them. You're ashamed of that, aren't you? Then you can't come up with a technical story about the RIVM, can you? Now you must say: I'm leaving now and I'll be back tomorrow and it's settled. Then you're a man! Why don't you take care of this? After three months the FNV or anyone in the care must say: finally, it was perhaps too late, but thank God, it is now settled. But what is the reality? 60% say we don't have them. Beautiful pictures of you at the KLM planes and I know what all, beautiful pictures, but they just aren't there. This can't be happening, can it? This is a... Well, I'm not going to speak in superlatives, but you must be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u348	All we can do with each other is get this buy-in going. I've just shown you that this purchase is about to begin. We also call settings every time. We're not getting any signals... In any case, the demand that comes into the National Consortium Resources is less than the number of resources available. But that doesn't change the fact that there are signals from the practice of healthcare workers saying, "I don't have those things" or "I feel like I should have them, but I don't get them." There are two things attached to that. The RIVM guidelines describe when and when you should not use tools. I can imagine that in a situation where you don't have to use tools but still come across someone's face, you think, "Is this okay?" That is precisely why we have made room for ourselves in the RIVM directive and have said: if a healthcare professional in specific situations says 'I cannot get out of here with the directive; I need protective equipment', then so are there. In fact, we're already making those packages. We are working with the unions to make practical guidelines. I assume that the feeling "I actually need them, but I can't get them" will disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u349	But, Minister, with all due respect, do you hear what you're saying? You say: we're making them; I'm confident it'll get better soon. We're in the crisis for three months! We have had 100 debates on this subject with you and your predecessor. Surely it cannot be that we, thousands of other infections and deaths, still have a minister who says: I am working on that? Don't you agree with me that it's a shame it hasn't been settled yet? Let me put it this way. Can you ensure that it is not settled in two weeks' time, but that it is taken care of immediately? Can you at least answer those two questions honestly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u350	The current situation, which I have just indicated, is that the number of resources that are in stock and that are still coming into the National Consortium Devices, is sufficient to answer the question of the healthcare institutions. That's one. But I also said that I am not satisfied with that, because if there are employees who feel that they need resources but do not get them, then we must also answer them. But then we should not say to each other: give everyone but resources and also use them in situations where you don't need them. That would be a great shame, because then we will make our own scarcity, causing everyone in care to suffer. At the same time, we must ensure that there are resources in those cases where they are needed and that they are prepared. As we speak that happens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u351	My final point, Madam President, is that, of course, that should have been settled by now. You shouldn't say, "I think that should happen" and "as we speak that happens." After three months of crisis, it should have been settled. We are not going to send home ministers as a PVV in a time of crisis, but in a normal time you would no longer have been there. Then the Chamber, and not just us, would have said: this is unacceptable. The biggest shame of the whole corona crisis when it comes to the staff of care is that they do not have enough protective equipment and that the Minister is now saying: as we speak we are working on it. We've been in this crisis for 100 days! It should have been taken care of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u352	I note that Mr Wilders has little understanding of where we come from. If at some point in that crisis the entire production in Asia collapses and the global demand for resources is 61 times higher than before, then you can see how much work there was and how much work to do. After a month and a half to two months, I notice that we are able to go with suppliers with which we have initiated a reliable flow of resources. You can say that is not good, but I think that is very good, also compared to other countries. There's a global crisis. Go check with all the surrounding countries: they're everywhere with this problem. We have managed in two months to ensure that these resources are made available. Now we need to ensure that everyone involved in practice also feels that they are being provided. We checked with all the settings to see if they ordered enough. To institutions that do not order, we ask why exactly. They have supplies of their own. That means we're gonna be able to do that. That's not so bad in two months, given the global crisis there was. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u353	We ask for the utmost of our caregivers in this crisis. It is indeed the biggest disgrace of this corona approach of this cabinet that it is not possible to provide adequate protection for the caregivers. Two weeks ago, a proposal from the SP was adopted here in the Chamber saying that caregivers may deviate from the directives if they consider it necessary and then wear protective materials. But we can see in practice that it is still insufficient. My question to the Minister would therefore be: when is the time when we come against all health care providers who need protection, even if it is preventive, because it can also be safe and because two days before you develop complaints you can infect others... There are all kinds of reasons why it might be wise to wear protective materials. When is the time when we can get rid of all these complicated directives and just say to all healthcare professionals in the Netherlands: if you think it's sensible, if you think it's helpful and if it's safer, then you can wear protective equipment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u354	That approach would not be wise. We have just asked our experts when you need those protective equipment. Then you look at the risk of infection: when do you have to use them and when should you not use them? Suppose you said, "Let's let everyone use all these resources as a precaution." We have 1.2 million people working in health care. They need some caps a few days of the year. Then you're sitting at 4 to 8 billion caps a year that would be used in situations where they're not needed. I don't think that's a good idea. Then we will create our own scarcity, regardless of the fact that we will then have achieved what we have just achieved, namely that there will be a balance between supply and demand again, wipe it off the table in one stone and we will be able to start again. That does not seem to me to be a sensible line.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u355	Mrs Marijnissen, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u356	I don't think there's much confidence in caregivers in this. I think caregivers are quite capable of making that assessment. It is also a fact that people have been able to infect others for two days before developing complaints. So that could lead to very dangerous situations. If caregivers work at risk groups, for example in the nursing home, with old people, or with people with disabilities, it may well be that caregivers want to choose to wear preventive protective equipment. I just don't think I can explain, not sell, that the national buyer says "I can order five times more materials, but I don't, because we already have enough" while the minister here in the Chamber says: no, no, no, we can't start preventive use for healthcare professionals, because then we create our own scarcity. I'd say solve that scarcity. Make sure you buy more, because the equipment is there. That's what your own country buyer says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u357	That's right. The national buyer also said: I have enough supply lines to do so. There are now 50 supply lines that are suitable for this purpose. If there's more to buy, so do we. We have the problem that we do not get the funds to the Netherlands because of too few aircraft than there are too few resources. That's the situation. That is why we have adapted these directives so that in certain situations the carers can say 'that is your own proposal' that they cannot get away with these directives. The directives have been amended. Now I'm working, with V&VN and the unions, to translate it into very practical guidelines, so that everyone can see when and when not. The only thing I am saying is that we must be careful when we give those resources preventively, because in the shortest possible time you will find yourself in a shortage, which affects the whole of the concern, while in those two months we have just reached a situation where we think: hey, we have a bit of light at the end of the tunnel. I want to monitor this very much, because I am not just looking to create a balance between supply and demand. I'm actually looking to build up a bit of an iron supply, so we'll never get into that situation again. That is, by the way, a point which you yourself have also pointed out. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Marijnissen had another question, namely whether it is true that a joint purchase of personal protective equipment has been ricocheted off by a number of companies. The Department of Economic Affairs has consulted several entrepreneurs who produce personal protective equipment. There has been talk of consumer masks, non-medical devices, for example, for the DVD. There it has been found that there is or is going to be no scarcity when it comes to non-medical masks and that there is therefore no need for joint procurement. Moreover, I am keeping an eye on it, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, because I want to think about the situation in which we say: we now have a lot of central purchasing, on top of the regular procurement of healthcare providers. I will strive to see what the balance between central purchasing and what healthcare providers can continue to buy, because that seems to me to be the most optimal way. There are also disadvantages when everything has to be central, because then you have to distribute again. So that conversation with the entrepreneurs will continue that way. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to intensive care. Actually, it was asked to explain again how we got that 1,700, what's behind it. Is it realistic when nurses say it's not realistic? Why do we have to talk to each other about scaling up the ic capacity? That's actually for four reasons. Firstly, I want to be well prepared for the situation in which we suddenly have to scale up very badly. We come from a situation where we had to scale up very strongly in a very short time, with all the consequences for workload and work stress. That is something we should really want to avoid. Secondly, I would like to prevent acute regular care being pushed away too much if we have to scale up again. Thirdly, we must take into account the ic capacity that we will need in the coming period, because covid care will still take place on the ic. Fourthly, we must also bear in mind that we should also be able to scale up very flexibly when the virus leads to a peak load again, unexpectedly. Now the survey of nurses and nurses has come out: we get that, but it's very complicated to get that scaling done, because we've just had a very busy period and scaling up the ic-capacity is not that easy. I understand that very well. We should also be a little careful not to overstretch. At the same time, we must solve this problem. We have to do something. You mentioned earlier in the Chamber that we should actually move towards higher structural ic capacity. We need to make sure that we can absorb peak loads, that we don't end up in such a steam-and-boiling water situation. So we need to see how we can do that scaling up. Mr. Chairman. So calculations have been made by the Dutch Association for Intensive Care and by the National Coordination Centre for Patients Spreading to see how much you should have. That 1,700 is a bit of a max situation: what could you expect? What I really want is for us to take doctors, hospitals and nurses to see how we can do that. Fortunately, I am not saying that from today to tomorrow. But we do have to do it to make sure that we are prepared for situations where it may be necessary. Some of you have asked: do you want to involve the nurses as well as possible? This plan cannot be made without them, because they have to do it eventually. We may need to talk to them about whether an adjustment of the method might help. You could see what you can and what you can't. Or, as Mr Heerma suggests, where can it be and where can it not be? So we need to see if we can come up with a clever plan in which we can successfully achieve that scaling and at the same time take into account the lessons we have learned from the sudden scaling up of steam and boiling water. So be sure I'm very much in favour of doing it with the staff. Mr Heerma asked: should you not receive separate covid hospitals when scaling up? I have discussed this with the sector before. This is what they said. You can do that, but then you also have a number of disadvantages. When the capacity shifts, you have to go back to another place to provide care. Secondly, when someone is in intensive care, you often have to treat other complications and switch with other disciplines in the hospital. So I would imagine that you would say that you might be able to scale up flexibly in a few selected centres first, and if you want to scale up very strongly, then everybody should scale up. So I am looking at what measures should be taken there, but I would be careful to say that we should only create separate covid centres because of the disadvantages that have been identified. In the plan we are making, I would like to focus on the question of whether this could be a flexible, selective growth. As far as I am concerned, the long-term outlook is that we aim to have a structurally higher ic capacity, which we are prepared for this kind of situation. Mr. Chairman. I think that Mr Klaver's question and Mr Segers' question of nurses are well taken into account. The same applies to Mr Heerma's question on the separation of covid and non-covid. Mr. Chairman. Then the scaling-up of regular care. I think everyone can see that it is simply a very big problem that so much ic-care had to be provided that two hospitals were created in a short time, one for covid and one for non-covid. A lot of regular care is therefore temporarily replaced. That is also why we have asked the Healthcare Authority to take up a coordinating role there. They've made an emergency list of hospital care to see what needs to be done first and what can be done later. Where national or regional bottlenecks arise, the list of urgency may be used to ensure the prioritisation or distribution of care. We don't just do that in hospital care. We also do this with the ggz and the district nursing services, where we want to make agreements throughout the chain, for example. We do it with oral care, paramedical care and rehabilitation care. We get a report from the Healthcare Authority about how things are getting along and how things are going, about every two weeks. Slowly but surely you see it being scaled up again. We're not there yet, but it does mean that we will continue to work on it steadily, not just for hospital care, but for the whole care. In the biweekly briefing we send about developments of the covid approach I will also take those NZa results with me every time. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mrs Van Brenn had asked when people would receive information about the start-up of regular care. The main message is now real: contact your healthcare provider if you think you need care. Then it can be decided together which care is needed at what time. Lots of field parties, but also care professionals in their own region are busy making movies and reports about the start-up of regular care. They're already being made. Communication's on all sides. We will discuss with the general practitioners how this communication can be further strengthened. There the same message is always told: if there is something going on or if you are in doubt, go to your GP, then you can decide in consultation whether care should be provided and where and at what time it can be done. That information must be accessible to everyone. Finally, the Healthcare Authority publishes weekly on its website information on the initiation of medical-specialist care. Not everyone's gonna look at that, but it might be interesting for us. Mr President, those were my answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u358	I saw that there were questions from Mr Segers and Mr Baudet. Mr Baudet has a point of order? You can fix that now. Then we're done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u359	I know that we have just decided to move most of the votes to Tuesday, but I would like to ask whether we can vote on my motion, which is necessary on the basis of the answers I have now received from the Cabinet, on the opening of the catering sector by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u360	I think there was a meeting during the suspension. Everyone was okay with voting on all the motions on Tuesday. Including you, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u361	This is an opportunity to adapt that decision which has been taken wrongly, apparently, because there is an important motion that needs to be voted on tonight to the need for the national interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u362	We made a round in the suspension. At that time we agreed unanimously that we could vote on Tuesday. This has now been taken into account by all the groups. And given the government's response, I do not think that Mr Baudet is going to change anything about that with a vote this evening. I'm gonna ask him to just take his motion Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u363	But we can maintain the vote we have had before, can't we? People don't have to come back from home after they've already left. We can vote in this composition, can't we? There's no reason not to, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u364	Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u365	Apart from the fact that I had a similar motion, I think that the proposal is quite reasonable. I also agreed to vote next week, but if a motion calls for action tomorrow, it is obvious that we will vote on it tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u366	About one motion, then. Or about two motions? I'll see if anyone else thinks so. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u367	Mr. Chairman. In itself, I have no problem with voting tonight. However, we have just voted unanimously for the right order: so Mr Baudet and Mr Wilders are also saying that we are not going to vote this evening. This means that we have not taken that into account. I would say that we are not going to do that tonight. I really did not find it difficult to vote tonight, but we all agreed not to. Let us just stick to what we have agreed and move on quickly with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u368	Good. Mr. Baudet, if you wait a moment, everyone will first have the opportunity to say something about it. Then we're gonna come to a conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u369	I agree with my colleague, Mr Jetten. We just agreed not to do it now. I want to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u370	Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u371	Mr. Chairman. We all just made that decision. I think you could have thought at that point if you wanted to file such a motion. We also said that employees could be tuned out. So I'd say not tonight. It will also make no difference in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u372	Mr. Chairman. I also find it difficult because we have just concluded that we would not vote. But maybe there's another creative solution. Anyone who agrees with Mr Baudet's motion could sign the motion because the motion still has to be tabled so that it is immediately clear whether the motion can count on a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u373	No, Mr Baudet, not yet, because I would also like to ask Mrs Ouwehand if she thinks so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u374	It does not happen very often, but I wanted to say exactly the same as Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u375	Really? Good. It's gonna be exciting at the end of the night anyway. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u376	I am not going to pretend that I wanted to say the same thing as Mr Van der Staaij, but I think it is a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u377	Mr Van der Staaij does not sign with me, I see. Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u378	Mr President, I could have thought of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u379	Well, you're all brilliant. Mr Baudet is collecting signatures, so I will see whether the motion can count on sufficient support. Mr Van Haga. You thought exactly the same thing as Mr. Van der Staaij?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think you forgot all about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u381	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u382	It is, of course, completely absurd to vote on Tuesday on something that has to be done tomorrow, so let's just do it now. I think it's a very small effort. I don't think that's a problem at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u383	I'll put it down for signature.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u384	No, we really need a roll-call vote in advance. We have made arrangements to prepare for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u385	It doesn't look like there's a majority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u386	No. The majority here does not support voting on the motion. Then we'll do that Tuesday. You did your best, but it didn't work. I think I had Mr Heerma and then Mr Segers. Is that right? Then Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Van der Staaij. Mr. Heerma.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u387	I had indicated that I would also like to put my questions to Minister Van Rijn in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u388	Fine. That's good. Mr Segers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u389	I believe that Mr Baudet is even calling the clerk for signatures. Not even that one's gonna sign off on it. That is a slap in the face for all the catering entrepreneurs who had put their hopes on this motion. Let's get down to I had asked the Prime Minister a question about the OMT's five conditions. Minister Van Rijn would go into that. The question was about the conditions under which relaxation would be possible. Mr Van Rijn looks surprised at me. The question was about the OMT's five conditions. One of them was the pressure on care. The Minister did indeed respond to that. He says it's not so bad and it's hard to scale up the ic capacity. I do have one more question. We have, of course, heard the stories about the enormous pressure on staff. Here too, there were quite quick reassuring words. How do we know we're gonna make it if there's a second wave? It is also said that the second wave, when it comes, could be even more intense than the first wave. My second question is about control. The Minister admitted that the staff naturally talk along when it comes to scaling up, including regular care. In what way is this power shaped?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u390	How do we know we're gonna make it? Of course, you don't know what the peak could be due to any fireplace. What we can do is try to be as prepared as possible. That steam and boiling water was then caused, among other things, by the fact that we would not have enough equipment to get those ventilators to work. The supply of ventilators has been realized. Its production also takes place in its own country. This means that we can probably have about 3,000 ventilators ready when we need them. So that doesn't look bad, so to speak. I'm a cautious man, as you can see. With regard to the places where they might be, I can say that we have experience in scaling up steam and boiling water, but there is part of the problem. We can't ask that staff for everything. That is why, despite the fact that there are all kinds of objections on the one hand or on the other hand, I am still trying to say that we must move towards a flexible restructuring plan. You might tell us where it might be faster and where it might be less fast. This leads to a scaling-up that could work faster. In addition, of course, we also have the agreements we made with Germany. We can extend this to up to 600 places, provided, of course, that Germany does not need it itself. In the scale we have had it has been shown that the German valve has helped very much to accelerate that scaling up. So we make a structural plan in which we can flexibly scale up, if possible to that 1,700. You don't have to do that all at once. We've arranged things and we'll make sure we can tell about different places where we can and where we can't. I cannot, of course, say how great the appeal will be, but that is the maximum we can do together with the staff to achieve that. I was just saying, how does this participation take place? In the assignment we have given to the National Network of Acute Care, we have said: make such a plan, but include in that plan the lessons of the past, the staff who have to do it, the doctors who have to do it and also take care of costs, finances, stuff, places, where and where not, actually for the whole spectrum. I think this is enough guarantee to ensure that the voice of the nurses sounds heavily in making this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u391	I should like to come to that last point. I get the first one. In that sense, we really have a head start compared to the first wave. Let's hope there's no second wave. In terms of stuff and capacity, it's really a different story now. We don't have to plan and scale from week to week. I'm holding my own, but hopefully we're in a different position than we were six months ago. I have a second, because it's also about regular care. There's delayed care, so it's one of the parameters. It is one of the indicators to say that we can celebrate the reins somewhat and open society a little, because care is ready. At the same time, of course, we must also keep a close eye on the capacity of nursing and nursing staff. In what place and in what way do we hear their voice and can they really tell us how hard it has been, what they can handle and to what extent we can actually handle further scaling up, looking at their carrying capacity?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u392	It's hard. It's no easy thing to say: let's think about how a plan up to 1,700 could succeed. I think that such a plan must come to light what can and cannot be done and what can and cannot be done at what speed, so that we can understand what is and is not the maximum capacity. We'll make that plan with the nurses' experiences. There has been a survey in which they have indicated how they can work, how they can be supported, whether they can go from one patient to one patient in one patient in two and how long they can last one patient in three. We're all gonna incorporate that into that plan so we can make a good assessment of how fast you can scale up. The control strategy's got something to do with it. We cannot say: we must slow down when the ic capacity is full, because then it will go even further. This means that if we indicate that the increase in ic-capacity exceeds a certain signal value, we must all invent that already and do not have to wait until the ic is full. I think this is one of the lessons we've learned. So, on the one hand, we have to make a plan, in which the nurse's voice is visible, known the lessons of the past. On the other hand, we have to include a parameter in the dashboard so that you don't start braking when the ic is full, but you already notice much earlier that you have to brake to prevent it from coming full.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u393	Then I will go to Mrs Van Brenk and then Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u394	The Minister said in his letter a bit light-footed, but I am glad to hear that there is a real serious view with parties to come together to that ic capacity. I'd like to thank him for that. But I was still stuck with one little puzzle. That was about the point about the protective equipment. The Minister says: "If it becomes a right of workers, then there will be a much too big question." No? Then I'd like to hear what was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u395	Where, according to the RIVM directives, protective equipment is needed, people are, of course, entitled to that equipment. The discussion is about the following question: where it is not really necessary to use stuff, because it is not in the directives, but people feel uncertain or come into unexpected situations, it should also be possible to depart from those guidelines from your professional judgement. We'll facilitate that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u396	Okay, let me get this straight. But I have another point. We also come in with questions from someone who says: "I have heavy COPD and I can't do much more myself. I'm tied to bed and I'm dependent on home care. I'm not a covid patient, so home care doesn't have to wear protective equipment. But there's someone else coming around all the time. I'm worried about my own safety." Would it be possible for this patient to ask: would you please put on those protective equipment for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u397	Of course, that can always be asked, but the intervention is already earlier. When someone has complaints, that person should stay home. That means that you don't get those complaints to a patient, and certainly not to someone with underlying suffering who feels insecure. So I actually think the intervention should be earlier. It shouldn't be like you're just gonna show up and put on a cap. No, the employer should actually say to the employee: you can't give care right now, because you have complaints and must at least be tested first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u398	Yes, the final point, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u399	Just one more point, Mr. Chairman. That home-care worker gets on the floor with a lot of people. I imagine that's the anxiety of the patient. The client can say that if you get to so many people, it could be that you've been to someone where it might have just started, and that's transferable. The question is whether clients and patients also have the right to say that they would like to have a mouth cap, gloves or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u400	Given the relationship of trust between the caregiver and the patient, I think this can be resolved in the consultation between them. I don't mean to say that you shouldn't use those things, but let's all watch out for proper use, because otherwise we'll suffer from them in the whole care. I assume that this can be resolved in the relationship of trust between patient and caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u401	I have great respect for all the work that is being done to ensure that regular care is done as it should. We do receive reports from people whose surgery has been postponed for, for example, tumors and who are very concerned because they have very little clarity about when the operation could take place. My question is therefore: how can we offer more perspective to people for whom it is now very unclear?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u402	That is also exactly the reason behind the project scaling up regular care. In doing so, we identify exactly what the backlog is, what should be done with priority and what information should be provided to the clients in order to clarify their position. That's why I'm saying in general: if you have any doubts about it, have any complaints, or think you have any complaints, go to your doctor, go to your GP or call the hospital. Hospitals also stretch out their hands, literally through videos, to tell their patients that they can safely come to the hospital. I will also consult with the Healthcare Authority to see how the communication to patients, who may not know that we are doing this, could be further strengthened. This will, of course, be done mainly through the GP. The reason we hold regular consultations with the Healthcare Authority and the GPs is in particular to tackle this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u403	As I said, we had a good briefing this morning from Mrs Kaljou on whatever is happening in this area. It would be very nice if that point were to receive extra attention. That is the point of communication with the patient and that there is also a view of the people who would like to have that care or surgery, but now actually end up in a no-man's-land.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u404	I will discuss with Mrs Kaljou that this will be part of the plan she is making around the scaling up of regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u405	Thank you. Then we have arrived at the second term on the side of the Chamber. I'm gonna see who needs it. I call Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to have the terraces opened immediately instead of after Ascension and Pentecost,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 60% of care workers in nursing homes and home care are still unable to be protected at work;]] [[calls on the Government to include in all directives for care workers and domestic assistants the right to protection and to provide them free of charge,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that researchers in America, Japan and China have shown that the risk of infection with corona in the outdoor air is many times smaller than indoors;]] [[noting that the Chinese investigation even speaks of 2 out of 7,324 persons;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the freedom-limiting measures of the "and-a-half meter" in the outdoors for reasons of proportionality,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wilders, Mr Van Haga, Mr Baudet and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-353]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-354]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-355]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u407	Madam President. Finally, one more motion on that terrible discharge. We have a separate debate on this next week. With a number of other groups and colleagues, I do not think it is appropriate, at a time of mass unemployment, to set a premium for firing more people by removing the fine. That's inappropriate, that's wrong. That is why I shall table this motion again. It was already voted on last week. That's when the motion didn't make it. Hopefully now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to remove the dismissal penalty in the second economic aid package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-356]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Cabinet for the first-term response, specifically for a number of commitments. I'll mention the Prime Minister's office around the neighborhoods and village halls. In my opinion, there will be another reaction to the deadline for hearing this. But I will certainly mention Minister De Jonge's response to the source and contact research. We have had a lot of debates here about the strategy. This week's letter and the explanatory statement have given a great deal of clarity, but in addition to that strategy, implementation is very important. I realize that a lot of complicated questions have been asked for which much research has to be done, but these are questions that need to be clarified, if only about the responsibility that an employer bears when people have to stay at home, about the costs involved and about the zero-hour contracts that Mrs Marijnissen talked about. The Minister indicated that this becomes relevant especially when there are many cases. But it also becomes more relevant if the crisis lasts longer. If a vaccine takes a long time, employers may have to deal with it several times with the same employee. I will sign a motion by Mr Jetten on non-corona care scaled up towards the autumn and a motion by Mr Segers on churches. I would like to put one specific question to Minister Van Rijn, who I could have just asked in the event of an interruption. I think he has rightly said that a great deal has been done over the past two months to increase the supply of personal protective equipment. I agree with Mr Van der Staaij that this is an enormous achievement that requires respect. But is it also the case that buffers are being built up now, so that if there is another wave this autumn, we do not get back into the situation we have had? If the disease grows very big again, there must be supplies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u409	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u410	Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the cabinet for the answer. Minister Van Rijn said a few words about non-corona care. In support of this, I shall table a motion, partly thanks to the hard work of colleagues Bergkamp and Van den Berg behind the scenes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Dutch Healthcare Authority, the corona crisis is estimated to have prevented some 690,000 hospital referrals;]] [[Whereas the first corona wave has led to a reservoir of regular care;]] [[noting that, according to the Dutch Association for Cardiology, the cancellation and postponement of cardiological care already leads to between 65,000 and 100,000 years lost of patients' lives;]] [[whereas our care system has proven to be robust, but regular care cannot be re-stopped in the event of a second corona wave;]] [[considers that consideration should now be given to the organisation of regular care and corona care in the event of a second wave;]] [[calls on the Government, in the short term, in cooperation with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, medical professions and ROAZ, to come up with a plan to ensure the best possible continuity of regular care in the event of a possible second corona wave, taking into account the option that hospitals can make arrangements at regional level to treat covid patients at a selective number of locations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-357]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u411	Finally, Mr President. I would like to ask the cabinet, in the run-up to the debate on mink breeding in the letter, to explain what is being done about the measurements around the stables, because that is what people in Brabant are now most concerned about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u412	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u413	Mr President, thank you. Many thanks for the answer of the cabinet, especially to Minister De Jonge. I thought his answers about signal values gave hope. Those were good answers. I would like to ask whether it is possible that these signal values will actually be there on 1 June, so that we really know what to look at as soon as we start this relaxation. That's the first thing. It's also good to hear that within a week I'm not going to hold it until the day it could have the scaling up to the 3,000 fte. Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that ic nurses play a crucial role in providing good ic-care;]] [[Considers that the expertise of ic nurses is as valuable and indispensable as the expertise of ic-doctors, including with regard to the responsible scaling up of ic-capacity and its impact on other care;]] [[Calls on the Government to include in its plans for the structural scaling up of ic-beds, ic-meds as well as Ic-meds and to consider their respective contributions to administrative decision-making;]] [[calls on the government also to weigh the consequences of structural scaling up of ICU beds for the rest of the care chain within and outside the hospital in ROAZ, together with representatives of nurses and doctors,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Klaver and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-358]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u414	Finally, Mr President. The interrupting debate I had with the Prime Minister about capital versus labour, how the big companies are currently operating and how we support them, we are going to continue next week. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u415	Thank you. I call Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The cabinet has presented a support package for companies of 13 billion euros. We would find it a major mistake if the employer's dismissal penalty were to disappear. We will therefore support the motion tabled by the PVV on this issue. But we also understand that companies in difficulty, which are located in sectors that are extremely affected, need additional help. We support that, too. At the same time, we believe that if we help those companies, it is only natural that we ask those companies to keep their people properly in service. At a time when this is not possible for the longer term, we also see that not all jobs can be maintained. You're not gonna fire people first, because that's the order of things. Thursday is, of course, an extensive debate on this, but we have heard from the cabinet that it is continuing discussions with the trade unions on this matter and that the removal of the fine on dismissal has not been put into concrete form. We heard the Prime Minister say that, and that is why it is now time, as far as we are concerned, for the Chamber to give its opinion on this in the hope that it will produce a better result. That's why the next motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Government intends to abolish the fine on the dismissal of workers for companies applying for the NOW scheme;]] [[Whereas the purpose of the NOW scheme is to maintain employment;]] [[considers that support measures for fixed charges should be extended so that all companies suffering substantial damage due to corona can benefit from them;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the fine on the dismissal of workers for companies using the NOW scheme or its successor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-359]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u417	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the COOVID-19 virus should be kept under maximum control in the interests of public health and the economy;]] [[Whereas scientific research and guidelines of the WHO and the ECDC indicate the need to trace and isolate any possible contamination as quickly as possible;]] [[Whereas a number of lockdown measures are provided for by 1 June;]] [[calls on the Government to amend the Source and Contact Research Protocol by 1 June in such a way as to maximise its use to prevent the spread of the virus, to inform the Court of how it is actually applied by 1 June and, if necessary, to indicate why recommended measures applied in other countries are not being used in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an increase in the spread of the COVID-19 virus as a result of the relaxation of measures according to the OMT is likely to be partly compensated by effective source and contact research;]] [[Whereas, according to the OMT, it is not yet known how effective the comprehensive testing policy and intensified source and contact detection will be;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the exemption from the reporting obligation in case of suspected COOVID-19 contamination,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen and Mr Klaver. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-360]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-361]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u418	The cabinet is stopping crisis talks, and I hope that will begin a phase in which political control and public access to decisions will increase again, so that we can enter the next stage in a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u419	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u420	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. We are indeed entering a new phase and I hope that the necessary rest can be exercised in the coming days. It's always a silly joke to wish people a good Ascension. That personal ascension can wait, but I do hope there are moments of reflection and peace. It could be that churches play a role in this and I have a motion to do so. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as of 1 July, church services of up to 100 persons are possible again, with churches now focusing on the possibilities offered by this extension;]] [[Whereas churches play an important role in our society as a place for community and reflection and a source of volunteering, which justifies local customization in the formulation of meetings and activities;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to make arrangements with churches and Christian networks with a view to providing responsible local tailor-made work and perspective for the organisation of ecclesiastical activities, including youth work, and, where appropriate, to seek advice from the Outbreak Management Team,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers, Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-362]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u421	I just wanted to say thank you for all the work and rest well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u422	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u423	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the cabinet for answering our questions. I had prepared a motion to work on prevention, but the Minister of VWS says he will return to the call of those 1,600 scientists in two weeks' time. That's great. The answer to questions on slaughterhouses was less satisfactory. Things are really going south there. I do not have a motion on it, because a motion from the Party for Animals has already been adopted. The cabinet just needs to intervene. RIVM guidelines must also be respected there, so that people do not get sick there. So please take action very quickly on that point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, two motions on the lessons of Q fever, especially since we now see that it is going wrong in mink farming. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the coronavirus has been broken out among minks bred and kept in the Netherlands for fur;]] [[noting that it was initially thought that the risk of contamination of people by mink was negligible, but that this was done;]] [[noting that the Van Dijk Committee urged the government to apply the precautionary principle in future in response to the Q-fever epidemic;]] [[calls on the Government to close mink farms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Azarkan and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-363]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u424	Second and final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Van Dijk Commission, in response to the Q-fever epidemic, strongly advised the Ministry of VWS to give perseverance to infectious animal diseases as early as 2010, but that that recommendation had never been followed;]] [[calls on the Government to continue to give the Ministry of the Interior of the United States of America the power of perseverance in the prevention and control of infectious animal diseases,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Van Brenk, Mr Azarkan, Mr Krol and Mr Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-364]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u425	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u426	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Mr Van der Staaij has the floor on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u427	Madam President. I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas rules which institutions themselves lay down still significantly restrict the freedom of movement for people with physical or intellectual disabilities and with psychiatric problems, which can have a major impact on their well-being;]] [[invites the Cabinet, together with healthcare providers, to consider how to increase the mobility of people in disability care or a (protected) form of housing in a responsible manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-365]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u428	Then I would like to thank the rulers very much for the comprehensive answer. I thought the Health Minister was remarkably brief tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u429	I didn't mean to say it, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u430	No. That is, of course, because he was reading in Kuyper; at least he quoted it yesterday. Then he undoubtedly also stumbled upon Kuyper's quote that a long exhibition of facts with short attached application is contrary to the essence of prediction. That must have been it. While we're at Kuyper, there's another one for the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u431	That's it. We're gonna sit all over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u432	"The dress of penance does not dissipate the man."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u433	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u434	Mr President, thank you. Thank you also to the rulers for the answer. I was particularly pleased with the answer on the dashboard. The Minister spoke yesterday about a car. I'm glad he completed that further. I was thinking of some kind of Toyota Corona myself, but he's filled that out nicely now. I'm happy about that. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thousands of Dutch people were fined in an emergency regulation as a result of the infringement of the corona measures;]] [[noting that a criminal order may result in a legal note;]] [[noting that this may have an impact on those concerned in specific cases in the context of the application for a statement of behaviour affecting labour market opportunities;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that judicial records resulting from a criminal decision resulting from the enforcement of the corona measures can be deleted,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Van Haga, Mr Krol, Mr Baudet and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-366]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u435	Finally, the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CBS has indicated that there is an excess mortality rate of over 9,000 people;]] [[Considering that the over-death rate among people with a migration background is about 10 percentage points higher than among people without a migration background;]] [[Whereas RIVM has indicated the need for research into the reasons and causes of these events;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the reasons and causes of over-death among people with a migration background and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Azarkan, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-367]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u436	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for all the answers and in particular the Prime Minister for his encouraging words to all the elderly in the Netherlands. Thank you. My first motion is on a subject that I didn't get to in the first term. In the event of a satisfactory response, I am prepared to withdraw or hold this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities lack income because people do not have to pay their own contribution to Wmo in April and May;]] [[Whereas municipalities have to incur additional costs due to the corona crisis;]] [[calls on the government to fully compensate municipalities for the Wmo revenues they miss due to the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is particularly important in times of crisis to prevent suicide;]] [[calls on the Government to release additional funds if it is necessary to increase the capacity of 113 Suicide Prevention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-368]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-369]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u437	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to mobilise more resources to enable municipalities to value carers (extra) for their commitment during the corona crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-370]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u438	That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u439	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u440	Thank you. My first motion is about reopening the terraces tomorrow. Since the Chamber did not want to vote on it, I hope the government will take over the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that catering companies have been running low turnover for months;]] [[Whereas the corona virus is not or is hardly spread outside;]] [[Whereas catering operators could therefore safely open their terraces;]] [[whereas tomorrow is Ascension Day and the Dutch are free and it also seems to be fantastic weather;]] [[calls on the government to declare tonight that catering companies wishing to reopen their doors tomorrow will not receive fines,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas unemployment is likely to rise dramatically as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[whereas the International Affairs Advisory Council recommends that EUR 1 billion be given to African countries and that, in these circumstances, this money should be better spent or saved in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government not to make available to African countries a billion on top of the current BuHa-OS budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate possibilities for the use of hydroxychloroquine for the treatment of corona;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that hydroxychloroquine is released for the first line;]] [[calls on the Government to take action on a large scale in anticipation of the results of the investigation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to allow gyms and sports clubs to open their doors on 1 June,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-371]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-372]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-373]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-374]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u441	Two brief motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw lessons from the effective and successful fight against the corona virus in Taiwan and to consider the measures that are also applicable in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort in this economic crisis to protect the labour market position of vulnerable groups, including older workers, and to inform the Court of Justice of measures taken to that end,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-375]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-376]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u442	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the one-and-a-half-metre society is considered the "new normal";]] [[Whereas the one-and-a-half-meter rule will cause practical problems in many situations and will harm the economy and employment;]] [[calls on the Government to examine alternatives to the one and a half-metre society and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is asymmetry in the corona measures taken by the cabinet;]] [[Whereas this creates confusion and incomprehension for many citizens and entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the measures taken to date and to treat similar situations equally;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-377]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25295-378]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u443	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u444	Mr. Chairman. I'll answer a few more questions. First, Mr Azarkan's question. The answer to that question is yes. Then there is Mr Segers' question about talks with parties other than religious domes. The answer is yes. He will talk to those parties, also about how religious gatherings can take place in the one-and-a-half-metre society, and he will also involve the organizations appointed by Mr Segers, such as the Salvation Army, and others. The conversation about maintaining community centers is now foreseen next week. Then there is another consultation with municipalities, co-governments, and this will be discussed in that consultation. Finally, before I come to the motions concerning my part of the reply, there was another question about the cabinet directive on mouth caps. There isn't one. There is confusion about that directive. Here's what's important. The NEN, the independent quality institute, has offered to make recommendations for specifications of non-medical mouth caps. These recommendations were published on 19 May. This is not a binding legal framework, but it provides market and citizens with a good quality of non-medical masks. And again: The OMT, the Outbreak Management Team, has said the necessary about this in an earlier opinion on the basis of which the cabinet has said that they can contribute to limiting the spread of the virus in conditions where the 1.5 meter cannot be maintained and it has therefore made them mandatory in public transport. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 353 on the terraces open. Dissuade. The motion in part No. Abandon 355 over 1.5 meters in the outdoors. Dissuade. I refer briefly to those parts of the debate. I would like to ask for the motion in part No. 356 on the failure to remove the dismissal penalty until next week. You are aware of the government's position: we believe that the dismissal penalty should be abolished. But next week there will also be a debate, so my request to the author of the motion to item No. The same applies to the motion on item No. 356. Three hundred and ninety-five hundred and ninety-five has been detained. The motion in part No. 356 is from the PVV and that in part no. 359 is SP. If they don't hold the motions, I'm gonna have to dissuade them. Then the motion to part No. 362 on making agreements with churches. Let me get this straight. I would like to give the motion a ruling Chamber, but with due regard for what I said about it in the first term: that it will not therefore be a kind of agreement between us and the churches. It's talking and we're trying to solve the problems, but eventually the churches naturally have to meet the requirements. We cannot take final decisions on this in advance. If I may explain to her in that sense, the motion is in part no. 362 Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 366 on that judicial note. I have already explained that a note for minors is not generally a question, even if it is because the fine is less than €100, and that a single entry does not, as a rule, lead to a refusal of the vog for adults, so I advise against that motion. Then the motion to part No. 367, also from Mr Azarkan and others on over-death rates among people with a migration background. That's what RIVM's gonna look at, so I'd say "judge Chamber" on the motion in part No. 367. It's being looked at by the RIVM. Then the motion to part No. 371: the terraces open tomorrow. Dissuade, with reference to the debate. Then the motion to part No. 372 over that billion. Dissuade. We are considering a position on the AIV report. I'd like an opportunity for that. So the motion in part No. 372, I advise. Then the motion to part No. 374, which calls for the opening of gyms on 1 June. I'd advise against it. Of course, much has already been said about this. You know we're talking to the gyms. So far it's on September 1st, for good reasons. Let's see if we can do it sooner. Then the motion to part No. 377 over Taiwan. We are looking at developments in all countries. There are always similarities, but there are also often differences. There is no point in looking specifically at one country now, so I would advise against the motion in part No. ...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u445	377.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u446	Sorry, it's the motion in part number. 375. Excuse me. It's about the motion in part No. 375 by Mr Krol on lessons learned from Taiwan. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 375. The motion in part No. 376 on the protection of the labour market of vulnerable people, who is also Mr Krol's, on the other hand, I give the Chamber's opinion. We are already taking this into account as much as possible. The motion in part No. 377 on alternatives to one-and-a-half-meter society, for all the reasons I mentioned in the debate. The motion in part No. 378, I also advise against it. The principles behind the Roadmap and the measures have been explained. We are trying to achieve as much congruence as possible. That's the motion in part No. 378. In doing so, I am through the questions and the motions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u447	Thank you. The Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u448	Thank you, Mr President. The judgment on the motion in part No. I would like to leave it to the Chamber, because it is actually a very clear reflection of government policy. I could not have put it better: maximum control, follow the WHO and ECDC directives, and amend the protocol. If it's okay, protocol's already been modified tonight. It's already on the RIVM site. You're asking, we're turning, I'd like to say. Judgment Room. To the motion in part No. 361 I'd like to look another way. That reporting obligation is still there for corona determinations. He's been suspended for suspicious cases. That was done on purpose, because that had no added value at that stage because there were far too many. Reporting suspicious cases was pure bureaucracy. We're about to have an intensified testing policy. With Mr Heerma I had a debate on what we should do with those who are obviously coughing around and thus could be a danger to public health, but who refuse to be tested, while the test policy is that everyone should be tested with complaints. I have to find out, because that could require a more precise reporting obligation. But that's really something other than reintroducing the general reporting obligation for suspicious cases. That would really only add bureaucracy. I am therefore going to discourage this motion, but I have made that commitment to Mr Heerma. So I'll come back to that. The motion in part No. 363, I think, is ahead of the debate we are having. In any case, it is far ahead of the decisions we would like to take, so I am going to discourage them. The motion in part No. 364 requests the Ministry of VWS to continue to give perseverance power. That word doesn't quite fit in with the way we decide. VWS does have the lead. VWS is in the lead. It is about the zoonosis structure as it is, because the importance of public health is paramount. That is true, and that also makes it possible to make decisions in this structure. Only in part of those decisions do you need the powers of the Minister of LNV. That's why there's not some kind of perseverance force. It is not the case that the VWS Minister suddenly decides on the clearance of companies or whatever. That can't be the case. It is the Council of Ministers that takes the decisions, using the powers of either the Minister of LNV or the Minister of VWS. Only it is the Minister of VWS who has the direction in coming to that decision-making. I would therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u449	I would just like to point out that the chairman of the Van Dijk committee recently said: the way in which the cabinet explains that it would have followed the recommendation is actually a repetition of the way in which it already existed, but with a little more improvement. When Mr Jetten asked the Prime Minister what was going on, I believe the Prime Minister said: did we not arrange this perseverance? So I think the cabinet is a little more open to the idea of doing this properly than the Minister of VWS is now suggesting. I suggest we just vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u450	What the president meant to say was: direction. That's what he meant to say. I'm pretty sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u451	Then we will simply put the motion to the vote, because the analysis was correct: direction is not enough, you must also have clarity about who cuts the buttons. That could be about the policy areas of LNV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u452	We're gonna see it, but I think I've made it quite clear what it's like. We're gonna see if you think that's enough. We must, of course, take the lessons from the Q-fever period to heart. And we will. On the motion in part No. Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Segers, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber, referring to what we said about it in the first term. What's in the motion in part No. 368 by Mrs Van Brenk, is a super good idea. But we've already done that. I told you about that in the previous letter. It was about the Wmo revenue you're missing. We've already compensated for that. Yeah, what do you do with a motion like that? It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u453	Can't do what?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u454	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mrs Van Brenk say, "I'll move her in."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u455	Is that right, Mrs. Van Brenk? That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u456	In return, I leave the judgment on the motion in part No. 369 by Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van der Staaij, to the Chamber. That is in line with the commitment I made. So if 113 Suicide Prevention needs more budget to do its important work, then of course we are going to look very sympathetically at it. In this way, Mr Blokhuis is already talking to 113 Suicide Prevention. The motion in part No. I am not going to advise 370 of Mrs Van Brenk, because it really is a municipal task. We really leave that to congregations. The motion in part No. 373 of Mr Baudet and Mr Van Haga deal with hydroxychloroquine. That's a real quack move. We are not going to do that, referring to what I said about it in the first term. Mr. Chairman. That puts me through the motions. I do have a few more questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u457	Mr. Baudet, about your motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u458	The motion on hydroxychloroquine contains three elements. One is investigating. The second is the release in the first line. The third is the failure, as many other countries are doing, so that we will not be late again, as has happened in the corona crisis. Is it not possible for the government to agree to at least one of these three dictatorships? Then I may be able to modify the motion. For example, doing research. What could possibly be against that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u459	Well, nothing, 'cause we've been doing that for a long time. In that context, we have already entered the stuff that happened a few months ago, but only for use in a clinical setting, in an academic setting, in a hospital setting, just not for use in the first line. It's under investigation. The study for the time being shows that effectiveness has not been sufficiently demonstrated. In addition, it appears that the risk of injury could indeed be present. Cardiac arrhythmias, for example, are one of the known risks when used. So it's not like "don't do it, it won't hurt; look what you're doing in the first line." It's not that. It really needs to be used in an academic setting, in a hospital setting. Use outside the hospital is therefore also not recommended in accordance with the treatment directive. The IGJ oversees that treatment directive. That's only right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u460	Could the results of the investigation to which the Minister apparently refers be sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u461	Yeah, but for what purpose? A politician shouldn't sit in a doctor's chair. That's a really unhealthy affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u462	I hear an affirmative answer. So, yeah. I hear that this investigation, which is apparently done and to which the Minister refers, is apparently going to be sent to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u463	If that pleases you, I'd like to do it. But the question is: for what purpose? Because, once again, I really think that we really should leave the work of doctors to doctors for a while and then let doctors set guidelines and then let the inspection monitor compliance with those guidelines. This is how relationships work in the Netherlands. I'm attached to that. You rarely see me at a press conference freestyling about whether or not to administer hydroxychloroquine. There is a reason why politicians should not sit in the chair of a doctor. So I wouldn't know what you'd have to do with the results of using this stuff in academic setting. It's being used. It's under investigation. The treatment directive is now: do it only in a hospital setting and outside. This seems to me to be extremely sensible, and it is very sensible that the inspection should monitor this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u464	When will we receive the results to which the Minister is apparently referring? Is that what the room's gonna get tomorrow? Can we agree to that? Friday? This week?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u465	Well, if the minister says he can send it...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u466	I'd love to send it to you. I don't think there's a rush. It's also pretty easy to google, I think, because it's all kind of public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u467	But it's about the Dutch investigation. You are now apparently referring to a Dutch study that has been carried out on this subject. I'd like to have that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u468	You'll get what's available. By the way, it is the SWAB Foundation that keeps track of all this. You'll get everything you've always wanted to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u469	Then that information will be forwarded to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u470	It is not my motion, but Mr Baudet's, but I object to what the Minister has just said. I think he was talking about a quack move. Let me get this straight. I have been standing here a few weeks ago and then I told the Minister that the person concerned deserves a ribbon and not a fine. The inspection then took the view that it was a general practitioner, i.e. in the first line, in Limburg. You can remember that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u471	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u472	That gentleman treated eight people with that, and those eight people have been greatly helped. So I don't think the word quack is appropriate. It is not a politician, but someone who simply functions in the first line, a general practitioner, who has achieved tremendously good results. So I don't think it's appropriate for you to dismiss the motion as a quack motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u473	I do not think it is appropriate to promote treatments whose effectiveness has not been demonstrated, but which have been shown to involve risks. I believe that we should do this carefully and leave it in the hands of professionals who agree on the guidelines. That's all going very carefully, in a research setting. The effectiveness of this will then be investigated. Then it's said: really do it only in a hospital setting, because you don't know what you're doing when you apply it to patients who aren't suitable for it. There's just a risk of negative effects. You have to face that. That is why I do not think it is wise to praise a particular treatment in a political debate. We really shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u474	That really isn't a proper representation. It is certainly not so when I came up with it, and I do not think that Mr Baudet means that we are making something up. It was a doctor who used it. We have raised this in response to reports from that doctor. He said: it's unbelievable, but now I'm getting the inspection on my roof, which threatens even a fine if I continue to do so; I'm a general practitioner in Limburg and I've helped eight people, and without side effects they've all healed. That's a doctor, that's not a politician. As a result, we have started the debate. So you're wronging that general practitioner if you call him a quack.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u475	That was about the motion, not about the GP. The motion says: release it before administration in the first line. The treatment directive says: no, don't do that, do it in a hospital setting, because it's not without risk. So I am talking about the motion; that is what the qualification was about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u476	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u477	Yes, finally, but this is extremely important. Whether Mr Baudet was with his motion or I was before, we did not invent that treatment. That was a general practitioner who came up with this in the publicity, because he felt that his treatment had been effective in his opinion. He used it to cure nine people from corona. However, the inspection said that this cannot be done in the first line. I don't agree, but I understand how this is going. So it's not even a quack move, because we didn't make it up; it's a general practitioner who did it. I think that, apart from all the rules around it, you should talk about it with a little more respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u478	I said what I said about it. Then I have a few more questions to answer. First of all, a correction to myself in my first answer. I said the test results are always available within 24 hours, but they will be available within a day. Now it will be said that this is about the same, but if a test was taken and delivered at 9 a.m. in the morning, the results may not follow at 9 a.m. the next day, but a few hours later, because a full batch must always be delivered to the laboratory. So you're just over 24 hours. I just wanted to correct that. Here's to it. Then the signal readings. Are they finished on June 1st? Well, not on June 1st. I hope so in June. That's what I said about it. I can't make it to June 1st, because we have the tests, for example. I do hope to be able to start testing everyone on 1 June, but that does not mean that all signal values can be filled in at that time. You're gonna have to have some time experience with it, too. For example, in the case of ic-signal values and hospitalisation signals, this is less complicated. You can already make an estimate of that, but the dashboard will actually fill with those signal values only in June. We can't do that on June 1st. In the next letter, I will go into the state of play in detail. This brings me to the end of the reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u479	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u480	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There was one question from Mr Heerma. He asked if buffers could be built now. I interpret the question in such a way that it should also be built in. The answer to both questions is yes. I very much agree with him. A number of healthcare providers do that for themselves. The National Consortium Tools do that. I'm also talking to suppliers about how we can secure this for the longer term. So I very much agree with him. Then the motion to part No. 354 by Mr Wilders. We've talked about it extensively. General preventive use leads, if not necessary, to greater scarcity. That's what's bothering the care. I'd like to dissuade the motion. In the motion in part No. 357 of Mr Jetten and Mr Heerma say that we need to come up with a plan with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, medical professionals and the ROAZ. I would like to add the National Network of Acute Care to that. That's the assignment for scaling up the ic-care. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Mr Klaver and Mr Dijkhoff on the involvement of nurses and their influence in the further planning process. I have also made an extensive plea for this. I consider that to support the policy and leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-20-tweedekamer-6.u481	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I'm not ready, Prime Minister. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
