ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the implementation of Mr Kox's motion for a resolution. on the achievement of a reduction target in order to structurally reduce child poverty (34775, letter D). I give the floor to Mr Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad the Secretary of State is still with us. I do not know if there is an honorary membership of the Senate, but otherwise the Secretary of State could claim it. The reduction of poverty among children in the Netherlands has kept this Chamber busy for a long time. A motion on this matter was held here in October 2018 because the Prime Minister assured us that the government was in the process of formulating a reduction target for child poverty that the Chamber had already requested by way of a motion in 2017, but needed more time. That's the time the Chamber gave to the government. According to our system, by two June at the latest, the motion held in 2018 must be decided by this Chamber. That is why we are taking stock of the situation today. I can speak on behalf of the groups of CDA, GroenLinks, PvdA, ChristenUnion, PvdD, SGP, OSF and my own SP. If that's not "over the parties," I don't remember. The basis for the 2018 and 2017 motions was an earlier motion, from 2016. That motion asked the government to consult the ESC and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau on how there would be a coherent policy to reduce children's poverty in the Netherlands by far. This advice was published in March 2017 under the title Growing up without poverty, and was later endorsed by the Kinderombudsman in her report All children are promising. The issue now under discussion and its predecessor from 2017 have a clear request to the government: to set a quantitative reduction target so that related policies to reduce child poverty can be better assessed and adjusted if necessary. The good news is that the answer to that question is now in the affirmative. The bad news is that it has taken so long for the government to decide that it is ultimately wise to follow an urgent request from this Chamber. This Chamber is thrifty with filing and especially with the adoption of motions. That economy on our part needs to be generously answered by the other side, the government. To that generosity we also count speed. Leaving behind only makes cheese and wine better, they have taught me once, but motions must not lie down and must not be forgotten. This Chamber has shown almost Chamberwide in recent years on the child poverty dossier that it cannot accept. The stack of written and oral reports, letters from our side and reactions from the Secretary of State and reports and opinions issued at the request of the Chamber is now impressive. This was necessary in the given situation. In future, the government must respond more vigorously and generously to the expressed wishes of this part of the parliament. The reason for this Chamber, as well as for the House of Representatives, to insist on a quantitative reduction objective of child poverty is that, despite the level of child poverty in the eyes of parliament, all the good intentions and efforts of successive governments remain at an unacceptable level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u3	Sorry to interrupt. I would like to ask Members outside this Chamber for some silence. Mrs. De Bruijn, is that possible? Mr Schalk is going to look at the answer. Yeah, that's possible. Thank you. Mr Kox continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following a sharp rise in childhood between 2011 and 2013, there has been some decline, but then a rather persistent stabilisation. Both chambers consider that non-application of a quantitative reduction target makes it difficult to assess government policy and that such a quantitative reduction target should therefore be included in the government's policy in order to make it easier for the government, each government, to take account of the results of policies pursued and plans for the future. For a long time, however, the government felt that such a quantitative reduction target was not appropriate on balance. But now back to the good news. In its letter of 9 April this year, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment wrote to us, following an oral consultation with this Chamber at the beginning of this year, that the government is now willing and able to set a quantitative reduction target, given the wide-ranging desire in this Chamber. The objective is to reduce the number of children in poverty by 9.2% in 2015 to 4.6% in 2030. Translating this objective, according to the Secretary of State, means that the number of children in poverty at the end of this cabinet period will decrease to 7.2%. On the basis of the quantitative reduction target now set, the government will keep an eye on the pulse through biennial reports and assess whether the development of child poverty is heading in the desired direction and whether any adjustment of the target and/or horizon within which this figure is to be achieved is necessary. I quote from the Secretary of State's letter. The objective now set concerns the European Netherlands. For Caribbean Netherlands, the government says it does not yet have enough hard data on the number of children growing up in poverty. The Secretary of State will discuss this with the CBS, after which she will discuss with the public bodies an indicative target for this part of the Kingdom. The Secretary of State informs us in her letter of 9 April that a decrease in the number of children growing up in low-income households is not the only ambition of the Cabinet. Her ambition is also that any child who grows up in a low-income family can participate in society. To this end, the government, according to the Secretary of State, has as measurable ambition the objective of reaching all families with children in the assistance by 2021 and 70% of those with low income with children. In addition, the cabinet wants to give us a better understanding of probability poverty. In a low-income family, according to the Secretary of State, several problems often arise at the same time, for example in the areas of education, health, safety, unemployment, debt, psychological problems, social isolation of parents and low-literacy. Finally, the government wants to present good examples of tackling child poverty. On the progress of the stated objectives, the cabinet will report to the Second and First Chambers, for the first time in 2021. Although I can imagine that many in this Chamber would like to say something about the quantitative objective now set by the government and, in particular, about the level of ambition, I think it would be better not to do so today. Now that the government has proved willing to do what we want as a chamber, it is up to the government to implement that commitment in the next year's budget. In this sense, we are still in time to get our wish incorporated into the government's policy plans for next year. It would then seem wise to leave the assessment of this specific quantitative objective to our colleagues in the House of Representatives in the first instance. We can then, if we wish, shed light at the end of the year, at the General Political and Financial Reviews and at the Social Affairs and Employment budget. Then we can have the substantive debate with the government on the concrete implementation of the reduction target. It is important that the government is prepared, if necessary, to adjust the objective and timetable. Many in this Chamber will be pleased if the reduction is faster than the government is aiming at. After all, we all share the view of the Secretary of State as expressed in her letter to this Chamber of 9 September last year: child poverty is poignant and unacceptable in a prosperous country such as the Netherlands. The Secretary of State thus sets the ultimate quantitative reduction target. Also in her own words: of course I prefer that no child lives in poverty. She also shares this objective with the Alliance for Child Poverty, in which several hundred organisations are now working together. However, the Alliance believes that, by 2030, child poverty should not be halved, as the government is now aiming at, but should be reduced to zero. About the why co-founder Princess Laurentien of Orange says: if you say 50% less child poverty, what do you say to the other 50%? Can I ask the Secretary of State, without prejudging her budget for 2021, to give some consideration to the significant difference between the government's reduction target and that of the wider Alliance of Child Poverty? May I congratulate Princess Laurentien, by the way? It was her birthday yesterday. Mr. Chairman. Between the Alliance's desire for child poverty, the government's now defined reduction objective and today's reality, there is still a huge gap. Especially in the current corona age, where the socio-economic outlook is more than bleak and the risk of increasing child poverty is extremely high, it is of the utmost importance that we stick to the reduction target. This obligation can be met by all of us, in the interests of the children concerned and in the interests of society as a whole. As the Secretary of State wrote to us on 1 April 2019: "Children's poverty has a negative impact not only on the lives of children, but also on their chances. Poverty hampers their development and prevents them from making the most of their talents. In doing so, child poverty also contributes to the tightening of a division in society." Mr. Chairman. The Court looks forward to the government's reports and the proposals in the budget with great interest and will closely monitor whether the targets set are being met and, if necessary, adjusted. The Chamber also looks forward to similar objectives for the inhabitants of the BES islands, where child poverty may be an even greater problem. Finally, Mr President. If the government is going to act in this way, I assume that the Secretary of State, after her written confirmation, will also promise to do so orally today, the motion adopted here from 2017 becomes part of the government's policy and therefore the 2018 motion held here can be withdrawn. But on behalf of the groups mentioned, of course, I look forward first to the reaction of the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kox. I call Mr Wever.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u6	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the VVD Group, I would like to begin by expressing my appreciation to the Secretary of State and the entire cabinet for the efforts that have been made to reach this complex dossier of child poverty with clear ambitions. Combating child poverty, both in the Caribbean part of the Kingdom and in the Netherlands itself, is complicated and persistent. Yes, the First Chamber has been in talks with the Secretary of State for a long time and it took a long time before answers to Mr Kox's motion of 5 December 2017, which was supported by all parties with the exception of the PVV. Yes, also because of the VVD, because of course we too would prefer not to have child poverty in our country. We also want to do everything we can to reduce and preferably eliminate poverty. However, we also want to remain realistic as a VVD and we realise that there is no country in the world where, unfortunately, there is still poverty, including among adults and also among children. We also believe that the government is not only able to deal with child poverty, but that it depends on many other parties: municipalities, educational organisations, UWV, Divosa, youth care institutions and so on. In addition, the state of our economy, which is a very important factor in our country's prosperity. By letter dated 19 December 2019, the Secretary of State expressed the four ambitions of the Cabinet, namely that every child can participate in a low-income family, that the number of low-income households should show a decreasing trend, that there is a qualitative insight and that there will be a periodic review of good initiatives and examples. These ambitions have been achieved in good consultation with the VNG and have been an adequate response to the Kox motion for a resolution for our group. On 21 January this year, the ambitions of the Secretary of State and the Cabinet were discussed in an oral consultation at the joint meeting of the committees KOREL and SZW. In this consultation it became clear that very many groups wanted to give concrete expression to these ambitions, which ultimately led to a letter from the Secretary of State on 9 April last. In this report, the Secretary of State states more concretely that he intends to aim at reducing the number of children in poverty from 9.2% in 2015 to 4.6% in 2030. At the end of this cabinet period, this would mean a decrease to about 7.2%. This raises questions with the VVD Group. As I said earlier, in our view the Empire is unable to achieve this objective alone. In fact, there are greater tasks, responsibilities and powers in this area in municipalities and other institutions. Let me give you an example of the complexity associated with the State Secretary's stated ambition. I live in Heerlen, Parkstad region. That is one of the weaker economic regions in our country. According to CBS, the number of people receiving welfare benefits in Limburg is highest in Parkstad. In most of the neighborhoods in my congregation, but also in Brunssum and Kerkrade, the number is actually more different from other parts in our country. At the end of 2017, when things were getting better with the Netherlands, for example, some 517.000 people received welfare benefits. That amounts to an average of 33 per 1,000 inhabitants. In my neighborhood, it's around 80 per 1,000 inhabitants. In my time as director of Work and Income in the municipality of Kerkrade, around the period 1998-2001, and in my time as secretary of the Employment Services in that region, these figures were also so high, despite all kinds of visions we had then, policy papers, action plans and programmes. This shows, first of all, that in short, it is very complex to do something about these figures and really to bring them down. It also shows that there are great regional differences in our country and shows that municipalities really have a lot to do here. In short, poverty is a very persistent problem that can only be reduced with great difficulty on the basis of excellent cooperation between all the parties involved. In view of this, our group would like to hear from the Secretary of State whether she agrees with us that the greatest effort to reduce child poverty is not in the Empire, but in parties such as municipalities, with whom intensive cooperation will be needed. We would also like to know whether the Secretary of State intends to conclude agreements with the VNG, Divosa, educational organisations and youth care institutions in order to make concrete agreements on the effort to reduce child poverty. Mr. Chairman. As indicated, there are also major differences between regions and we are also dealing with an economy that is on average going up and down with seven-year waves. Currently in this context, the corona crisis, which is currently having a major impact on our economy. Despite excellent measures taken by the Cabinet and the NOW and Tozo schemes, we already see that applications for assistance and WW are increasing. And it is expected that this increase will increase significantly in the coming year and, depending on a second wave, in the coming years. Our question to the Secretary of State is whether it is realistic to achieve the 7.2% target by 2021. We also wonder whether it is wise to work with these specific objectives. Is this a commitment? Or how are we supposed to see this? Suppose you do not achieve the objective and we appeal to the Secretary of State, but all the dates show that municipalities were not able to take the necessary measures. By the way, those municipalities are already making substantial cuts in their framework notes and their preparation for the 2021 budget. We also have the rulings on the Urgenda judgment. It seems to me that we have learned a little from this, namely that we must be careful when we set out specific objectives, because who is going to be called upon to do so in a court of law? Here too, we would like to see a reflection of the Secretary of State. In addition to the concrete objective of reducing the percentage of child poverty, the ambition is also to focus on more work and more hours at work. We agree with the Cabinet that the best ways to combat child poverty are to keep parents at work, to spend more hours working by these parents and to provide adequate training for the children concerned. In our view, this can only be achieved if all the parties involved jointly take part in this process and make agreements on the subject. We therefore call on the Cabinet to proceed with these agreements in a speedy manner. However, we would also like to warn against excessive expectations. We really think it is a utopian idea that we can make poverty disappear completely at this time, even if I still want it so much. But we want to do everything we can to reduce it as much as possible. Mr. Chairman, I'm coming to a conclusion. The VVD Group reiterates the appreciation of the efforts made by the State Secretary and supports the ambitions expressed in the letter of 19 December 2019, but has doubts about the concreteisation of the percentages. We look forward to the answer from the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u7	Thank you, Mr. Wever. I call Mrs Moonen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u8	Mr. Chairman. The previous speakers have already discussed in detail how the Secretary of State has dealt with the Kox motion. I'm not gonna repeat that here. It has taken too long for the Secretary of State to set a quantitative target for reducing poverty, while it is known that clear objectives are needed in the policy to come up with measures that work in implementation. At the moment, life for many children in poverty is not getting any easier. The Alliance for Child Poverty writes about the fact that children in poverty are now learning retarded, and that they are also at extra risk of insufficient nutrition now that food banks have little food. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State states that it is the ambition to reach virtually all children in poverty by 2021, together with a municipal child poverty policy. This objective of achieving children is very appealing to me, but it also raises questions. Can the Secretary of State indicate what she means by the word "achieve"? When does a child find out it's been reached? What about the implementation of the ambition it has agreed with the VNG? In the city of Breda, I myself am committed to getting welfare women who are often long on welfare back to work. Indeed, when mother has a paid job again, she takes her children out of poverty. That helps. Not talking about people, not meeting with people, but actually working together with those involved and trying to get the children out of poverty. You're gonna get real people. My question to the Secretary of State is what she means by the word "achieve." Mr. Chairman. I would now like to comment in particular on the Caribbean Netherlands. The Secretary of State writes that we currently do not have enough hard data on the number of children growing up in poverty in the Caribbean. We know that in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands many children live below the poverty line, soon 30%. Because of the corona crisis, it's getting worse. I was in the Caribbean at the beginning of January this year because of the interparliamentary conference with a delegation of First and Second Members of Parliament. We visited families at home on Bonaire who live below the poverty line. The most distressing thing about the situation was actually the position of the children, especially the very young children in these families. Parents could no longer afford childcare and these children often get little or no support or security during the first four years of their lives. When they are required to study, they start with a language disadvantage. Now, with the help of the Dutch government, the programme BES(t) 4 kids has been set up to ensure that all children can go to child care, then to school and then to extracurricular care. The cabinet has also made structural funds available for this from 2020. I also heard during my visit to the Caribbean Netherlands that this is an interesting programme and that the islands are very enthusiastic about it. This is really reaching out to kids. A continuous development and learning line is emerging. This is important, especially for children who grow up in poverty. The development of the child is central. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for reaching out to the children in the Caribbean. To put it quite simply in the words of your fellow party member Pieter Winsemius, who once wrote the WRR report Trust in the neighborhood: "A child lives in four worlds: home, on the street, with friends and at school." For children living in poverty, you often see that home, street and friends do not offer the desired structure and security and that the school is often the only safe haven where structure and security are. When I was at Bonaire in January 2020, unfortunately, the programme BES(t) 4 kids was not yet able to show how they were going to work in practice. A large shortage of teachers was foreseen to enable the programme to be properly implemented. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would therefore like to ask two questions about the good programme BES(t) 4 kids. Now that we are five months away, can the Secretary of State indicate how the programme BES(t) 4 kids actually works in practice in the Caribbean? Are the children being reached? Finally, how will the shortage of teachers and childcare providers be addressed in the short term? When I was at Bonaire, those involved really indicated that that was a big bottleneck. The D66 Group looks forward to the answers with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u9	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. Does any of the Members still wish to speak in this time limit? That is not the case. Secretary of State, are you able to respond directly? You're not. How many minutes would you like to have suspended? Let's do a maximum of ten minutes, if that's all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u10	I give the floor to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u11	Thank you, Mr President. And thank you for the opportunity to speak here today on an issue that concerns not only us here, but also a lot of people in society. I am, of course, talking about the undesirableness of child poverty. The unanimity and association of the First Chamber on this subject are very well illustrated by the contributions of today's speakers, in which several groups were represented. It is now a very recognizable image for me that this is a subject with which the First Chamber of Parliament has a great deal of affinity and that it has a great deal of ambition to help out child poverty. Mr. Chairman. I have been asked a few questions; I will, of course, be happy to answer them. But above all, I would like to emphasise that I would very much like to have signed what I wrote in the letter and what has been reflected in what is now going on, namely a target to show how we are going to express quantitatively the reduction of child poverty: how do we see it for ourselves? There are also other ambitions, for example for the range. I'll say something about that later. In fact, I also guided this letter through the ministerial procedure, because I think it is very important that colleagues in the cabinet also know that poverty policy is not just one department, but that we are all in favour of this. Think, for example, of the financial perspective; it is about taxation. It's about education, about how children can get started at school. It's also about care: do we reach the children well? On many fronts, therefore, there are issues of child poverty. This also means that this letter is widely supported by the cabinet. I thank Mr Kox for his comments. Perhaps I can keep it short in that sense by saying that I fully support the choices made and in the letter. If you look at the objective, you can see that I did indeed say that he also opted for a particular methodology to................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The oral consultation with the Chamber has shown that we simply want to have an understanding in which direction it is going: can you adjust in the meantime? You have indicated that you wish to leave the choice of the measuring instrument to the government. That is why I have chosen the poverty figures of the CBS. The CBS reports every year. We're gonna see what that grade does. The reduction of the figure is based on the Sustainable Development Goals, because that is an agreement we made internationally. I hope to underline what I indicated in the letter. Mr Kox asked me a question that hits me right in the heart. He said that the Alliance wants child poverty to be zero, which I myself indicated, and he asked, "What's the difference?" I think that's exactly what we all want. If you ask "what would you like to achieve?', is the answer: that there is no child poverty in our country. So I also have a great deal of sympathy for that aim. But at the same time, and as realistic as I am, there will always be people. That's gonna be people with kids, too. We have that assistance, thank God. I am proud that we have such a provision in our country and that you do not have to be ashamed to take advantage of it. But I cannot guarantee that no one will have to use it at any time. There will also be children in a family with an income below the poverty line in 2030. I think it is very important that these children, that these families, have as short an income as possible below that low income limit. That is the ambition, which is also reflected in the letter: to commit to work as a way out of poverty. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Wever asked: can you not conclude agreements with other parties? It is true that I have just argued not only to Social Affairs to bring this issue to a successful conclusion. At least I can turn him in: we will. We have administrative agreements with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, about how you deal with the funds that the previous cabinet has made available. This cabinet has continued to do so. So that's what we've agreed on. We are also being critically followed by the media, because it is one of the jars on which the NRC focuses, for example. So we get information about this from different sides, but of course we do it ourselves. For example, we also have grant agreements with the funds that help us to get behind the front door. I have just outlined that other colleagues also have important objectives to contribute to reducing poverty. I can only stress that the cooperation between the Empire, municipalities and certainly civil society and private organisations, let us not forget it, is of great importance. Then Mr Wever asked for the target to reach 7.2% in 2021. That is, of course, a question of conscience. It's also a very special time. I have indeed included in the letter a passage about the effect of the corona crisis, because we see that every day. It will also have a very significant impact on this issue. Let me put it this way: I have also heard very well in the oral consultation with the Chamber that the Chamber would like to have an insight into where we are going. If you don't set a bar anywhere, it's pretty hard to measure where you stand at the end of the day. That is why I think it is important to set a longer-term target for 2030, but you also need to calculate back to see where you stand. Mr Kox has already pointed out that this is also going to happen with the forthcoming budget. We will send reports, so any MP can see if the targets are being met. Let me illustrate it for myself perhaps very domestic. I was recently, before the corona crisis, in Zuid, Rotterdam-Zuid, where Marco Pastors has a rather intensive approach to all kinds of social and social issues. One of the themes that played there was raising the Cito scores. They wanted to increase the Cito scores in Rotterdam-Zuid, because they are low in comparison with the G4 and with the rest of the Netherlands. Increasing the Cito scores was a very explicit target. I was thinking, if there's something fluid or it's hard to influence, it's a Cito score. However, this had become a kind of guiding principle for the organization. There was a large Excelsheet on the wall of the workspace and all kinds of factors were monitored that influence how children are present at school and how their parents are involved. Over the years, you really saw the Cito scores go up. That was for me the moment I thought it would be good to cross that bridge. It has also made it an enormous incentive to actually set out a roadmap to monitor whether we are on the right track. In doing so, Mr Wever cut the question of what would happen if someone went to court. In this context, we held a wide-ranging debate during the oral consultations. Bearing in mind that oral consultation, I have included a passage on this in the letter. With this target, we want to encourage parties and ensure that cooperation is established. We want to see if it works out and keep the finger on the wrist. We also want to see if we are on the right track with each other to reduce child poverty. But I have also included in the letter that it is explicitly not intended as a legally enforceable figure. The desire to see if we are on the right track is what I am trying to do by also joining the sustainable development goals. Mr. Chairman. The other objectives also remain, such as reaching the children: 100% of the children in welfare and 70% of the children in low-income families. Mrs. Moonen asked for this. The first is relatively simple, because municipalities know who is in the welfare bins and therefore also whether or not children belong there. This means that municipalities can proactively offer these children an offer. At the same time, it is quite difficult for people on low incomes who are not in welfare. A lot of people don't know there's any help for them at all. I have been to work in Amersfoort, a municipality with a very active poverty policy and a range of initiatives that people can take advantage of. There are campaigns all over the city and yet the threshold to go to the municipality is quite large. That is also why we work with the foundations and the funds, which we also subsidise from the Ministry, precisely in order to reach people properly. I'm assuming we're gonna make it to 70%. Mrs Moonen also called for attention to the BES. I am very glad that she did so in this debate. Mr Kox referred to it and I wrote about it in the letter. It is of the utmost importance that we translate the way we deal with child poverty here one-on-one to there. We are also taking steps on the social minimum. I also expect to send the progress report to the Chamber shortly. Ms Moonen specifically asked how the programme BES(t) 4 kids ran. Are the children being reached? This programme is carried out in consultation with the ministries of OCW, VWS, BZK and SZW. We will see if we can really reach the children with this kindergarten, give them warm meals and take good care of them so that they can actually go to school well equipped at the age of four. We're at the beginning. The first steps are taken. There too, of course, they suffer from the corona crisis, but I understand that childcare is open again and children can go back to school. I also sent a comprehensive letter to the Chamber in April, to which I would like to refer mostly. I think it is particularly important that we also look together with the public body at how we can give hands and feet to this arrangement in order to reach as many children as possible. Mr. Chairman. I believe that I have answered the questions with this and otherwise I am happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u12	Thank you, Secretary of State. Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u13	I thank the Secretary of State for her clear answer. Sometimes you have to cross the bridge. That's not wrong at all. And in order to measure, you need a measuring bar. Those are two statements made by the Secretary of State. After the written commitment and its confirmation in the Chamber of the First Chamber, so that it becomes part of the legal history, the wishes of the Chamber become part of the policy. I am extremely pleased with that, even though it has taken a while. I am extremely pleased that the Secretary of State says that it is not only part of her policy, but also of government policy. The fight against child poverty is a matter that concerns the entire government and parliament, I add. With the Secretary of State's promise, the entire Chamber can be satisfied. I propose that the motion that was held in 2018 be withdrawn. Thank you and thank you to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u14	Since the motion-Kox c.s. (paragraph ) has been withdrawn, it shall no longer matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u15	Mr. Chairman. I have one more outstanding question for the Secretary of State. I thank her for what she said about how to reach children, including in the Netherlands, through municipalities and civil society organisations. I can clearly hear that in the answer. There's a clear ambition in that. But I am referring to the program BES(t) 4 kids. When I was in Bonaire in January of this year, it was reported that there was a shortage of teachers and childcare workers. That's a big bottleneck. The scheme is very good, that program BES9(t) 4 kids, but if you don't have people for the class, you can't run it. My question is how does the Secretary of State intend to solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u16	It is clear that there are a number of steps to be taken. This is one of them. It is one of the reasons why we are working with public bodies, but also with the people from the sectors themselves. If Mrs Moonen is okay with that, I will include this signal. The project leaders and the people on the steering group meet on a very regular basis. I will ask them what the state of play is. I can possibly include this in the progress report on the social minimum, which I send to the Chamber, or in another letter. I might be able to send it to you in a different way. I do not have any specific information on the state of play at the moment, but I would like to take the signal with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u17	I would indeed like to see an answer to the specific issue of the shortage of teachers, at an appropriate time and in an appropriate letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u18	Sure. If it is also about teachers, I will take it up with the colleague from Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u19	Thank you, Mrs Moonen. We have come to the end of this item on the agenda. None of the Members wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-eerstekamer-10.u20	I thank the Secretary of State.
