ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is oral Question Time. We will begin today with Mr Wilders' question on behalf of the PVV to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would also like to welcome, about rent increases. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you, Madam President. If you're looking for a social rental house, you're on the waiting list for years. And once you've got a place, you'll get a rent increase after you get a rent increase. No less than 800,000 tenants were already in financial straits before the corona crisis broke out due to the much and much too high rents. And what does this minister do? Lower the rents? No way! She didn't want to. At least freeze? Forget it! She didn't want to. No, this minister would like to kick the tenants a little further into the financial abyss by increasing the rents even more. It happened, and it didn't. It is the highest rent increase in six years, according to CBS. That's a record. It's a record increase in rents, and that in corona time, in crisis time. And that while so many Dutch people have been in great financial trouble. And that while so many tenants have unprecedented difficulty to raise the rent. I repeat, the highest rent increase in six years. It's unheard of. It's outrageous. In fact, I find it rude to give people that right now. There are no words for it. Twice, the First Chamber has adopted a motion to at least freeze the rents. But this undemocratic minister didn't care. A motion of censure was even adopted at that time in the First Chamber, but this undemocratic minister is also unaware of that. And she's got most of them, and that's probably the worst thing about all those tenants who can't make ends meet anymore. This minister doesn't care at all. This cabinet gives billions to the Italians and the Greeks, but leaves our own people in the lurch. What the hell are you doing, Madam Secretary? Hence my question: reverse the rent increase; do not leave our people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to Mr Wilders, who is asking the question here today. Let me begin by saying that when this cabinet took office, we said that it was extremely important for everyone in the Netherlands to be able to participate and to benefit from the restoration at that time. We are now in a crisis because of the coronavirus and the economic outlook is very different, but the perspective of the cabinet has not changed at all in this respect. We want everyone to be able to participate and everyone to be able not only to tie the strings, but also to have something left in their wallet at the end of the month. That was the starting point and that is still the starting point. Mr. Wilders is pulling out the tenants as a group. That is a very relevant group and I have always said that I am paying attention to it. But those tenants aren't uniform; they're not all the same. You have tenants with a good income, who can pay their rent well. But you also have low-income tenants, for whom it is difficult to pay both the rent and the other charges they have. Indeed, they are struggling to make ends meet. In the debate on rents, which has been taking place in this Chamber and across the street since spring, I have always said that I have an eye for the tenants who are getting into trouble. Firstly, those tenants who were already in acute financial difficulties during the corona crisis. We try to help them not only with the general instruments, with the so-called emergency package or crisis package, but also by saying to the landlords: be generous, help them, adjust your rent and solve it. That's what's being done. Secondly, I said that we should also look at how it is developing. At some point we are going to look again at the purchasing power of all groups, and we are going to see how the real rent increase has actually developed. And here's what I'm gonna find out. The rent increase published by the CBS two days ago is actually the most moderate in years. Sitting tenants have a rent rise that is lower than inflation. That hasn't happened in years. Mr Wilders will then say: what do these people have, because an increase in inflation is also an increase. I agree with him, but we should not forget that this increase in inflation is also corrected by other instruments, for example through benefits, for example through the rent surcharge. I think that Mr Wilders has a point when he says: have an eye for those people who, despite all this, cannot save it and cannot make ends meet. Although I cannot anticipate Princess Day, certainly not in this Chamber under the eyes of this President, I would like to refer to next week, when the Cabinet will propose all over-sighted measures. That's how I announced it in the First Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u5	What an incredibly bad and lame story of this minister. My mailbox was full of messages from people who even saw their rent rise by 4% to 5%. Those people don't have your salary, Madam Secretary. They don't drive around in a fat service car. They have to turn every euro around to make ends meet at the end of the month. That is their reality. 50% of all tenants have trouble getting around and no less than 30% of all tenants already have late payments. And then there comes some foreign world minister from D66 who doesn't give a damn about it, who says to the people with a high rent, "look at it," and who makes it even worse. Madam Secretary, you have no idea what ordinary people are going through in this time of crisis. You've been completely disenchanted from reality. Even if I listen to your answers, I can tell. Mr. Chairman. This Minister is also totally disregardful of Parliament. I told you, motions to freeze the rents arrogantly ignore them. Even a motion of censure passed, she's just pissing them off in the trash. You are not a democrat with a view to the people, Mrs Ollongren. You're an elite Minister of Social Affairs. It's really hard to explain what you're doing. Your cabinet, the cabinet to which you belong, the Rutte cabinet, gives tens of billions to the citizens of half Europe to help them through the crisis, to support the people in those other countries. But our own people here in our own country now have to tighten the belt and get one rent increase after another for their choice. What the hell are you doing? You're just gonna choke on them. You must stand up for our people instead of the people abroad. Stop it, help the people, solve their problems and finally get rid of the rent increase, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u6	Mr Wilders is very "we against them." I don't. I've always said I have an eye for the interests of tenants. I look very closely at specific groups in there. I cannot anticipate it, but as a cabinet we have always announced that, in August, if we had all the data, we would look at purchasing power and needs and then we would come up with measures. It's supposed to be on Prince's Day. Mr Wilders walks with us long enough here in this Chamber to know that. So I find it unfortunate that I'm standing here a week before Prince's Day and having to talk a little bit of flour in my mouth, but it's no different. But I repeat what I said: when I see that the people in a social housing unit who have too high a rent in relation to their income are indeed the group that is in danger of getting into trouble, I think we should do something about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u7	I have Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Koerhuis, Mr Nijboer, Mrs Van Eijs, Mrs Bromet, Mr Terpstra and Mr Van Otterloo. Please keep your distance from each other. I'm going first to Mrs. Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u8	This minister knew better. She knew better than all the thousands of tenants that move. She knew better than all the proposals we made here. She knew better than the First Chamber, where a motion of censure has indeed been passed. That hasn't happened in a century and a half. A motion of censure has been passed in the First Chamber, but this minister knew better: a moral appeal and customization should be the solution to prevent the rent increases. And what do we see? The Minister has failed in this very hard. The rents have exploded. She cannot get away with this by referring now to Princess' Day and saying: I find it so unfortunate that I have to answer here a week in advance. Of course she does. She failed, and we want to know what she's gonna do to reverse that rent increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u9	I have, of course, already said a few things to Mr Wilders about this. I want to repeat once again that the rent increase is just... So that gives the picture of inflation plus a small bit of rent increase. For the sitting tenants, it's inflation minus. As far as I am concerned, therefore, the picture presented by Mrs Marijnissen is not the real picture of rent increases. If Mrs Marijnissen says that motions have been passed in the First Chamber, that is true. I am also very often in a debate about this with the First Chamber. In this Chamber, of course, I am not talking about motions from this Chamber that have not been carried out. After all, the political primacy lies here, so these motions have all been properly carried out. But I would like to repeat what I said in the debate with the First Chamber, namely that I think it is wise not to treat all tenants in the same way. A generic rent reduction, across the board, has all kinds of undesirable effects, including for tenants, especially for tenants who are on waiting lists and for those who are no longer built. I think that's really, really unwelcome. So when I stand up for the interests of the tenants, I also think of those tenants and also those people who are now on the sidelines, who are on a waiting list and have no home. We have to keep an eye on that, too. I think it is right and I repeat what I have just said: 'The tenants who are really in trouble must be able to count on something being done for them too'. I intend to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u10	Your second question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u11	I find this really insufferable. The Minister is still sticking to her own story, despite all the warnings and despite the fact that things are going so badly now. Because the rents have exploded, Mrs. Ollongren. So you failed in your approach to that customization. That doesn't work. It would be a good thing not only to acknowledge that, but also to indicate here what you are going to do to accommodate those people, to reverse that rent increase. Minister Ollongren's party is campaigning with the slogan "freedom for everyone, but we're not dropping anyone." But Minister Ollongren is dropping thousands of tenants here. Hard as hell to drop them! And as far as I'm concerned, she's not gonna leave today saying, "Yeah, we're gonna look at Princess's Day what we're gonna do." There's a very clear assignment, including from the First Chamber. It must be respected. I therefore ask the Minister once again. A generic freezing of the rents is what needs to be done now. The illegal rent increase is what it is: an illegal rent increase must be reversed. I'm asking the Minister how she's going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u12	Perhaps I can repeat what I said to Mr Wilders. On top of inflation, the rent increase noted by the CBS is very limited. For sitting groups it is lower than inflation. Will it be corrected for tenants? Yeah, part of it. This can be done in different ways, for example through the rent allowance or through the benefit. Let us not pretend that this is exactly the same for everyone, but let us not pretend that there are no people coming into trouble. I agree with Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Wilders and everyone who is going to say something to the interrupting microphone: the groups of tenants who do not have the means to improve it, who cannot be helped enough by the instruments available and who have low incomes and high rents, are really getting in trouble. Those are not all tenants in the Netherlands, but they are specific groups, which I would like to do something for. I said that in the First Chamber, but I would like to repeat that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u13	Rental prices are rising, purchase prices are rising. We all know that this is because we have too few houses because we have to build, build, build. We also know that the biggest bottleneck is that there are too few construction sites. My question to the Minister is: what is the Minister going to do about this news so that we can build additional houses?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u14	Fortunately, Mr Koerhuis and I often have the debate on this, because I agree with him. One of the problems and causes of the scarcity is that too little has been built in recent years and that we are facing a huge catch-up in the construction of homes. That has to be done across the board. We're talking about tenants here. There are also many people who rent, but who actually want to be a starter. So we also have to take care of the starters. We need to get the flow going. That means, across the board, there's gonna be more space. Keep building, give it an extra boost and see what obstacles there are, is absolutely the cabinet's priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u15	I really feel like the minister has no idea what tenants are going through. A quarter of the tenants in social housing do not get around at the end of the month. It was before the corona crisis, but it's gotten worse. That quarter can't make ends meet at all and doesn't have anything left, even though the cabinet had promised it. In the free sector students and just graduates pay themselves all blue. More than half of their net income goes to the rent, but the minister says: this is the most moderate rent development I've seen. While yesterday we could read that in six years the rents have never gone so far up. Why doesn't the Minister do anything about it? Why doesn't she see what the real people's problems are? Why does she look so far away from the political majorities that exist both in the Lower House and in the Upper House?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u16	I'm sure you don't mind my restricting myself to the House of Representatives. After all, that's why we're here. Exactly what Mr Nijboer says is exactly what I repeat. My concern lies with those groups of tenants who are really in trouble, who are no longer able to make ends meet and who have no opportunity to improve their income further compared to the high rent they have to pay. We must also have a solution for this. That is something else than, across the board, about all tenants throughout the Netherlands, saying that a rent increase that is broadly in line with inflation cannot be achieved. We are dealing with the same parties that need to build homes for people on waiting lists, the same parties that need to make homes more sustainable and maintain them. I am therefore asking Mr Nijboer to look more broadly too, and I know that his party usually does so, because of the importance of all people in the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u17	Your second question, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u18	The Minister pretends that a few people, who are very exceptional, are in trouble with the rents. No, in the Netherlands almost all tenants currently have problems getting around. It's really a huge social problem that you pay for your net income in rents. And the housing shortage is only increasing. That is because the cabinet does not do enough; the minister is right about that. But as long as it doesn't happen, something has to happen for the tenants. I do not understand why we cannot tell the Minister that this problem lives much wider than with a few small groups of people who cannot afford the rent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u19	I did not say how big that group was; that makes Mr Nijboer. I just defined the group and said we should do something about it. I am sure Mr Nijboer agrees with me that we should always look at the whole of people's income development. It's not just about what exactly people have to pay for rent and how rents develop; it's about how people's incomes develop and what other permanent burdens people have to pay for that same income. So it's really about the whole picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u20	I am glad to hear the Minister say that she is going to look at those groups that really cannot make ends meet; that is the first. But they're all averages now that we're looking at together. Of course there are landlords who moderate their rents and take into account the financial position of their tenants. But there are also landlords who ask for a much higher rent increase than we would like to see. This is not limited, especially in the free rental sector. There is a proposal to limit these excessive rent increases. So I ask the Minister: when is this proposal going to be made and how is it going to help to reduce the average rent increase and ensure that these excessive rent increases can no longer occur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u21	That is, of course, a good point from Mrs Van Eijs. It thus indicates that the groups in the housing market are indeed different. This is also part of it. It is a certain group in the housing market that can get into trouble, right where there is tightness and where rents in new rentals increase enormously, sometimes excessively. This is something on which I regularly exchange views with Mrs Van Eijs and other spokesmen. We have indeed said that we must take action against this. They'll be here as soon as they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u22	What if you're a tenant? Your income comes into your bank account and you have to choose, just like every month, whether you go shopping first and then pay the rent, or vice versa, that you pay the rent first and then can't do enough shopping. And imagine, for example, that you've lived like this for three years. The Minister has been Minister for three years. She's got six months left. What would the minister say to a tenant like that, if he were in front of her, about how it's gonna go next month?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u23	Exactly what I actually said. These are those people who seem unable to improve their income position and who cannot be compensated by the instruments I mentioned, for example the rent payment or an inflation correction in the benefits. Net assistance payments, for example, are rising slightly more than inflation. So it depends very much on the specific situation. It may then eventually be left with people who have not been helped by it in any way, on the left or on the right. In spring, we started to speak mainly in response to the corona crisis. Then it was about people who were acutely in trouble because of the crisis. For them the route was actually: go to the landlord and try to make an arrangement there. This has not been achieved in many cases, fortunately, in all cases. But now we are dealing with a group of people who have been in financial difficulties for a little longer and who are now, of course, far more difficult to improve than in the time when the economy was involved. For that particular group, as far as I'm concerned, we have to do something. But again, I cannot entirely anticipate proposals that may come next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u24	The CDA Group can well imagine that it is a shock when you are faced with a rent increase of 3% or sometimes 4%. It is therefore good to hear from the Minister that the cabinet is going to come up with measures to help those who are really in trouble. But one of the reasons why rents are also rising very much is that apartments or houses that come back on the market in the private sector are put on the market much more expensive. Then you're talking about the so-called initial hires. Starters sometimes pay hundreds of euros more when they start renting a new apartment. Is the Minister willing to do anything about those initial hires? Does she wish to include this in the bill that Mr Van Eijs has just spoken about, in order to ensure that excessive increases are addressed by the phenomenon of initial hiring?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u25	I see this problem. Mr Terpstra has spoken about this before and has also mentioned examples. It's a bit on his Johan Cruijffs, but every downside has its advantage, because we're seeing something happening in the housing market now because of the corona crisis. There seems to be air in the middle and more expensive rental market. So I expect to see less of those big jumps. Nevertheless, we have already said to each other that we would like to look at this. To what extent you really want to intervene in that, because it is of course very situationally dependent, we still have to discuss with each other, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u26	Then I have Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Azarkan and Mr Bishop. First Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u27	The Minister talks about groups getting into trouble and she says that inflation is being compensated, but pensions are not going up. If it's up to the cabinet, it won't go up for another eight years. That means that for all those people the problems are getting bigger. This is not only the case at the bottom, but also at the middle hires. If people have responded to the call to leave their large house and go to a smaller house in the middle rent, they are now facing a substantial rent increase. I think it's an unfair accusation that there's less housing if the rent increase doesn't go through. It is the landlord's tax that ensures that the corporations have too little space to build houses, not the space of the rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u28	That was a statement by Mr Van Otterloo, I think. You may respond, but otherwise I will go to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK and then to Mr Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u29	We have had many debates here with each other and with the Minister, and it seems as if there are two worlds. On the one hand, I see a lot of people in the Chamber, social housing companies, scientists and people who really know how to rent them. They all say one thing: this is not going well. But the Minister simply has a different reality. It looks like she's on a train and says: I'm the boss on this train and I'm actually fine. Is it not for the Minister, now that we have a headwind, now that things are really not going well, and now that we see that Corona is gonna get an even bigger group in trouble, aren't we going ahead? Why doesn't she just say that next week she'll come up with measures to meet the worst needs if everyone's been saying for a long time: "Do something about it"? The problem is much bigger than the minister by preventing it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u30	In the spring, I said in several debates, particularly on the other side, that the cabinet chose not to take a generic measure for all tenants that is not necessary for every tenant. But we do have a lot of other generic policies. The whole crisis package - the first part of it, the second part of it and its follow-up - is precisely designed to support generic incomes of people and to retain jobs, or to create jobs or to train people for new jobs. That's generic policy. Inside, I would like to make specific policies for tenants who are in trouble. This applies first and foremost to the people directly affected by the crisis. We have done so by moving landlords to cope with them and by allowing temporary rent reductions; that was also a specific measure. Now we are looking, as I said, at groups within the large group of tenants, who cannot improve themselves and who otherwise simply don't make ends meet. That is the policy advocated by the cabinet. That may not be the case with Mr Azarkan, but that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u31	During the previous cabinet period, we had to deal with miserable economic conditions. There has been intervention in the housing market and the landlord levy has been introduced. Then, until the corona crisis in any case, we had booming business. Excuse the English term, Chairman. We've had a growing economy. The rents have continued to rise. The Minister now says she's going to do all kinds of things. My question is actually very simple. Can the Minister explain what has happened in the past period, so in the years that it went well, has been done for the benefit of the tenants? We may have all kinds of intentions, but the best proof is what's been done. Or is there still a lot to be done in the last six months of the administration of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u32	There is certainly a great deal to be done in the last six months of this cabinet period, not least because of the fact that the corona virus has brought us into a situation that we had not anticipated. This has made the economic outlook very different. At the beginning of my reply, I said that the cabinet said from the beginning: improving purchasing power for all, across the board, then still benefiting from the economic recovery. In the meantime, we are not in a phase of economic recovery, but in an economically difficult period, but with that the perspective remains the same. We are paying attention to improving the purchasing power of everyone and, in particular, to the groups that have just been mentioned. Moreover, I would like to add the elderly and also the people in the rent who cannot improve. What's been done for the tenants? I would like to mention two things. Firstly, the landlord levy, which was also mentioned earlier. I sent a comprehensive letter to your Chamber just before the summer, on the proposal of then MP Ronnes, in which we outline the long-term effects of the landlord's tax on investment capacity. We can do that in the short term, but in the long term it will run out of investment capacity, so that issue is indeed before us. The other is the social lease agreement concluded by the housing corporations themselves. That does what needs to be done for tenants, namely to ensure that those rents remain manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u33	The question that has not just been asked, but which I would like to stress, concerns the elderly, who have not been indexed for years and cannot expect an indexing of their pensions in the coming years either. What's the minister gonna do for that group? It also gets in trouble because of the rent increases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u34	A number of questions touch very much on the area of my colleagues, particularly Mr Koolmees, when it comes to pensions, the AOW and the elderly. Let me say that I can well imagine that people with a small pension also belong to the group I have just mentioned: low income, which cannot improve, which is not helped with those other instruments and with too high rent. I would like to do something for that, but I have to refer to next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-08-tweedekamer-2.u35	Thank you.
