ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Peters, on behalf of the CDA, for his question to the Secretary of State for Social Affairs and Employment, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the fact that more and more young people are receiving assistance. Mr. Peters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. The cost of the corona crisis is to a large extent borne by young people. Figures from the CBS show this. The NIS reported on that, too. The biggest bill is for the most vulnerable young people. The position of young people is already difficult, because of the loan system, because of flex jobs, because of a difficult situation on the housing and labour markets, and this crisis will come to an end. Jobs disappear, displacement threatens. That's not just a problem, that's a disaster in slow motion. How are we going to prevent problems from getting so big that they can't be solved at all? Does the Secretary of State see the urgency and if so, what is his approach to providing young people with prospects for a bright future? Mr. Chairman. I have three specific groups and some questions. Firstly, the group of students who do have to work because of the loan system. Is in the picture how big their problems are because they can't work now because the work isn't there? How high does their collective debt grow? What can the Secretary of State do to help these people? Secondly, the group of low-skilled young people who are now fired and want to get back to work. They run the risk of being replaced by jobseekers with higher education. Everyone pays the bill for this crisis, but people with the least chances always pay the most. Does the Secretary of State share this conclusion and what actions does this lead him to? Thirdly, Mr President. What about young people who had work but no longer, who do not go to school and who are less than 27 years old? They are often not even eligible for a benefit. Is this picture of me, according to the Secretary of State? Are these people in the picture? What do they live on now? And what can we do to make sure these people don't get and stay in debt and masse?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State. I think this is your first gig. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes. So thank Mr Peters for letting me stand right here on day one. But the trigger is serious enough. Mr Peters is right to point this out. We all know that the corona crisis affects our society in health and that it also has social effects and certainly economic effects. Especially for vulnerable groups, this means that there are difficult times ahead. We can see the first signs of that. Mr Peters points out the figures we have seen recently that we see an increased influx of assistance, particularly among young people. He is right to ask what the cabinet will do about it. Last Friday, the cabinet presented a support and recovery package. This is about how we proceed with the emergency measures. In addition, there is a package of €1.4 billion of accompanying social policies, mainly aimed at keeping people at work and investing extra to get people back to work. We have included, precisely because of Mr Peters' concerns, that we are going to devote 350 million specifically to youth unemployment. We are now working hard on the plans for this, also in cooperation with all those involved: municipalities, social partners, educational institutions, etc. That is exactly what Mr Peters is calling for. I think we can give it a more concrete effect around Prince's Day. Then you had specific questions about the students. Of course, we invest widely in our debt approach. When it comes to their situation in relation to the loan system, I would like to pass on this question to my colleague from Education. 'Cause I don't have that here. Mr Peters asks whether I also see the risk of displacement. A lot of people are getting unemployed. People who already have a weaker position and are less likely to compete with very promising people. This applies not only to young people, but also, for example, to people with disabilities. We have taken so many important steps in recent years. That is why we also have specific attention for these groups in the package that we are further developing. Then your last question, about young people under the age of 27. Municipalities have that group well in mind. They can have a monthly overview of who are the young people who do not work, but who do not receive benefits and who do not go to school. They can actively reach out to that. I have a lot of contact with the municipalities in the further development of the plans. I think it would be a good idea to bring this particular point to their attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you. Your Excellency, I am pleased to have been able to have you here for the first time on this important subject. I'm glad you're making it clear that you can see the problems. I also understand that the question about students is going to be continued. However, I would like to ask you about the people who are less than 27 years old, people whom we all say: whether you are working or studying, and there are no more flavors. These people worked, they didn't study. Now they don't work and they're nowhere. You're saying they should be in the public image. I wonder. I'm asking the Secretary of State if he can promise that we'll get an overview of what's happening to these people, because I'm really worried. Not only that they don't work, but also that they don't have anything to live on. How's that going? Municipalities do have people in the card boxes, but often they don't, because they're not yet 27, is my experience. I'd like a response. Then there is the piece of low-skilled young people who are now fired and want to get back to work. I understand there's a plan for that. I would like to discuss this action plan here once to see what is happening now and whether we can do what we all want, because here there is a real disaster in slow motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	I very much agree with you. Your first question was whether you could get more information about it and how it works. I'd like to promise you that. I would also like to assure you that, in the coming weeks, I will draw attention specifically to this group in this regard with the municipalities. By the way, we have also agreed with the municipalities that even after the new policy has been accepted by the Chamber and we are going to implement it, every two weeks to sit together to exchange signals. I'll keep it in mind. Mr Peters says: pay attention, there is a very vulnerable group here. There are already tailor-made possibilities for this, but this is a specific group that you will need to pay extra attention to in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	I am sorry, Mr President, but I would just like to comment on the answer that there are opportunities for tailor-made work in municipalities in all areas. My experience isn't that it's always used, let's just say. I want to ask that explicitly about this group: they don't work, they don't study, they don't have anything and I know they're not in the picture either. I would very much like to know. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. My CDA colleague Hilde Palland recently, together with the CDJA and CNV Young people, advocated an offensive against youth unemployment. That was at the beginning of this corona crisis. I think this is more urgent now than ever. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include the proposals of these three parties in the action plan that is to come and which we are yet to discuss?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	Sure. We will need each other and all the good ideas to get what comes to us to land as best we can, but we know that we will not be able to prevent everything. I'm gonna take a look at the plans, and I'm sure I'll take them with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	Thank you I hope to avoid the disaster in slow motion together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Peters. Then you can sit down again. I have Mr Jasper van Dijk, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Renkema, Mrs Van Brenk, Mr Gijs van Dijk, Mr Kuzu and Mr Bruins. Is that right? Yes. I shall go first to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	A new secretary of state gives new opportunities, even if he's from the VVD house, let me put it this way. He has a ludicrous subject, poverty, and therefore the corona crisis, which mainly causes young people and masse to end up on the streets. Is he prepared to list in the short term what he is going to do in the next nine months when he is still Secretary of State in this area to tackle this growing problem of youth poverty? As you can see, the municipalities are crying out for extra resources. They have been cut by two thirds on the reintegration budget for the last ten years, so there's really something to do here. Is this brand-new Secretary of State gonna tell us what he's gonna do in his term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Fortunately, this Secretary of State can fall back on a lot of well-deserved policies of my predecessor, Tamara van Ark, where many things have just become even more urgent due to the corona crisis. This is certainly true when it comes to poverty and debt relief policies. I'm just looking for all kinds of different letters. In the package we presented on Friday, just for this point, we made a separate cup, poverty and debt, at 146 million. I am also working on this together with municipalities. I thought I heard Mr Van Dijk say, and he is quite right: giving money alone is not enough, it must be done, and it must be done quickly. I can imagine this, but I still have to discuss it in the Cabinet. There will be an elaboration of this whole package. Then I will talk to this Chamber with all my love, especially about this section. On Monday, I started the campaign to seduce people to, if they get into debt, please seek help quickly. I have had very intense discussions with the experience experts on this matter. That motivates me very much to get to work on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	It is right to draw attention to the major problem of young people without work, but in other debates we are again talking about institutions without staff, and I am thinking in particular of the care sector. Would it not be possible to make an extra effort to get young people who currently have little perspective even with a course of additional training towards those sectors where they can enjoy and where there are just a lot of opportunities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	Sure. I think that Mr Van der Staaij is making a very graphic picture here, which is actually one of the main lines of the whole package that we presented on Friday. Let us avoid putting people in a welfare or benefit situation, especially when we see that there is work in other places. Sometimes that requires a little more investment, sometimes small adjustments. We want to do this in particular in the labour market regions. In fact, the philosophy must be: it doesn't matter whether you're in the UWV or in the municipality: we're just going to see what's needed for you. Last week I had a good talk with Rutger Groot Wassink, the GroenLinks alderman of Amsterdam. He indicated how in a very clever way he guides many Uber drivers who are currently in bad shape to courier jobs and distribution. That whole sector is growing like cabbage. With a small step, those people can be put to work there. I think that that kind of good ideas is very much needed, because it is best to prevent people from losing their jobs at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	Mr Peters said a disaster in slow motion. And it certainly is. However, a crisis is sometimes also an opportunity. I would like to add my voice to Mr Van der Staaij's question. GroenLinks said last week: we would really like to have a crisis income. In the case of assistance, this would mean that young people who are now losing their jobs could simply go full-time into MBO or HBO training in such a deficit sector for three years. Think about the care, think about the education, think about the police. But the Participation Act actually makes that impossible, because you need to be continuously available for a job offer from the labour market. It doesn't make it easy for you to go to college. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate whether it is possible to use such a crisis income, the assistance, for three years to retrain you and to adapt the Participation Act to areas where it is really difficult?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	Let me rephrase. How do I want to deal with preventing people from getting into welfare and helping people from job to job? We'll also see if there's any practical obstacles in the way. It's a little too soon for me, of course, it's a clever attempt to embrace a whole plan of GroenLinks in width. When the cabinet presents its extensive plans, I think it would be wise for you to give me the opportunity to put that side by side in the debate. Then I can also give it an appreciation. Because I've seen some of it, but frankly, nothing more than a few things in the paper. That's up to me; it's kind of crowded when you're just starting out in a job like this. I think your plan is broader than the one I'm going to be Secretary of State about. To start nibbling on someone else's wallet in the first few weeks doesn't strike me as a good idea either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	I believe that a new Secretary of State is offering new opportunities. I share Mr Peters' concerns: an increase of 5% in the number of young people in assistance. I would therefore like to take a moment to consider the numbers. We are talking about 2,000 young people, and that is indeed 2,000 too many. However, I would like to ask this Secretary of State whether he is also looking at the increase in the number of older people, which is 0.4%, but these are 900 elderly people and people with disabilities. If they become unemployed, they will be much harder to get back to work than young people. Does the Secretary of State have that group in mind? Would it be possible, as 50PLUS has already requested, to extend the period of unemployment, especially during the corona crisis in which they find it difficult to get back to work?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	I don't quite understand that last question, honestly, but it's probably just me. As far as the previous points are concerned, I think Mrs Van Brenk has a point to make. We are talking about young people, about which Mr Peters put a question, also because we see a huge increase in numbers there. That does not mean, of course, that we should not pay attention to other groups. I have just mentioned people with disabilities. Mrs. Van Brenk, you're coming with the elderly, and I wouldn't have expected that from your party. We will certainly also pay attention to this in the development of our further plans. That is what we are going to talk about when all this is further developed. But I don't want it to be some kind of competition with groups facing each other. We're trying to help everyone widely, seeing that some people are more likely than others. We have a great deal of interest in those groups which are less likely or have a vulnerable position in the labour market, including the elderly. That is why we have now made major budgets available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	Second question, Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr President, the Secretary of State did not understand the question and I would like to help. The deadline for someone to be in the WW continues, while we know that now in corona time it is really a problem to get back to work. The request is that there should also be some coulance, in order to extend the time limits before people arrive in the assistance or get no benefits at all because the assistance ceases, during the period when the corona crisis is manifest.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	On the subject of the WW, I really must refer you to the Minister, because he deals with that. In any case, I can say that our main objective is to prevent people from getting into that situation as much as possible. That's where we put our energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA, then Mr Kuzu, and then Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis affects the future of many young people in the Netherlands. That's worrying. It is therefore important that, on the one hand, we ensure that as many people as possible remain at work, through a job guarantee, from work to work. It is important for the cabinet to take an active part in this. Secondly, we need to ensure that the people who are now receiving assistance get out of it as soon as possible. We are therefore waiting for the plans of this Secretary of State and the Cabinet to see exactly how they are going to work that out. What matters to me, what matters to the Labour Party, is that young people should also come to the table. We know the Coalition-Y. We know the Youth Platform. We know the youth unions. I would very much like the Secretary of State to give an undertaking that these groups and these young people will come to the table themselves and will be able to make a real contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	There are many conversations from our ministry, but also from a wider perspective, with the clubs mentioned by Mr Gijs van Dijk here. I think there has even been a discussion yesterday, which I myself was not there for a while, but I will try to do so again soon. So yes, we want to hear their voices in this too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	One of the first things I learned here in The Hague is that you should not pay attention to the words of a ruler, but that you should look at the budget. Although this Secretary of State is new, I hear him say in particular that we have accompanying policies to solve problems, that we need to gather ideas and that we need to consult municipalities. I wonder: are we going to make a structural approach to this, after all, because it is about the future of the Netherlands, or are we going to stick to accompanying policies and get good ideas? Is the Secretary of State prepared to make this a priority in the short term that he is Secretary of State, so that after seven or eight months he can say: I have achieved this for the young?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	With all due respect, I think that Mr Kuzu is seriously failing the work done by the cabinet in recent weeks and the amount released for this purpose. Some refer to a batch color. I believe that there have been few VVD Secretary of State for Social Affairs who have allowed the Social Affairs budget to expand as much as we are going to do for the next two years. I am doing so with complete conviction, because it is now necessary. I understand you all want more and more things now. Mr. Kuzu, I'm really going to focus on what's already about structural improvements from my predecessor Van Ark that I can finish, and on making sure we get through this corona crisis as well as possible. There is still a great deal of work to be done. That's really going a little further than collecting ideas. Those are very serious discussions with all parties, because we also attach importance to their involvement, because they are also the ones who will have to do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	It is nice that Mr Gijs van Dijk mentioned the Coalition-Y and the importance of young people and that he encouraged the Secretary of State to talk to them quickly. I would like to draw attention to the people who are not found in a card box. In the context of debt prevention and poverty prevention, I am concerned about the young people and families who are not known to the UVW and the municipality. If you want prevention, you have to be in the capillaries of society. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore whether he wishes to involve civil society organisations and voluntary organisations in the elaboration of his plan, so that we can be visible with prevention in the heart of society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	I am happy to say that because I share Mr Bruins' analysis in its entirety. That is why we are setting up this debt campaign. Be early or avoid people getting into debt, because within a few months you'll go from a small amount to a huge amount. That causes more than just financial misery in many families. One of my first work visits was to the food bank here in The Hague. I also agreed with them: keep in touch and be involved. They are really the ones who see families who do not always report automatically. There's another world to win.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you.
