ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the Spring paper. It shows how the current budget of the Empire is going. I'll tell all the people sitting on the couch with popcorn and Coke. It therefore includes the proposals on any changes needed in the revenue and expenditure of the Empire. As the first speaker on the side of the Chamber, I would like to give the floor to Mr Van Dijck and he is speaking on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Minister. These are historical times. I thought I'd been through a lot. As a Member of Parliament, I experienced the financial crisis at close range in 2008. Banks were nationalized, the housing market collapsed and the economy fell by 5.5%. Then came the euro crisis, when we had to push countries like Greece with 250 billion. But what we are experiencing now is unprecedented and Mr Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank compared it with a meteorite impact, which takes place once every hundred years. Corona wiped out the whole world in a few months. Mr. Chairman. The CPB expects the economy to shrink by 6.4% this year and to recover slightly with a growth of 3.3%. The IMF predicts a slightly larger contraction of 7.7%, but also a slightly faster recovery of 5%. Let's hope for a little less shrinkage and a little faster recovery. But let us especially hope for a vaccine and that there will not be a second wave, because then we will be back to square one. Public finances were also picked up. Government debt has risen by 50 billion in three months and tax revenues have dried up completely. The previously expected surplus has therefore been turned into an astronomical deficit of 68 billion, due to 30 billion in less revenue and 38 billion in more expenditure because of all the corona aid measures. The debt is up by 100 billion this year. Mr. Chairman. With a palette of 91 specific measures of 42 billion, this cabinet is now trying to reduce the damage. It goes from 25 billion in wage subsidies to generous loan guarantees. These actions are understandable. After all, we want to prevent companies going on a massive scale or people losing their jobs massively, as we have seen in America. But the PVV is very concerned about the future, because despite this intervention it does not look good. The Committee of Entrepreneurship announced the day before yesterday a doomsday scenario of large contraction and a wave of bankruptcies. They said, "We bought a delay, but we didn't buy a setback." And they're not the only ones. Many companies have received deferred payments: deferred taxes, 31 billion; deferred banks, 3 billion, and sometimes also rents and other obligations. However, many companies have also entered into an additional bridging loan, and more than 30,000 consumers received a pay-off from their mortgage charges. Of course, that's all very nice to give some air to these people and these companies, but it all has to be paid in the end. It's a delay, not a setback. My main concern is therefore how and when all this will be paid back. What's the exit strategy? Have these agreements been made, I ask the Minister, with the Tax Office, with the banks, with the landlords? When everyone comes to present the deferred accounts at the same time, companies are still falling apart, and that is precisely what we wanted to avoid. The postponement must not be a postponement of execution, because then it has all been for nothing. How's the Minister gonna take care of this? 'Cause the omens are bad. The omens showed the day before yesterday that the NS is removing 2,300 jobs, despite the state aid of 1,5 billion. KLM will also lose jobs, despite State aid of 3.2 billion. One in three SMEs do not expect to survive if the crisis continues for a while. Many entrepreneurs in the hospitality industry, the travel world, the event industry are all over the water. Mr. Chairman. Much of this misery is the result of the loss of consumption and demand. In April, we experienced the biggest shrinkage ever measured. People are scared and uncertain about the future, bringing consumer confidence down to an absolute low of -31. The question is how the Minister is going to boost consumption and thus the economy. What is the recovery plan? I don't see it. The United Kingdom is talking about building, building, building and lending 6 billion to the construction sector. Germany comes with a "Konjunkturpaket" of 130 billion. What's this minister coming up with? Consumption can't be without purchasing power. The CPB simply keeps purchasing power for this year at 2.3%, while the Nibud director, Arjan Vliegenthart, warns of a purchasing power drama. He states that the long-awaited increase in purchasing power that was to come this year is going up in smoke for large groups. Another false promise. Purchasing power has been at zero under Rutte for ten years. People have worked their asses off, but they don't look back. There is even talk of wage sacrifices, the postponement of holiday allowances and less collective bargaining increases. So that doesn't help in purchasing power. Last May, in the press, the Minister made a firm promise to people in this country: the account of the crisis should not be deposited with Jan Modaal this time. Unacceptable, he called it. So, Minister, the question is how are you going to deliver on this promise, especially now that more than 100 municipalities have sounded the alarm clock and are threatening to raise taxes. For example, we see in Germany that they have significantly reduced VAT, from 19% to 16%. In addition, families receive €300 per child and a discount on the electricity bill. All this to drive consumption. In Belgium, too, VAT has been reduced on the entire catering industry. Even Prime Minister Conte of Italy is thinking about a VAT reduction, but he is waiting for the recovery fund to arrive, because then we can pay it. Smart as they are, those Italians. Mr President, unemployment is another matter of concern. Despite all measures to preserve jobs, mass redundancies are expected. Deferral of execution? According to the CPB, unemployment will double in 2021. That means 700,000 people out of work. And all economists predict this. Already you see the first signs. There are now 200,000 people working in the Netherlands less than three months ago. Young people and flex workers were the first to be sent home. To this day, 2 million people are on the government infusion: what if these arrangements stop? How will the Minister prevent mass redundancies? Finally, Mr President, the banks. That too is a matter of concern. I do not know if the Minister has seen it, but it is striking that the corona monitor that the banks present every month shows that there are only very small amounts of corona credits being closed. This isn't going well. The whole BMKB is a fucking mess! Of the 12 billion in emergency loans, only 1.2 billion is provided with a government guarantee, we see. Only 1% of all SMEs received corona credit. Relatively many credit applications are rejected by the banks. That's not the point. 50% of the applications were rejected. Those are small credits for small businesses who, with 95% government guarantee, are asking for a little bit of support to sail through this crisis. Something's really wrong here. The government guarantees billions, but the banks still reject one application after the other. They do not want it: large companies and larger loans are welcome, but small businesses and SMEs are simply abandoned. It can't be that companies are going to fall because they didn't qualify for a bridging loan. I ask the Minister to take more control of bank lending in the context of the corona crisis. If necessary, we will issue loans with 100% state guarantees, as they do in Germany and Switzerland. Or via the Volksbank, the bank that is 100% owned by the government. I also want every rejection to be recorded from now on, because we have no idea how much is being rejected. But if there are a lot of them, I'll give you a note. I also want rejected entrepreneurs to be able to get a second opinion somewhere, because many entrepreneurs are being rejected and are going to close down and slow down. Maybe they can go to a Kifid counter or something like that for a second opinion to see if they can get a small bridge credit. Mr President, that was it for my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u4	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u5	Then we'll wait. After cleaning through the messengers, we will continue with Mrs De Vries, who will speak on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead, Mrs. De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The world looks completely different from the last financial debates. The corona crisis has hit us if no crisis has ever occurred before. It's uncertain times. The economy is expected to shrink more than during the financial crisis and even stronger than during the Great Depression of the 1930s. But with the commitment of everyone, with the resilience and creativity of entrepreneurs and with a strong package of government measures, we are also going to fix this crisis together; I am convinced of that. We've gone through the first phase of the corona crisis, and we've all gone through it. We will now also have to fight together to get through these economically difficult times and get stronger out of this crisis. Mr. Chairman. The crisis is also felt in public finances. The June transfer may show this year a budget deficit of 8.7% and a public debt of 63.1% at the end of the year, while we came from a situation of a budget surplus and debt below 50%. These figures are, of course, surrounded by a lot of uncertainty. We can also see this from the considerable differences in estimates. Can the Minister clarify this a little bit? Within what bandwidth does he expect these figures? Mr. Chairman. The fact that we can or cannot do these necessary support measures is because we, the Netherlands, have previously put financial order on the ground. "In order," despite the many arguments here in the Chamber that the Netherlands was being cut short and despite the arguments that the cabinet ruled the country as an accountant. As a result, we now have the financial space to do all this for the entrepreneur at the corner and for employees at companies that are hard hit. Nevertheless, many people will feel the consequences of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, there will be people who will lose their jobs, for whom the expected increase in wages will not continue or who will have to turn in that salary to keep the company going. On average, people's purchasing power seems reasonable by 2020, but that will certainly not be the case for everyone. The differences will be enormous. In previous years the VVD has just fought for the purchasing power of the middle groups, in the form of relief. The VVD will continue to do so in the near future, because that is now more necessary than ever. How does the Minister view that? Mr. Chairman. The Minister and I have often wrestled about the treatment of the care premium in the budget. Less increase in the care premium than expected leads to a compulsory tax increase. Of course, that cannot be explained now. Does the Minister have any idea of the care premium and what the effects of corona will be on this? Is the Minister prepared, perhaps next year, to suspend the budgetary rule on the care premium if it would lead to an increase in the burden? Mr. Chairman. It may sound crazy from the mouth of a VVD, but we do not think there should be any cuts next year. Extraordinary times require extraordinary measures, or extraordinary times require extraordinary measures. This crisis is not an ordinary crisis and we must not treat it in the usual way. Can the Minister in the Chamber confirm once again that he too thinks it is unwise to cut back next year? Mr. Chairman. The VVD believes that we should also invest to get out of this crisis. We will have to continue to work on the growth potential of the Dutch economy, the Dutch entrepreneurs and the Dutch workers. But that also means restraint in ourselves. If we want to invest, we need to focus on the right investments. Under the guise of "never waste a good crisis," it will be attractive for some people to put a "corona" sticker on the old wish lists and Kees is ready. But I don't think that's wise. Not every expenditure is an investment and there is a thin line between ourselves from the crisis and investing ourselves towards a second Greece. We will have to deal with this crisis in a different way, but in a Dutch way, in a sensible way. Mr. Chairman. Entrepreneurs suck at all the rules, and I understand that very well. Fortunately, there will be more space, and we see tremendous resilience, flexibility and creativity in companies to find a solution. But it's not business as usual yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u7	Are you done with this piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u8	No, but I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u9	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u10	Mr Nijboer is eager to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u11	I will give him the opportunity to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mrs De Vries' first sentences sounded like music to me: we must not cut back now and investment must be made. Mrs De Vries then said: but the record of the parties should not be turned off again with old investment wishes. So I invite Mrs De Vries to look at the question: what do I find different after this corona crisis? Is it reasonable, for example, to reward people who work in health care, who do that hard work, more structurally? Is that something the VVD says: we were against in the past; now the corona crisis has opened our eyes and are we in favour of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u13	I'm always in favour of rewarding people; I'd like to do that across the board. You know our plea for relief. That is something that ends up in the care of people again, and I think we should look very closely at what that division has been like. But you also know that collective agreements are made by employers and employees in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u14	The latter is undoubtedly true, but it must be done on the basis of the budgets that hospitals, care institutions and home care have. It's the government's decision, of course. So if we think that people in health care, especially the nurses, the people in home care and the people who have worked so hard on the ic's, should be better rewarded and the PvdA believes that; you know that too, then we should also make money available for that. We're all paying for the care out of public funds. Is Mrs De Vries prepared to do so on a structural basis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u15	I do see the solution of the PvdA, which the PvdA always chooses, and that is a pity in itself. I think we should also look very closely at what, for example, has brought about digital care. What else can we do in health care? We've had whole discussions about sensible care. It is indicated that 15% of the care is not proven effective. I think that we can also find room for a number of measures that you may want to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u16	Investing in the Dutch way was also seen after the banking crisis. At that time, the Netherlands turned out to be one of the few countries in Europe without an investment bank. So we could not invest ourselves out of the crisis. Invest-NL then arrived, but ten years too late: it was not established until 2019. Does Mrs De Vries agree with me that it should not take so long and that this national investment bank, or national investment fund, whatever it is called, which we are waiting for, should get there quickly and that we do not have to wait another ten years, but not two years? Does she agree with me that it really needs to be set up with speed, so that we can invest to get out of this corona crisis socially?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u17	I think we should first look at what investments we can make in the short term. This can also be done, for example, by bringing forward a number of planned investments, because I believe that a number of projects may take years before they are really put on the road and prepared. I agree with the SP that we need to invest, but we need to do so wisely. Of course, plans have been made for an investment fund, and that is fine as far as we are concerned, but we do want to look at it: what are you going to spend it on? Because we want it to really help to increase economic growth in the Netherlands, and not for all kinds of other expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u18	That's good. Then today we can ask the cabinet to at least make haste with that, but also to do sensible things. I don't think anyone's against sensible things. But does Mrs De Vries agree with us that the structural improvement of society in the Netherlands can also be achieved by investing in healthcare? Does she also think that this is not just about photonics and artificial intelligence and so on, but that we can also invest Dutch society in a social way by making structural money available for care in this crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u19	I think we're breaking up a little bit when it comes to the investment fund. I don't think we should spend that kind of money from an investment fund. I believe that this cabinet has shown that investing in the public sector is certainly an important task. We want to do that wisely. Then it's about education, about care and about a number of other things. But we also need to look at, for example, when we are talking about care, at what you can do to find solutions, such as in the regulations at the municipality, where it is now pinching. It's not just a matter of a bag of money. I think, for example, that a lot of staff in the care sector run into the feeling that they do not have enough space, that they cannot take on their own responsibility and that kind of thing. I think we should take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mrs De Vries has already mentioned the adjustment of the budgetary rules in relation to the care premium. GroenLinks has already put forward proposals for this. But there is another crazy thing in the budgetary system, namely the salaries for the care staff. That system is as follows. It seems that there is a real prospect of a lower wage increase in the market sector. If wages in the market sector are left behind, the pay area for the care staff is also disappointing. This brings a windfall to the VWS budget. Surely it would be unacceptable if we were to cut wages in the healthcare sector now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u21	As I have just said, employers and workers are ultimately deciding on a collective agreement. I understand that the underlying question is that there must be money to achieve such a collective agreement. However, I have made it quite clear that I think we should look at what we can do with digital care, with that sensible concern. If there are concerns that are not proven to be effective, I hope that I will find Mr Snels by my side and that he will show his willingness to take a critical look at them as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u22	But in this case, it is really about the salaries of the care staff. If we follow the system, that means that in the autumn we will have less room for salaries for care staff. Shouldn't that be unacceptable, including for the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u23	There's a bit of a contradiction being created, and I don't quite understand that. I think you should see where you can find space within the budgets. I do not see the contradiction that Mr Snels calls for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u24	Finally, briefly, Mr. Quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finally, very briefly. Does the VVD think that if salaries in the market sector are disappointing, that the care staff may earn a little more than the staff in the market sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u26	I have just indicated that I think that is really a matter for employers and employees. And I also think that if care is not sensible, we should have the willingness to look at it. But my question about that apparently refuses to answer GroenLinks. We need to find space there, too, within the overall package that stands for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u27	The VVD used to be an entrepreneurial party. I suppose the VVD gets an e-mail from an entrepreneur, who then complains because he doesn't get credit or because the sales are disappointing, despite the lighting of the lockdown that is taking place now. I speak to people from companies, and they all say: I expected it to be busy again, but it is not. A lot of companies still have a lot of problems with that. What's the plan now, what's the VVD's idea to boost that consumption again?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u28	Well, I think I just made a plea saying I want to go for relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes, load relief: that's very broad. In Belgium, for example, they said: you know what, until the end of this year, the catering industry will pay much less VAT. On the drink there is no more 21% VAT, but substantially less. Germany is doing the same thing. You want me to think about something like that? Can we temporarily boost the economy so we can kick-start it? Or is the burden relief of the VVD more in the long term, as we heard from the VVD ten years ago? And in the end, nothing came of that relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u30	My preference is always for structural relief, not temporary relief. Because in case of temporary relief, it always has to go up at some point. And I am not very enthusiastic about the measures taken abroad regarding a temporary reduction in VAT. I think such a measure in an open country like the Netherlands is also less effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u31	Finally, briefly, Mr Van Dijck
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u32	Finally. We saw it in the previous crisis, and I don't know if Mrs De Vries was there at the time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u33	Well, at least I was born.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u34	I mean, of course, I don't know if Mrs De Vries was in the Chamber at the time. During the previous crisis, the cabinet decided on a temporary VAT reduction for construction, i.e. a temporary relief. That worked very well then, because it brought out a lot of construction activities under the motto "now I only pay 6% for my construction activities instead of 21%'. Until today, that still works for painters. In other words, do not reject such a temporary reduction of charges as firmly as possible. It'll give the economy a kick-start. And I don't hear any other plans from you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u35	I don't think you can compare every crisis with each other. I think the corona crisis is a different one than the financial crisis and then an ordinary crisis. I think you need to look very carefully at the measures that fit in with that now. I have said that we are always prepared to look at sensible measures. So, yes, let's see what sensible measures are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u36	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u37	I don't think so yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u38	I'm sorry. I didn't see you getting up. Go ahead, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u39	I got up late too, Mr. Chairman. In her speech, Mrs De Vries spoke of the difference between investment and consumption, as part of public expenditure. We had a debate on this Monday evening in which Mr Slootweg made the same distinction. Mrs De Vries was the chairman then, so she could not respond. But we were looking for a way to make that distinction really clear. Perhaps Mrs De Vries also has suggestions for this, so that we can actually introduce them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u40	I'd really like to, let me just say that. I think it was the Minister's answer, if I have listened carefully, that it is very difficult to cut with scissors some consumer spending and some investment expenditure. I think it is important for us to look at how we can get economic growth going in a structural way and then increase it further, and what helps it. I'd love it if we could do it, but I don't have one-two-three ready-to-use solution for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u41	Unfortunately, because we share that goal. I therefore propose that we continue this search together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u42	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u43	And then you can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u44	I need to see where I was. I told you it wasn't business as usual yet. There are still entrepreneurs in sectors that can't and can't do anything. There are entrepreneurs who have to deal with severe constraints and are therefore not able to work in a cost-effective way. There are entrepreneurs who in recent months should have built up a buffer for the coming winter and are therefore threatening to fall in January/February, as in the tourist-recreational sector. And there are entrepreneurs in the manufacturing industry who are not yet able to produce at full power by failing supply lines. As an exporting country, we also depend on how things go economically in the rest of the world. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet helps entrepreneurs with strong packages where possible. But we must also be realistic: not all companies will be able to survive. And after the second emergency package, not all the problems have been solved. The VVD wants to know how the cabinet handles this. The VVD believes that we need to look quickly at what needs to be done now and what needs to be done after the emergency package 2.0. The cabinet states that aid measures should continue to focus on economic adjustment. What exactly does that mean? How would a little brown bar adapt? How should major music events be adapted within themselves? How will tourist-recreational companies and the travel industry get through the coming winter period? Bringing forward sensible investment is important. What does the Cabinet do at that point? The VVD also wants a generous refund scheme for deferred taxes. As far as we are concerned, this can also be done on a sector-specific basis. When can the cabinet clarify this? Because uncertainty is never good for entrepreneurs. Banks also want to know what is going to happen in this area when they finance entrepreneurs. That's why the VVD wants to clarify quickly. Can the Minister do that? When will there also be more clarity towards the municipalities? A number of letters have been sent recently which state that a real solution is being looked at. But the need for the municipalities is high. It is important, however, to clarify this. The VVD has previously indicated that it wants to be able to follow the corona expenses well in order to carry out our controlling task. However, in the factual questions, the Minister points out that for expenditure measures it is currently not possible to indicate which part of the estimated amounts have actually been spent. How can that and why can't that insight be given? 'Cause I think that's hard to explain. What's the Minister gonna do to make that happen? Mr. Chairman. The Minister gave an overview of the corona measures in the update of public finances, but the VVD wonders whether the expenditure at the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport is complete. For although there is an overview of the specific corona measures, are there no more indirect costs in the care, such as catching up on delayed care? But also the health bonus doesn't seem to be incorporated into it. Mr. Chairman. In this context, the VVD also wonders how realistic the reduction of over EUR 1 billion in healthcare expenditure included in the Spring Note is. This seems kind of surreal at this time. So how realistic is this, according to the Minister? It is used elsewhere to cover other expenditure. Mr. Chairman. The amount of guarantee obligations is very high in this crisis. That is, of course, necessary, but guarantees are not without risks. What is the Minister doing to mitigate the risks and how does he keep his finger on the wrist with all these guarantees? Mr. Chairman. Besides corona, of course, other matters remain important. It is a good thing that in this Spring note additional money will be made available to deal with undermining and the justice chain. That's gonna take a lot of shit. It remains necessary in the future. The same applies to us as far as the defence sector is concerned. Finally, Mr President. We're in the middle of dealing with this crisis. We are also looking at investing in the future, in our economic growth. Like the lockdown, we all have to do that intelligently and wisely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u45	Thank you. I will give the messengers the opportunity to clean the chair and then I will give the floor to Mr Snels. He will speak on behalf of GroenLinks. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. This year's debate is completely different than usual. The budget has already been adjusted for many billions and many debates have already taken place on the incidental supplementary budgets. I will therefore use this debate mainly to look back a little on the past few months and to look forward to the autumn. Mr. Chairman. The last few months have been exceptional. The cabinet has spent almost 40 billion more than was foreseen and 30 billion less in taxes. We finish these days in billions. The Minister expects a budget deficit of almost 9% and the government debt will rise to well over 60%. The cabinet had no choice but to take swift and decisive action. As far as I am concerned, there are two important questions. The first is: have these billions been spent efficiently and effectively? The second is: what priorities did the cabinet actually have if you look back on all those billions? On the first question, the Court of Auditors will also look carefully. The Court has now launched a monitor to monitor expenditure on the corona crisis. Also the monitor of the Ministry itself is a nice initiative. The Court's first notable graph shows that 0.6 billion went to fellow governments and 35 billion to companies. Of course, we were concerned with maintaining businesses and jobs, but the difference is considerable. Why do local authorities get 50 times less than companies? And so there are more questions to ask when you start comparing the numbers. The cabinet pays 1 billion for directors-major shareholders to lower their usual wages, while the tax building blocks show that this box 2 entrepreneurs have twice as much power as we previously thought. A total of 377 million will be allocated to one shipbuilder, while the entire culture sector will have to do it at around 300 million. 650 million will be allocated to ornamental farming and the potato sector, which now shows that only about half is needed. With all these examples, the wallet was quickly drawn, but was it really necessary and was it effective? Mr. Chairman. The second question concerns relations. It's a little cruivefian: you can't see it until you see it. Each one may have something to say for a lot of measures, but afterwards you can see that the proportions are distorted and that the contrast can be really great. When it comes to culture or local authorities, the cabinet says that money is no longer available, no matter how big the problems are. As a result of the corona crisis, municipalities have experienced a financial crisis and are in danger of having to lay the bill down or cut the public's service through higher charges. That can't be the intention. What is the government's commitment here? When it comes to flex workers at risk of falling between shore and ship, the cabinet says it wants to help this group, but there is only an amount available for the first three months. While this cabinet gives more than €6,000 per person to wealthy large shareholders, €600 is enough for flex workers. Why? When it comes to the most vulnerable people around the world, the cabinet certainly does not give at home. The advice of the AIV was crystal clear. The Netherlands must immediately assist with 1 billion in meeting acute needs as a result of the pandemic worldwide and the government must not lower the OS budget. But the cabinet is arguing. That can't be true, I'm asking the Minister. We sign the SP amendment with complete conviction. What is the Minister's view of these relations in this first rough look back? I want to look forward to Prince's Day and fall. There will be a very difficult period in which unemployment will rise rapidly to 7% in 2021. How will the cabinet ensure that the account of this crisis does not reach the most vulnerable people? How is the cabinet going to ensure that we invest ourselves sustainably out of the crisis? How much space is the investment fund going to get at Princess Day? Does the Minister agree that the debt could therefore be further increased in the short term? What will the cabinet do for anyone who falls into a hole after the second package of aid? Does the Minister agree that in the first period the emphasis was on saving businesses, but that now the emphasis should be on 1. strengthening the safety net and the income position of people and 2. re-training people to new work? What is the government going to do to counter the threat of youth unemployment? What perspective will the cabinet have for the current generation of school leavers? On this point, my group has tabled an amendment on the retention and creation of additional traineeships and apprenticeships for the MBO. Of all the tens of billions that are now being spent, we are spending 50 million on education. That's a dime. What will be the government's strategy here in the autumn? How's the cabinet gonna solve the problems in health care? Is the cabinet going to make the care premiums for ordinary households rise? Mrs De Vries also asked about it. Do the people in the care sector also receive more appreciation in structural terms? I have already referred to the budgetary system. Why is the government cutting down on community care for 341 million in this Spring note? On this point, too, my group has tabled an amendment, because something is going wrong here. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is going into an important summer. The next phase of the crisis calls for a new strategy: more thoughtful, more focused on protecting the income of vulnerable people, more focused on training and new employment and also more focused on a transition to a sustainable economy. Not back to the old, but to a new and fair economy for everyone. What guidelines does the Minister see for the autumn? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u47	Thank you. I now give the floor to the speaker from the CDA, Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This spring note actually reflects the first step in combating the corona pandemic. In that first step, every effort is made to minimise the economic impact. But this first step will have to be followed by a second and a third step. The second step should be to restore the economy as soon as possible. The third step will have to focus on the state of public finances and what needs to be done to get them up to level so that they can cope with a further economic shock. Mr. Chairman. The shock caused by corona also shows that there are vulnerabilities in an economy. For me, these are also the limited buffers we found in households and companies. Now these buffers need some nuance, because a large part of the buffers of the people are in their pensions, but a buffer of €3,000 for an average Dutchman is small. I see very clearly that for someone with a modal income in this world, saving with negative interest rates and creating a buffer is of little use. That's what I hear from young people. They are increasingly in debt. "Youth too rich with money" headlined a newspaper this weekend. The ECB's interventions therefore ensure that I am afraid that interest rates will not increase in the coming years. But this undermines an economic value, an institution, namely the usefulness of saving. I would therefore like to see the Minister and banks together think about how savings can be useful again. Is the Minister prepared to consider how young people, households and businesses can be encouraged to create a buffer? Does he also want to see if there is legislation that prevents people from creating a buffer? Mr. Chairman. This spring note gives a clear overview of how the cabinet has wanted to cope with this economic shock. It is the impact of a programme with which the economy is stunned. The point of contact is to keep employees employed as much as possible and to prevent bankruptcies. The question is whether the prevention of job losses should be the starting point for the follow-up step. The CPB figures indicate that due to the tax relief measures of the Cabinet there are people who have and keep a job during this period and who are improving 2.3%. That's the biggest plus during this cabinet period. But that is in stark contrast to what reality is for many flex workers. Or think of the message that families are increasingly asking for help. For example, the Stichting Jarige Job, the National Children's Aid Fund and the Leergeld Foundation have joined forces to help families through this crisis with financial problems caused by the corona crisis. Are the automatic stabilisers sufficient or is the cabinet also looking at the impact of corona on family spending? Mr. Chairman. An important part of the emergency package is the possibility of postponing payment of tax. In our conversations with entrepreneurs we often hear about fear of using it. People are afraid of making mistakes and they find it complicated. They're up against the after-charges. We are pleased that the Spring Paper has given extra impetus to the supplementing affair. It is now quite clear to us that the cabinet wants to bring this long-standing issue to a successful conclusion. But the complexity of tax rules and sometimes the sincere fear of people for the government make the CDA think we need someone from outside the government. In the United States they have a national tax payer lawyer. That actually inspired us to see how this could be done in the Netherlands: a face to help people when they get into trouble or to prevent it. I recently saw the Children's Ombudsman's report with all kinds of recommendations to make children's policies more effective. Has not the time really come to arrive at a separate tax ombudsman, an ombudsman for tax matters, just as we have a Children's Ombudsman and a Veteran Ombudsman? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Some of the problems caused by the corona crisis are met by municipalities. The Empire has recently compensated the municipalities for the loss of parking and tourist tax, but De Telegraaf announced yesterday that there is nevertheless a lot of unrest among municipalities. In addition to the direct consequences of the corona measures, this is due to deficits that exist in the past, but also to concerns about the costs of catching up care in the near future. And then there is the re-evaluation of the Municipal Fund. Last year, the cabinet reported that there was an expert group that supported municipalities that saw their costs explode in the Wmo and youth care. What about the results of this expert group? Do the municipalities know how to find their way and do the municipalities that have been helped manage better? I would like to see a joint effort, because for many citizens, the Empire, municipalities and provinces there is actually one government. I would like to see a joint effort to deal with this corona crisis. Mr. Chairman. The VWS budget, which Mrs De Vries and Mr Snels have already referred to, is really very interesting when we look at it on the basis of the Spring paper. Once again, deficits in long-term care are offset by surpluses in the cure. In people's wallets, that doesn't matter, but our question is how sustainable this is in the long term. How useful is it to fix the premium for the Wlz and to supplement it with tax resources each time? A lower premium for the Health Insurance Act, which is then compensated by higher tax rates? We asked for a WRR report at the beginning of this period. And we have also asked the Study Group on Budgets: how to look at these mechanisms, how to look at them? Mr. Chairman. It is also a curious crisis. In addition to the families that are getting in trouble because they work in sectors where the impact of the one and a half-metre society is high, there are companies that, so to speak, do not get dragged into it. And looking at the medium term, it's obvious that we're looking at how we can stimulate the economy. But then there's got to be a vaccine. And as long as that vaccine isn't there, we all have a lot of questions about this. Does the government intend to come up with a package of incentives and transformations, in which we are actually looking more closely at which sectors of the economy are prospering and with which sectors of the economy it is likely to be very difficult in the future? And can an image already be sketched if there is such an incentive and transformation package, or if it could be given a place in the August decision-making process? Finally, Mr President. I began by saying that I believe there are three stages to this crisis. The first phase of emergency packages, which means that as few people as possible lose their jobs. A second phase of investment, where I think we should move investments that are already planned forward, but also to the national investment fund. And then there may be other measures. I believe that is what Mr Van Dijk calls the kickstarts. I have also asked questions about VAT before. They can also stimulate, and perhaps stimulate, targeted. Finally, however, there will be a third phase of sensible reforms. I am also thinking of the labour market and the proposals made by Borstlap, which should also bring public finances back into the fold. In this context, I would also like to know the Minister's opinion on the statements made by Klaas Knot and Pieter Hasekamp, who believe that the consequences of this crisis should be spread over some 50 years. How does the Minister see this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u49	Thank you. There is an interruption for you from Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u50	It is striking, and it is a pity, that the CDA does not address international solidarity and its importance at the moment. Because of course no country is completely safe from corona until all countries are, if we want to go back to the situation where borders can be opened. The CDA Group has rightly requested an opinion on this. And CDA-prominent and former party leader Professor De Hoop Scheffer has written a crystal clear opinion on this. While the cabinet is arguing so much, the left-wing parties, the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party, have now tabled an amendment to comply with that request and to release additional money for the international fight against the coronavirus. How does the CDA view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u51	First of all, I am very grateful for Mr Alkaya's compliments in his analysis. Yes, we do have an eye for this. I also think that this is actually the case in the entire cabinet; I also refer to the letter received by the Prime Minister in the Financial Times and to which he refers. You call it "fight." I feel like a chicken is breeding hugely here, and I wouldn't want to disturb it. And if you have missed it, I think I have given my view in other places too. For example, we recently had a story about the Special Drawing Rights at the IMF, and I gave my view on that: that there is such an international connection, that we think it is important that the Netherlands contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u52	But it takes that chicken a long time. The opinion was requested by the CDA in April and came as a matter of urgency in May. A few weeks later, the International Affairs Advisory Council delivered a good, crystal clear opinion. Meanwhile we are almost two months further and the coronavirus of course doesn't stop either. Since then, tens of thousands have died. The Netherlands has the opportunity to do something about it. Fortunately, we have the opportunity to make extra money available for it, but in many other countries they do not have that option. There is no ventilator, there is no protective equipment at all and there is not even running water or soap. So they cannot take such measures. If we have the opportunity, does the CDA agree with me that it is taking too long and that we really have a great opportunity to do something about it in the Spring Paper? 'Cause after this, we're gonna have to wait till Prince's Day or until...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u53	First of all, I object to the fact that because this cabinet would be studying on this for a long time, that is to say, your words will be killed everywhere. I think that's a little too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u54	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u55	Well, you actually implied that. At least that is how I take it, namely in the sense of: it takes so long and in the meantime tens of thousands of people die. In doing so, you set out a relationship that I wish to throw far from me. I think it is very important for the cabinet to look closely at how it can come to a solution because there are just a few things going on. We have an agreement on how development money went. When things got better in the last period, it also went up more. So I want a balanced opinion to be drawn up together with the AIV opinion. Nor do I believe that at the moment the liquidity problems are really the problem in support. The problems that exist, including with the countries of Africa, and the problems caused by corona will not be solved immediately this month, even if an agreement is reached. So I wait with interest and confidence what the cabinet comes up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u56	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u57	Finally, Mr President. The victims of the virus are not the victims of this cabinet, but the cabinet can help by responding adequately to those countries that do not have the means, and at least to alleviate the highest needs there. That's what the advisory board says. If the CDA itself has asked for that advice and that advice is now crystal clear, how much longer can it take? That advice was there in a couple of weeks. How long can the response take to an opinion that the CDA urgently asked for and that there was within a few weeks? Then there's got to be something in a couple of weeks, right? Otherwise, as a Chamber, we must take responsibility ourselves and make money for it ourselves. Otherwise, such a request for advice from the CDA would be worth rather little, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Alkaya is doing it again. He's making a connection again. There is already a great deal of support being given at the moment. Mrs Kaag has already been given extra money to help. And to say right away that there are deaths, I find it really reprehensible. I really have a problem with that. I am pleased that we have urgently requested an opinion and I am glad that this will also give us time to come up with a good decision in a moment. I have every confidence in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u59	On this point, I very much agree with Mr Alkaya. You can't say: there is a crisis and the VVD comes up with it to put the knife in OS? I'd say laugh at it, because they've gone completely crazy! But I actually want to ask a question about the other side. Municipalities always get more budget when the Empire spends more. The cabinet has also said: we are not going to do that now. You can come up with arguments for that, but the municipalities are all on the ropes now. Does Mr Slootweg not agree that the CDA aldermen or any other party should also be given the opportunity to keep their pools and libraries open and not raise taxes significantly? Because that is what is happening throughout the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u60	This is why I asked that question. I believe that the Empire, provinces and municipalities should work together to resolve this crisis. There is therefore also a financial problem. That's not the first time, by the way. I do think that Mr Nijboer is doing something wrong, looking at the Spring note and what has gone to municipalities. If we had looked at that step-on-step approach in the past, I think that because of last year's failures, less would have gone to the municipalities. So I think there is a part of it, but I hear these sounds as well. I also really think that we should look together at how we can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u61	This cabinet actually says it's a crisis, so we're not going to cut back, but we're going to pull our country through the crisis. At the same time, it forces municipalities to submit a balanced budget. This means that they have to make substantial cuts, because municipalities also have much more spending. Think about the care, but the social problems are also increasing. Whatever party they're from, from a local party, from the VVD or whatever it is, it doesn't matter. They're all in the middle of austerity packages right now. I do not feel sorry for the municipalities, but I do feel sorry for the inhabitants. I think we as the Empire should have much more regard for that. Mr Slootweg gave some openings for that, but there must also be money. When's that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u62	I think we just have a system for that. Mr Nijboer also knows that the municipalities have received compensation for the tourist tax and parking revenues. So it is really not the case that one is orphaned. But Mr Nijboer says that more is needed in his view. I can see that, too. But I see that on another point too. I can see that coming into control. That's what I mentioned. I really think that's very important. How can municipalities become more in control when it comes to their spending? During my tour and my work visits I also encounter municipalities in which youth care explodes so much, that I think: this takes more than just more money. So I'd like to look for that search.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u63	Finally, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u64	Finally, Mr President, and briefly. Municipalities are all hanging on the ropes. And of course one does better than the other and something has to be done. But with only compensation for some parking taxes and the implementation of some social regulations, they are not going to get there. Then there will be substantial cuts. I therefore hope that agreement can be reached with the CDA in order to give them more opportunities so that they do not have to cut back in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u65	I see in that an appeal which I believe I myself made to the cabinet in asking form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mr Slootweg is a little under attack. I understand that it's complicated, but in my first term, I also described the contradiction that exists. On the one hand, billions are being sprinkled for companies. One shipbuilder gets nearly 400 million. All the municipalities in the Netherlands would be happy to get that first step. Tonight we're talking about KLM. And Mr Slootweg is only talking about difficult decisions and discussions, whether it is about OS or about municipalities or about vulnerable people. There's such a big difference in the balance. On the one hand, the water tap, the money tap, is open to the big companies. On the other hand, the crane for the vulnerable, for the people in poor countries, for the municipalities that need to cut costs, for services that are important, such as libraries, has been turned a bit off. Budgetary mechanisms play a more important role in this. What does Mr Slootweg think of this contradiction, simply from his political point of view?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u67	I just really don't agree with that image. I think there is really a big difference between how a company depends on market demand and how the financing of municipalities has gone. Then I think it is also, precisely because this funding is continuing, very sensible to see where the pain points are. I think it is very sensible that the cabinet should examine this with the municipalities. That's one. As far as OS is concerned, I really don't agree with your image. This cabinet spends extra money around corona and to find a solution. Mrs Kaag had 100 million for that. So I think that image is really wrong. Of course I would also like to see all the solutions and puzzles. But sometimes the urgency of a company is very direct, and sometimes parties like municipalities also need a little more time. This also applies to the issues, for example in Africa and the approach to corona. In my view, Mr Snels made the point that money should be used efficiently and efficiently. I support him in that, too. In my very first contribution, I have also said that I understand that things will undoubtedly go wrong in saving a lot of jobs for families. But I do think that sometimes the urgency is a different one. Then I do not find it very fair when such a comparison is made in the vein of: "You are stalling a little when it comes to vulnerable people. They can't get anything. But when there's a multinational somewhere, Slootweg doesn't know how quickly he's gonna cheer that the cabinet's gonna settle." I think that's a really unfair performance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u68	Shortly, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u69	Support for companies is about efficiency. Take, for example, the shipbuilding industry and the 600 million made available for ornamental and potato cultivation. Without blinking the eyes, hundreds of millions will be released for this and later it may prove that less was needed. What is the difference between a shipbuilder or a farm with potatoes or flowers, and an organisation that needs to have the budget in order when running a library, sports association or cultural institution in a municipality? That's exactly the same thing, isn't it? There the urgency is just as great; they too want to keep their heads above water. But then there is a big difference: for one the crane is turned open and for the other the hand is held to the crane.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u70	I really don't share this image. In the case of the companies mentioned by Mr Snels, it was often simply a matter of immediately closing the doors, while the flow of funding to municipalities continues. So I really don't share that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u71	I have not heard from Mr Slootweg about the banks and the corona credits. Does he think that the state guarantees, the credit, the possibility of bridging loans to companies are going well? 'Cause when I read that monitor, you scared the shit out of me. I'm thinking, "That's gonna go to hell." Small and medium-sized enterprises are facilitated, but they are not given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u72	I thought you were asking very clear and sharp questions, and I had to make a few choices in my text. I would like to mention one more point. I think it is important that the image is not created that "what shall I say?" We are pushing banks to help non-viable companies. I did not hear Mr Van Dijck say that. I liked the questions asked by Mr Van Dijck. What exactly is that about? 'Cause I'm getting those signals, too. But I'm also very worried. We should not put banks in the position of giving credit at some point that does not matter. I'd like to see that nuance and give it a place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u73	Do you therefore agree with me that we should register it if a credit is rejected, so that an entrepreneur can go somewhere for a second opinion? Because now it's true that a lot of small companies are probably going to get those e-mails too: listen, I asked for $10,000, but that's rejected because I only exist for a month; I need to be able to show you last year's profits and I can't, because I only exist for a month. We need to get rid of all that red tape, that bureaucracy that's rigging banks to say no. If necessary, we should open a window for a second opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u74	At first I tried to listen carefully to what Mr Van Dijck said about that red tape. Shouldn't the banks register it? I think you should be able to make a proper analysis of what's needed for that without red tape, or as much as possible without red tape. In fact, I agree with Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u75	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Alkaya, after our messengers have done the cleaning. I call Mr Alkaya of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The corona virus is causing a major economic crisis. Let me say first of all that the cabinet initially reacted surprisingly well; surprisingly well. The first crisis measures have shown to the whole of the Netherlands how the government can also be a friend of people and help them in difficulties. The government behaved early in the corona crisis again for a while as the government of a welfare state. A welfare state that tries to help entrepreneurs through a difficult time, even though many entrepreneurs were forgotten. A welfare state that took responsibility for public health rather than blindly believing in commercial parties, even though many healthcare providers had to do their job without adequate means of protection. A welfare state that tried to maintain the income of people, even though many people, such as temporary workers, were skipped. Mr. Chairman. What I'm saying is that despite the mistakes that have been made, people saw for a while a government that was trying to improve their lives instead of acidifying. We had missed that welfare state in recent neoliberal years. The cabinet was therefore initially able to count on great support in this Chamber and also in society. But in the meantime, we're in a different phase. The acute health crisis seems to be over, but the great economic shock is yet to come. And a 6.4% contraction is taken into account. That's twice the shrinkage from the banking crises. It could get a lot worse if there's a second wave. Let's hope it doesn't come to that. But as the corona crisis continues, unfortunately, the cabinet returns to the old normal, away from that welfare state that we saw for a moment and back to the great friend of multinationals and employers. Several large companies are now receiving, in addition to income support for their employees and in addition to the compensation for their fixed costs, additional taxpayers' money. Direct support, therefore, without society getting anything in return and without any redundancies being avoided. If this continues, unemployment in the Netherlands will more than double according to the Central Planning Bureau. While the government is transferring money to credit insurers, to shipyards and later to aviation, no money is being released to give caregivers a higher salary. Let me be crystal clear. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, these are the wrong political choices of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u77	Of course, you can all make your political choices and they can differ. Mr Alkaya's and mine are different, but I find it a little easy to put down the discrepancy that there is no money for care, and look what is happening for aviation. I assume that Mr Alkaya will not propose that we do this in a loan structure for care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u78	No, I'm not suggesting that. I am concerned about the difference in the attitude of the cabinet. Take, for example, how quickly the money was released to the credit insurers. That was almost a hammer piece. We had to "deham" it to discuss 1.2 billion in taxpayers' losses in the Cabinet at all. That was chased through within a week. When we talk specifically about KLM, yes, those are loans. But when it comes to working conditions, for example, we have had a huge debate here between the group chairmen. When you talk about care, you can't enter into industrial relations, that's between employers and employees. That's exactly what the Minister does at KLM. Exactly that, about working conditions, which should be something between employers and employees, happens at KLM. This has to do with the attitude of the cabinet, which is different when it comes to employers and multinationals than when it comes to the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u79	Now my nugget breaks. I believe that the SP specifically said that high salaries should be tackled at KLM and that the strongest should bear the heavy burden. Now I really don't understand it anymore. So when it comes to care, you actually say, "Give me some kind of loan." And when it comes to the strongest shoulders and the heaviest burdens, for which you will submit by way of bonuses and dividends motions, you now suddenly make that comparison with the care. I really don't understand this anymore. I've lost you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u80	The CDA is selectively outraged here. Because if you say that you can enter into the terms of employment, I say that you can do so under conditions, then you should also be able to do so with the care. Let me ask that question the other way around. Why KLM and not care? Does the CDA have an explanation for that? That's exactly the same difference the CDA accuses me of, isn't it? That's what the cabinet's doing the other way. We're clear. We say: you have to make clear choices, and if it matters, then you must also be able to take responsibility as a government, in the economy and in those relationships. But the CDA is selective in that and the Cabinet is selective in that, and is also selectively outraged. That was only played to make a political point. Mr. Chairman. Now that there is a major economic crisis, a welfare state is urgently needed. The cabinet should invest and save as many jobs as possible. People should not end up on the streets before they can be retrained. The government must continue to take responsibility for the economy and share the burden fairly. Instead, the cabinet wants to further reduce the tax on profits for large companies, which reduces the room to invest. Even the European Commission recommends pursuing policies that increase investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u81	A fine plea to keep as many jobs as possible. I think that's what we all want. Mr Alkaya spoke just now about selectivity, but I also sense selectivity in the SP, because when it comes to air transport jobs and KLM, that does not seem to count, because that is nonsense to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u82	No, I don't think so. That's perfectly clear. We're gonna talk about aviation tonight. Then I will also say that forced redundancies are against the spirit in which we have talked about KLM so far. When it came to the purchase of shares in 2019, there was broad support for this. Only the Party for Animals was against it. When we had a debate on the intention to support KLM, we had a discussion on how that could be done, but no one, almost no one, was fundamentally against supporting KLM. But the cabinet has now chosen a way that tax money goes in the form of loans and guarantees and so on, but that forced redundancies are still on the table, whereas France cannot. So that's what we're gonna talk about tonight, but my commitment will be right to get those forced dismissals off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u83	But they'll have to repay those loans. They're needed to get the company up and running. And I think there should indeed be a reduction in costs. With what you're saying, that you want to avoid all redundancies, you're basically gonna make sure that the company isn't viable anymore. I never understand the SP thinking that that is the line, because it is about maintaining as many jobs as possible, and then you are going to give direction to that support to KLM in this way. I just don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u84	Finally, in response to this. The Netherlands is often crazy stallion in this. In France, for example, they think very differently. That is what we are going to talk about with the Minister, but I think it is perfectly legitimate to ask for the prevention of redundancies when state aid goes there. For example, you could cut more at the top and ask for more from the pilots, who earn 2.5 tons a year, or ask for more from management, in order to avoid forced redundancies on the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u85	You will continue your speech. Oh, no, you're not. First of all, a question from Mr Sneller of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u86	I'm going to go back to the argument. In my opinion, the SP was the only one voting against the proposal to save those supplier credits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u87	Not the only one, but we voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u88	As the only one opposed in the debate, I would like it to be corrected and at least voted against. How many jobs would have been lost in SMEs if the SP had been able to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u89	We wouldn't have gotten our way if it had been wiped off the table. We would have had our way if it had been promised at that time that the bill would also be distributed fairly. At that time, in terms of efficiency and legality, which Mr Sneller and Mr Snels often talk about, it was not clear that this measure was specifically the best way to preserve those jobs. You could have taken other measures, for example more support for those entrepreneurs themselves rather than the credit insurers. I said then in that debate 'Okay, this can apparently work, but it is not well-founded and it apparently has to be done by Parliament within a week; then I want to make sure that the bill also comes from the business community'. The cabinet wouldn't agree to that. The cabinet said "no, we'll see about that later; we'll go through it first within a week and we'll talk about the bill later." That is why we voted against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u90	I note that if the SP had got its way, namely that vote against it, the market would have dried up and those SMEs would probably have gone bankrupt. At the same time, I believe that we have learned the right thing, and that is what we discussed extensively at that time about the way we did it last time. That didn't work and that's why we chose a different approach. Mr Alkaya just congratulated the cabinet for his speedy action, and now he actually blames the cabinet for having acted so quickly. Mr Alkaya is, however, stacking a number of inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u91	No, those compliments were for the generic measures to maintain incomes and avoid redundancies. I am therefore referring specifically to the NOW scheme. I am talking specifically about the Tozo, the TOGS and all the arrangements we have been talking about. In addition to the generic measures on which decisions were taken very quickly, including in the Chamber, the cabinet has also taken specific measures. We saved some time between our noses and our lips from a shipyard. We talked about KLM. The credit insurers have also stepped in. I have said that the bill is not being distributed fairly. It is not clear that this particular measure would work best to maintain jobs. As far as I am concerned, it is not to be explained that the taxpayer must pay for this. Just place the bill with the companies themselves. The cabinet didn't want to do that. The cabinet is still planning to reduce corporate tax. That is why we voted against some of these specific measures, not against all of them, but against some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u92	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u93	Mr. Chairman. Even the European Commission recommends pursuing policies that increase investment. The whole of the Netherlands has been waiting a year for the national investment fund of the cabinet. But the cabinet doesn't want to come to the Chamber for another three months. This is taking way too long. The same thing happened with Invest-NL, which should have been there after the banking crisis, but only started last year. That was ten years too late. Let's not make the same mistake again. That is why we have tabled an amendment to reserve the money and force the cabinet to speed up this fund. Does the Minister remember my unanimous motion of 12 March, just before all the corona measures? I asked the government to develop incentives that could be used as soon as the economic situation so requires. When is the Minister going to carry out this motion? There is a need for a plan, a vision to emerge socially from the corona crisis, unlike the ruins after the banking crisis. We must stimulate the economy by creating and saving jobs, and by better equiping our country for the future. Does the Cabinet agree with this? Since many of the crisis measures had to be taken as a matter of urgency, the cabinet has chosen to submit them to us in incidental supplementary budget laws. It has already become clear from the interrupting debates that I have reservations about this. We have dealt with 28 of these laws as a matter of urgency. Sometimes budgets even came into effect retroactively. Only in times of extreme need can such a limitation of budget law be justified. So we have gone along with it, but does the Minister agree with me that this time is now over and that we will return to normal relations after the summer recess? The corona crisis has also shown us the importance of medicines that were not directly commercially attractive. We therefore want to allocate EUR 100 million to a pharmaceutical fund for non-commercial academic research, development and registration of medicines. We are convinced that this will lead to lower drug prices in the future. Finally, international solidarity. We just talked about it, too. It is a public secret that there is a big fight behind closed doors of the cabinet about the urgent appeal of the International Affairs Advisory Council to help developing countries to combat the corona crisis. It is extremely striking that the CDA Group is asking for an opinion on this, Mr Jaap de Hoop Scheffer then comes up with a crystal clear opinion, and that the CDA Minister then seems to make it impossible for the Netherlands to do more to help developing countries. It's hard to wash hands without clean water and soap. It's hard to keep your distance when you live with your whole family in a small cottage. It's hard to repair the corona virus when there's no ventilator anywhere in the hospital. The CDA indicated that the cabinet is already spending an extra 100 million. But that comes from the development cooperation budget: no extra money has been made available for it. This money is therefore at the expense of combating malaria and HIV, for example. So we are helping people to fight the corona virus, but that is at the expense of fighting other diseases. That's not supposed to happen, is it? I therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to show solidarity and not to insist on cuts in development cooperation. It takes an extra billion to alleviate the most pressing need. That's what the International Affairs Advisory Council says. That is also what the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party are calling for, because when we talk about the corona virus, no country is really safe until all countries are.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u94	There's been an interruption. I thought Mr Slootweg stood up a little earlier, but I think that you have solved this generously again, and Mrs De Vries leads the way. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u95	It's always nice to hear the SP talk about security. When I listen to Mr Alkaya like that, I understand that the SP attaches enormous importance to the opinions of the International Affairs Advisory Council. I wonder if any other opinion of the International Affairs Advisory Council is seen as urgent by the SP when it comes to defence. It is said that it is necessary for this to go to 2%, the NATO standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u96	The International Affairs Advisory Council writes so many reports. I do not have this report on the retina, but when it comes to investments in defence, which I am not the spokesman for, I can generally say that if they go to the staff, we are always sympathetic to it. But if the investments go to equipment, submarines and fighter jets to continue the permanent war that the West is conducting in parts of the world, then we are extremely critical of that. If we need to go over this report and if we need to talk about it in the Finance Committee, I am happy to do so. But the 2% standard for defence expenditure is not sacred to us, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u97	But you're the Treasury spokesman. This is about money. I do know the story of the SP that we have to give it in salaries, but then we have to send them out without having any work at all or without having material. I must honestly say that you have a whole story here about selectivity. You are very indignant about that in other parties, but I think you should look at yourself, because this is also selectivity. I do not understand the indignation of the SP on other subjects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u98	Through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u99	This is all the biggest bullshit possible. Yes, we are making a choice for development cooperation and for international solidarity and against permanent war and against defence. That is what political parties do: they make choices when it comes to international and national policies. This does not mean that we have been set up as a political party to take all the opinions. I am in favour of international solidarity and of helping developing countries, specifically in the fight against the corona virus, and I am against the ongoing permanent war, including in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u100	Mrs. De Vries, again through me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u101	But you take everyone here the measure of selectivity. All you do is shop selectively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u102	No, I'm gonna step in. You must speak through me. Especially when you raise the tone, I would like you to continue speaking through me. I'm you and I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u103	Excuse me. Through you to Mr Alkaya: Mr Alkaya indicates a number of things and he blames almost everyone here in the Chamber for selectivity. But the only thing Mr Alkaya does here is apply selectivity when it comes to the opinions of the International Affairs Advisory Council. I think that's really weird. I don't think you should start blaming others for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u104	I will take note of that, but I fully support that choice. We are making a political choice by opting for international solidarity, for helping people abroad, for example when it comes to access to clean drinking water and the fight against diseases, and we are opposed to war and militarisation. This translates, among other things, into our financial policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u105	I hope I can play by the rules, too, Mr. Chairman. What I really miss in Mr Alkaya's speech is that when it comes to vaccines, he does not mention Minister De Jonge who has also argued that this should apply to Africa. I would have liked to have heard that in the story. When it comes to the 100 million from development cooperation, I am really proud of a cabinet in which the Minister for BHOS looks at what you can do directly for the fight against corona. I should like to congratulate Mr Alkaya on that. I am also very pleased that, with the support of others, we asked for this AIV opinion. I also welcome the fact that the cabinet is taking the time to do so. But just to come up with accusations, I find really very selective. I wonder what the SP stands for now. It seems more like the Selective Party than the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u106	If you look deeply in the eyes of the CDA Minister, who is now getting many feathers, and ask him to do so, we can do so in the form of questions from the D66 Group today, and he will also indicate that they are waiting for more space from this minister to do more, because there is a need in developing countries, because they are holding hands in their hair and because they cannot fight the corona virus on their own. I have argued here today that if they do not get out and if they do not get the virus under control, no country or the Netherlands will be safe, because of the open borders that we would like to return to. If you look at the proportions that we can see here, you will see that it is the D66 Group, and also the D66 Minister, who would also very much like extra money for this. So if the CDA Group is sincere in complimenting Minister Kaag, then I would also expect an appeal from the CDA towards its own minister to free up more financial space.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u107	Cabinet policy always speaks with one voice. But there's something I really don't understand. I have now mentioned that Minister De Jonge, who is going to stand in front of the vaccine, calls for this to be made available to Africa as well. But I missed Mr Alkaya when we spoke recently about the Special Drawing Rights for the IMF. Because it is not just the Netherlands that can do that; we must do that worldwide. As a result, money will be made available through the IMF to find support for this. Where were you then? Then why aren't you here?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u108	We have talked about this often enough, including in the Committee on Foreign Trade. We can also talk about the IMF, which I am not the spokesman for. Then we're talking about the terms we've set. The IMF is being used as a means, by the neoliberal parties, i.e. those in power in geopolitical relations, to force countries in need of aid to open their borders, to open up their markets to multinationals. We've talked about that enough times. And if the CDA really wants to make that an important point, I invite him to the discussions that we have in the Committee on Foreign Trade and Development. Then we can talk about that more closely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u109	You're ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u110	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u111	Fine. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to Mr Sneller, who is speaking on behalf of D66 today. He speaks for D66 at all. I was just about to say, what am I saying? But first it will be cleaned for you, so that you can also continue to speak on behalf of D66. Go ahead, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the General Financial Reviews, I spoke for a moment about the Minister's mushroom trips. I couldn't have sworn we were so close to the moment that we'd go all the way down the rabbit hole. Of the longest set of budgetary surpluses since the early 1950s, we have been bumping towards the greatest deficit since time immemorial. In one blow, public debt rises again above the 60% limit and economic growth falls dramatically. The Netherlands largely came to a standstill and is now starting again, for an uncertain period in which our adaptability will be crucial and will be heavily tested. Fortunately, our starting position to take these blows is relatively good, partly thanks to the efforts of recent years. Last month's debate on accountability ended with the optimistic observation that, fortunately, we are not doomed to repeat our past mistakes. The recovery phase therefore gives the opportunity to rethink how we want to shape the economy and society. As a social-liberal, I aim for a future-proof, sustainable, resilient and resilient economy, and a society in which we release each other, but we don't let anyone fall. Mr. Chairman. When you make those decisions, it makes a lot of difference what numbers you look at. In doing so, you must not stare blindly at GDP, which leads to bizarre conclusions. Hendrik Haan from Koog aan de Zaan who left the crane open: that is fantastic for GDP, while no value has been created, but only a wet floor. Or listen to Paul Polman, who mentioned the example: "As long as we give concrete value to dead trees but not to living trees, the world will be destroyed." Yes, these examples are absurd, but that is how it works in practice. It shows the importance of the indicators you use, the lens to determine how you look at underlying values. They are the foundation of many policy choices. In the Millions note and the CPB's credit transfers, the bottom line is often marked by economic growth and budgetary consequences. But, irony: that same Planning Office rightly calls on us to put the broad prosperity at the centre. I strongly support a role as an independent referee that brings a common factual basis to the political debate. I am therefore particularly curious to see how they themselves are going to make the announced attention to widespread prosperity in their passing on of the next election programmes. We see the same phenomenon in healthcare. Look, for example, at the broad review of care. It contains wonderful passages and good measures on prevention, for example on more prevention incentives in the risk settlement of health insurers, or on the national prevention facility. They are on trial, and they congratulate us on these solutions. But how much does it pay in the end? At the bottom of the line it yields €0. The same can be seen in Healthcare Choices in Map. We really need to get a deeper understanding of quality in order to make our choices more meaningful. Otherwise, because of that one-dimensional paper reality, we are failing the real world. This other broader perspective would also lead to more public investment, for example in research and innovation. There is so much unused potential there for more growth and development. The success stories are now known: internet, gps, touchscreen. These are all economic game changers thanks to public investment. But who gets the winnings and who gets the credits? Professor Mazzucato rightly says: a government-funded research project that fails is a gross scandal, but if a venture capitalist misses, then it is a valuable lesson that belongs to the profession. This is absolutely not a plea for failure, but for a different approach to the public case in question. In order to increase our resilience, not only a robust public sector is needed, but also a less volatile economy, with a housing market less sensitive to the economic situation. But we also need to increase the financial resilience of people themselves. On Monday, my group colleague Van Weyenberg presented an ambitious plan to abolish the surcharges. 150 members said they wanted to get rid of the system, but until now no one presented a concrete proposal on how to do so or, rather, how to do so. Because it was explicitly meant as a starting point for the discussion, not as the outcome. But what a boost it would give for the confidence in the government and the sense of direction The attentive listeners here recognize indicators from the Monitor Brede Prosperity, I say if we put an end to all the recovery of the surcharge system. What a boost it would give to the employment rate if the step to work, or to work a day more, would increase wages, and the marginal pressure between the minimum wage and €50,000 would decrease. What a boost for people's freedom it would be if the emergence of debt could be avoided, and the certainty of a cash-in-cash tax rebate, or a higher minimum wage could be offered, not to mention the abolition of mortgage interest relief. What an incentive for the development of all children, and for equal opportunities for parents to work, would be if child care were to become a basic provision. I sincerely hope that this discussion will not take place only after the elections, during the formation of the cabinet, when the time is limited and the shutters are closed, but just over the coming months. Mr. Chairman. Public investment therefore often recoupes in prosperity and well-being for society at macro level. Can I afford a brief micro-level sigh? Looking at the opportunities I've been given myself thanks to the government and previous generations, I think it's only right, and often a privilege, to repay that investment. Or actually "to pay it forward," as a very modest contribution to new investments, for example in future generations, such as the extra money in this Spring note to address the teacher shortage in large cities. But on a much larger scale, these new investments are needed, in equity and in our earning capacity. It has already been mentioned that the CPB appointed this in this Chamber. It was said to bring forward investments for the energy transition or housing markets. And also DNB says: continue to invest in construction and greening. What is the Minister already preparing to make decisions on this matter possible in the short term? And within the European Semester, the recommendations of the European Commission, we almost have a subscription to the recommendation to invest more in research and innovation. So my question is: what are the plans for the investment fund now? But let us not forget an important source of public investment: the municipalities, they were already mentioned. Municipalities invest 1% of GDP annually. I wonder now what the definition used by the CPB to calculate this is. But that percentage is falling, and it is threatening to fall even further. In addition to the structural integration and the operating deficits of municipalities, the corona crisis and the uncertainty about its consequences and compensation are emerging. It is now time for the CPB's independent calculators to say: for the basic path of the electoral programmes, which allow all the serious parties to pass on, I say, we are assuming a worse EMU balance of EUR 800 million due to deficits in municipalities. The scale-up discount is valued at 270 million less than the Empire. In other words, the Empire is unjustly wealthy. Does the Minister see this as well, and if not, why not? Tomorrow we have another committee debate on local finances. But by doing nothing, I think we're risking lower investments and higher taxes. That doesn't help to get out of the crisis. The Centraal Planbureau also showed earlier that municipal investments unfortunately work procyclically through the financing of the Empire. Finally, on local finances here: we often hear directors dissuade a proposal because it is not covered. That is a fair observation, but much less often we hear that a proposal is discouraged because it means extra tasks for municipalities, without providing the budget. In a healthy, equivalent relationship, apart from a larger local tax area also fits the more serious taking of Article 2 of the Financial Relationship Act. As far as I am concerned, it would therefore deserve a stronger place in our budgetary rules. I'd like to hear a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I think about that screenshot of Fox News from a few months ago. Upstairs, in big letters: the Dow's best week since 1938. And below that, the last three weeks, 16 million Americans have lost their jobs. I'm still not getting those two together. Let's remember that kind of absurdity during the recovery phase. Or, as Alice asked the cat, perhaps you could tell me which way to go? Depends on where you want to go, the cat answered. If we have learned from the past in our response to this, then we are really ready for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you. There is a question for you from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u114	Is it acceptable to the D66 Group if we cut development cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u115	We are here in the debate with the Finance spokesmen. What do you mean by a cutdown?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u116	It is then specifically about 2021. We are talking about the Spring Note, and we do not see anything about it. We ourselves have tabled an amendment to make additional money available for this year. Actually, we're just assuming that D66 supports that. But there is also a risk of structural austerity in development cooperation. I know D66 is against it. But is this acceptable in the proportions? Are they willing to swallow that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u117	A motion was first adopted by Mr Van der Staaij, and then by Mr Voordewind and others, in which the cabinet was called upon to take the AIV opinion on which Mr Alkaya spoke earlier to see what we can do and to ensure that it is prevented at all events. I'm excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u118	Finally, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u119	I also find it exciting, not necessarily for myself, but for all those people who need it, for all those countries that are unable to combat the corona virus properly on their own and with their hands in their hair. But I don't hear from D66 whether it's acceptable or not. I regret that, because this is the opportunity for the D66 Group to draw a line and say: until now and not further in this right-wing cabinet, we stand firm in this area. But I note that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u120	We look forward to the cabinet's proposal. I have every confidence that this will be a good proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u121	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Nijboer, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party, after the chair has been cleaned again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a spring note with budget adjustments that have never been shown before. That's obviously because of the corona crisis. In times of crises, when a major pandemic occurs, the government must stand for employment, to guide the country through those times. Then you don't have to discuss the design of packages and endless debate, but then you have to stand there as a government. The cabinet has made proposals in the crisis that are really unconventional. It has supported the PvdA, with some adjustments, such as more attention for flex workers. The dismissal penalty has been retained. The second package, with adjustments, continues until 1 October. Mr. Chairman. However, political choices are made in support packages. Now that we have a little more time and now that we can take a closer look at it, I would also like to look at those political choices that are being made. I'm gonna put some of them against each other. For example, on the same day that 300 million was made available for culture, 650 million was made available for ornamental and potato cultivation. There is no one who will deny that the farmers are having a hard time, not even the PvdA Group. But you have to keep wondering if that ratio is reasonable when you look at how many hundreds of thousands of people work in the cultural sector and when you see what the reward and contracts of those people are like, how hard the blow gets there, there's no more open theatre and how much culture is intrinsic value. Later, in order to complete the comparison, CDA and GroenLinks added another 200 million for the mink farms. Then I think: is the ratio between the 300 million for culture and the 650, 850 million, added together, for a number of specific sectors in agriculture? Isn't there much more to be done? That's what Germany is doing, and that's what Merkel stands for in order to protect our culture and guide it through this crisis? Mr. Chairman. A second equation. The Empire has let go of all the frameworks. That was also necessary; it is crisis time. In the case of municipalities, the cabinet forces them to cut back. They are obliged to present a balanced budget and must therefore intervene vigorously this year. Every city council currently has with the city council today is that in my city of Groningen so much the debate about which cuts need to be made, while we would not be cutting back in these times. Why does the cabinet not make it possible for municipalities not to present a balanced budget now, or does the cabinet not compensate municipalities for the costs they also have? Then you really do not come up with a 100 million or 150 million for reduced parking rates, some tourist tax revenues and some implementation costs for social security. This is in no way proportionate to the costs incurred by municipalities. I say to the right that this will increase the tax burden for municipalities. To others, to everyone in fact, I say that the facilities will vary: swimming pools will close, libraries will close and village houses will close if there is no intervention. I'm asking the Minister why that doesn't happen. Mr. Chairman. A third contrast. There is 3.4 billion in support and guarantees for KLM.......................................................................................................................................................... The First Chamber has already made itself heard by a majority. In the Lower House, part of the right-wing coalition does not participate, but in the Lower House there are about 70, 72 seats. Much more needs to be done for tenants. Why doesn't the Cabinet choose that? Don't you see what it means whenzzp'ers lose their income? If unemployment increases and people with flex contracts, especially young people, do not find a job, they will no longer be able to pay the rent. Do you see that, and that was already a major problem for this crisis? Mr. Chairman. One final equation. The cabinet still intends to reduce the tax on profits next year. That's incomprehensible. It wasn't necessary anyway, but right now. Companies that make profits can also pay taxes, and if you don't make profits, you don't have to pay taxes. And there's no structural wage increase for care workers. It is a one-off bonus, which has also been filled out as a mess and which employers do not want to pay out now. I wonder whether, for example, doctors in training should not be able to claim this. With the surcharges, it is still unclear. So why does the Cabinet choose to do that? Why does it make such a choice? Mr. Chairman. I also ask how the cabinet sees the process towards Millions Note and Tax Plan. After all, things have changed a lot. Are the frameworks maintained? What happens to the care premiums? The CDA and the VVD also asked for this. But my question is also: how does the cabinet provide broad support in both chambers? I can tell the Minister that it is really impossible for us to discuss this reduction in the tax on profits. The SP also voted against last year, just like the PvdA. Does the Cabinet engage in conversations? Is it going to stick to the frameworks? Is the cabinet gonna see it? The relationship with the First Chamber has also been better. I'd listen to that for once. The First Chamber has quite a valid, substantive point with regard to the tenants. So I'm asking the Minister what that's gonna look like. After all, he will need broader support. In any case, it has already been announced by left-wing parties that there must be some change in the coalition agreement, if the cabinet is to receive support, at least in the Lower House and probably in the Upper Chamber. I will not speak for the senators; I have learned that over the years. Mr. Chairman. The third and final point is about a few numbers in the Spring note. I couldn't help noticing Table 4. This includes the decline in tax revenues foreseen for this year. You can see that the income tax is falling by more than half. Of course, companies are having a hard time, but this is unbelievable. A fall in income tax by 14 billion. I ask the Minister how that is possible. Surely it will not be the case that companies that were fantasticly profitable last year de facto did not pay tax last year because of the permitted loss relief? Isn't that what the crisis measures were for? Take taxation, box 2; Mr Snels also pointed out. 1 billion for dga's, for lower usual wages. 3 billion in fiscal reserves. That's a lot of money in it. Today in the Volkskrant there is also extensive attention to it. There's 400 billion in box 2. The Minister's reply shows that interest relief alone is 107 billion for the profit tax. I wonder whether the size is not so great that it is actually not justified in substance. I ask the Minister to respond to this. As far as guarantees are concerned, I think that there is a good annex, but I would ask the Minister to look at the Millions Note to see if the claim to earlier guarantees can arise. The economy looks much worse, so there is a greater chance of a claim being made. That insight isn't here, and I didn't expect it to be. I would ask the Minister to provide insight, because that could have a huge impact on the budget. Mr. Chairman. I have more questions, technical questions, but I'm saving them for an interruption, because I'm through my time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u123	Fine. Unfortunately, no one will save you with an interruption, which is a pity. After cleaning, I give the floor to Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u124	Mr. Chairman. I have compared the minister several times in previous debates with the biblical figure Joseph. The grain barns were full by mid-March. We've been spared. Now it's full-bodied for this minister. The Spring note confirms once again that you should never count yourself rich with good grades. The supplementary budgets follow each other as carts in a roller coaster. It is precisely in this time of financial bad weather that I want to keep an eye on what is really important: an economy that is serviceable to people and society. I therefore welcome the fact that, in these difficult times, the Minister continues to hold on to agreements, such as the reduction of the Groningen gas, the reduction of CO emissions, the reduction of the nitrogen deposition. It is important that care for creation remains central. It also takes courage to maintain the budgets of all ministries in these difficult times and not to cut back. It is painful, however, that the link to gross national income is the only one which threatens to cut the poorest. Because that's how the system is arranged. But a continuing pandemic elsewhere is also a danger to the recovery capacity of our own economy. How does the Minister assess this threat of a pandemic in precisely the poorest countries for economic recovery in our own country? Mr. Chairman. When it comes to a serviceable economy, we need to talk about debt. Our economy runs on debt. Although we have our public debt reasonably in order, our already worrying private debt mountain is getting bigger. High debt causes and exacerbates crises and undermines recovery capacity. More and more young people are facing increasing payment problems. The number of households with problematic debts is also increasing. With the current incentives, that's not crazy either. Borrowing's cheap as hell. Students need to borrow to study at all and you buy cars on payment. The social costs of problematic debt are EUR 11 billion per year. The broad approach to debt by the Ministry of Social Affairs is commendable, but I would like to hear from this minister how he can accelerate the ambitions of the government agreement from his ministry and support it in the last year of this cabinet. He cares, structurally, at least 11 billion a year. I therefore pass on today from Viceroy Josef to the prophet Isaiah, who announced a year of grace in times of great tribulation. In biblical times there was a tradition of debt jubiles, a jubilee year once every seven times seven years, in which existing debts were forgiven, so that society could start with a clean slate. A debt anniversary was a means to restore the economic balance and put an end to hopeless dependency relationships. Even now, the Biblical principle of a jubilee year as a time of debt reduction can help us in economic recovery. The economists Klamer and Sanders presented this March in an opinion piece in Trouw. Earlier, the Christian Union, together with the CDA and the PvdA, advocated a debt buy-back fund. I would like to ask the Minister, in line with adopted motions on such a fund, whether he wants to make a greater commitment to debt relief and correction and whether he wants to put the jubilee year on the agenda literally and figuratively. A one-off investment in a debt buy-back fund provides structural billions. Is he prepared to consider the principle of one-off debt relief as an investment in the future for the still to be set up growth fund, an investment fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u125	I know the economists Klamer and Sanders well. In line with what Mr Bruins is saying, for example, they also support the plan to set up a national payment and savings bank that does not rely on debt but simply takes people's savings into custody and does nothing about it, but secures that money. Nevertheless, despite his warm words, Mr Bruins gave me a vote against, which we voted on yesterday. What's that all about? We are so often in agreement with each other in debates and such, but I can no longer count on Mr Bruins when it comes to voting. What's that all about?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u126	It was a very nice substantive debate, in which we talked about the future of our money system and in which I also congratulated Mr Alkaya on his own initiative paper. In the same debate, I tabled a motion asking the cabinet to examine whether ordinary people in the country could, for example, obtain a safe savings account from the Dutch central bank. That would be a very nice step towards achieving what Mr Alkaya is proposing. I voted in favour of that motion. That seems like a nice first step towards a safe way to bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u127	That motion was subsequently amended and then amended again. I can't escape the impression that Mr Bruins actually wants to, but the coalition doesn't want to. He also expressed warm words in this regard about development cooperation. That is another point on which some parties in word all say things that I think: yes, that actually sounds pretty good. But then, in coalition relations, something comes out that you think: how can this happen? It's not in the coalition agreement, but yet you, the coalition parties, somehow don't come out. When will Mr Bruins come to the moment when he says: okay, well, that's enough; now I've turned in so many things and now I'm going to stick to one of the points I really support?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u128	I appreciate the fact that Mr Alkaya sees what my heart is beating for. That's good, and that's where we'll find each other. And I think the time we spend together is close, too. And indeed, we abide by the government agreement; we always keep agreements, and everyone can expect that from the Christian Union. At the same time, we are always committed to our ideals, and we are doing so at this time, and we are doing so as far as we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u129	Did I understand correctly from Mr Bruins that he wants to buy up debts or cancel them with people? And does that mean that all those people who are now or are about to be stuck with this pent-up debt to the Tax Office because they are asking for a postponement of payment will soon receive the blessing of the Christian Union, who says: you don't have to pay it back? Is that how the Christian Union sees the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u130	Let me begin by saying that it is also a very biblical principle that debts should always be paid off; and preferably you do not incur debts. At the same time, we see that a lot of people are in a hopeless debt situation. They've actually become a slave to debt financing. And when you see that people are in a hopeless situation and never get out of it, and you see what hard times are coming, you can indeed consider setting up a debt buy-back fund. Because debt has become a earning model for cowboys at the moment, for people who abuse people in a very vulnerable situation in the wrong way. And if you do know that the debt industry costs 11 billion a year, and above all you are pressing the budgets of municipalities, then you can do that much more efficiently, and then you can indeed consider, and that is what I ask the Minister to reflect on to announce a one-time jubilee, especially in this time of crisis, and say once for all those people who are in a hopeless situation: we are going to help you. And instead of buying their debts from one internet department store to another Internet department store and from one collection agency to another collection agency, sometimes only 4% of the real value, you can say: we are going for that 4% as a rich, foundation or fund buying up debts. And then we'll be out in one go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u131	Buying up debts is, of course, something other than losing debts. I fully agree with Mr Bruins that if debts become a earning model, we are going to go to the wrong side, which we should not want. Of course, it is very dangerous for all those people to keep to the rules, not to over-indebted and pay their taxes, when they are told "you have had bad luck because you have paid your taxes," while others who still have a debt to the Tax Office are cleared by forgiveness of their debt. We shouldn't want that, but I understood from Mr Bruins that he doesn't want that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u132	Yes, it is. We want to focus here on people who are really out of debt with problematic debts. For example, if someone owes €10,000, they will be resold for €400 to €500 to another debt collection agency, which will then be knocking on the door with a big stick with that person who is already in a vulnerable position, saying: I want €10,000 from you. If you have a debt repurchase fund, you can buy that debt for €600, which is a better deal for the creditor. You can then go to someone like that and say: you have only €600 in debt. That's what you can do if you don't make a profit. That's a one-time investment in the future, a jubilee fund. That saves ministry 11 billion a year structuralally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u133	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to draw attention to the financial situation of municipalities. Since the decentralisation of the previous cabinet, municipalities have too many tasks and too little money. The crisis increases these concerns. The problems are piling up and the financial need is increasing even more now that municipalities have to bear the additional costs as a result of the implementation of the crisis measures, because their reimbursement is still unclear for municipalities. I would like to ask the Minister: in the supplementary budgets, is the included support for municipalities sufficient to actually bear their additional costs as a result of the crisis? Can the Minister outline the financial problems caused by the corona crisis in municipalities and can he do so before the August decision-making process? What is now regulated for municipalities and what is needed? Is the Minister prepared to allow the municipalities to submit a non-compulsory budget and to submit this budget later? Does he feel the urgency with me to send a signal to congregations right now that he sees them? Mr President, I will conclude. When Isaiah proclaimed the year of jubilee, he did so in a difficult time, but he foresaw that the ruins would be rebuilt and he pointed forward to better times. Those weren't empty words. He held on to justice as a guideline. Where the minister rightly held on to economy in good years, let him hold on to justice in these times of concern. A crisis is often abused by the most wealthy to become even richer, by companies to distort their competition and by politicians to increase their power, but let us instead pay attention to the small ones, to the most vulnerable. It is precisely then that we emerge stronger from the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u135	Thank you. Mr Stoffer of the Christian Union, sorry, of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u136	You are not the only one who sometimes makes a mistake, Mr President, but it really is not. Anyway, my brother of the Christian Union quoted beautiful words from the Bible and that always pleases me because it is good to make that sound here. I do have one more thing that puzzles me. Of that debt buy-back fund, he says that someone with a debt of €10,000 has only €600 in debt from that fund. Then you think, "So, that's a nice model." But who's gonna pay the $9,400? Actually, I'm curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u137	The strange thing about the model that applies in our country is that that money never comes back, because those people are in problematic debt and never get out of it. So that money has already been lost. This can be seen from the fact that in the free market debt collection agencies are shifting; such a debt of €10,000 is then resold for €400. That already indicates that those original creditors assume that they will never get that money back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u138	Then who's "men"? Is that the private market, a shop or an entrepreneur? Or is that Minister Hoekstra or is that the taxpayer in the Netherlands? Who is the "men" who then pays that $9,400? I don't even know how big the total is, but Mr. Bruins might have a visual on that. So I am curious who will be the pisang and so just never see his money again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u139	With a debt-purchase fund like this, you basically broke a business model that I find reprehensible, namely the trading of hopeless debt. You can prevent that from happening like this. You can make sure that the creditor gets more money than when he sells it to a collection agency via such a business model. At the same time, you can ensure that vulnerable people get out of their hopeless debts. And you're saving taxpayers money, because this structurally saves you 11 billion euros a year what you currently lose on social debt costs. So everyone's getting better. This idea of a debt buy-back fund is also supported by the NVVK and by SchuldHelpMaatje. They're actually ready to do it. All it takes is a one-time start. Because in the end, this is gonna make more money than it costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u140	Just to get the image sharp. My cousin owns a garage. Suppose someone bought a car there for $10,000, but it's not paid. Apparently, they'll have to put $600 in there. Is my cousin gonna lose that $9,400? Is that all the Dutch? Then who lost the money? 'Cause somebody's gonna get hurt that it's not gonna end up getting paid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u141	Finally, Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u142	At first, someone like that has to turn in his car, because he could never afford it. He has to pay back what he can. Debts are supposed to be repaid properly. But some people get into a hopeless situation through a debt relief process. People have sometimes fallen out of their debt into a hopeless situation. I am thinking, for example, of the people who have fallen victim to the tax surcharge affair. But there are many people who, out of their debt, have fallen into hopeless debts, for example because of incapacity for work or because of a death. Everyone knows and says: you'll never get rid of it. That is why there is debt relief. There are possibilities. There's guidance. But in the end, just when we see in these difficult times that a larger group of people will end up in poverty, I think you should see if a one-off investment can save structural costs as a government. A fund like that could help.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u143	No, Mr. Stoffer, you've already interrupted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u144	But, Mr President, I didn't actually get an answer. But in conclusion, I understand that my cousin has lost €9,400 in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u145	Thank you. Then I'm going to see Mr Van Otterloo. He speaks on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u146	Mr. Chairman. Mr Bruins explained the situation, but the garage owner had always lost his money, and that is what the role of debt restructuring is about. But it is not for me to support Mr Bruins' speech or to teach in debt restructuring. We're in a very special time now. The speakers before me have already referred to this. A compliment is due to the firm measures taken by the cabinet to relaunch the economy or to keep the corona crisis going. But it is a pity that, in some respects, the economy is still running out. €1,000 for the care staff is stark against what the KLM receives in terms of state aid per employee. In that we really should take a different measure. On the whole, we see a very skeptical approach whereby, for some sectors and companies, the money flows generously and, on the other hand, the old-fashioned way of billing the citizen, whether through the municipality or not, and not with the companies, is maintained. What exactly is the status of the investment fund in the context of exiting the crisis through investment? What about investment selection and speeding up processes and procedures? We do not want to hear later that the money cannot be disposed of or that other governments do not want to cooperate. Is it not time, in the light of this corona crisis, to look again at what society as a whole needs in this context and to reflect on a rethinking of the objectives of investment? Mr. Chairman. In the pension consultation it was announced that the interest rate would be abolished and replaced by the forecasted return. In short, 50PLUS is right after 12 years. But what can pensioners expect? Nothing, if it's up to the Minister of Social Affairs. But that cannot be the case. In replying to the oral questions put by my group colleague Corrie van Brenk, Koolmees admitted that after the announced abolition of the interest rate, it will take many years before there can be real indexation for the current interest rate generation and that it will always be less than that for the younger generation. Minister Koolmees admitted that, if this system had operated as he now proposes over the past 12 years, pensions would have been simply indexed. This cabinet wants to wait until the present generation of pensioners, who have not been allowed to receive an index in the last 12 years, is dead before they will be indexed again. I ask the Minister what has done to this generation that she is being treated in this way. Mr. Chairman. Something has also been said about taxes. Mr Van Weyenberg has made a proposal. We have problems not only with the Tax Administration, but also with the establishment of the whole system. We have received a large number of building blocks for a modern and new tax system this year, but the speed with which politics has so far been trying, for example, to solve the distressing situations caused by the problems with the childcare allowance is not promising much. But we still have six months to do it, in view of the elections. Alternatives have also been considered within 50PLUS. We saw the reports on Mr Van Weyenberg's proposals. Interesting. On some points, these agreements with what 50PLUS has already had passed on to the CPB. Precisely at the level of the individual, our plans are in many ways better than those of D66. In any case, our plans do not reduce 50% of the elderly, as is the case with D66. Next Friday, these plans will be published with the corresponding billing so that everyone can compare things. With the elections and a new government agreement in mind, hopefully there will be time for a lot of discussion on this, because it rains complaints, not only about complicated pensions, but also about complex taxes. I suspect that one third of all the e-mails we get are about discounts, premiums, surcharges and the like. Mr. Chairman. About the care two things. The failure to spend the available resources on community care and the allocation of that 341 million to the Long-Term Care Act considers 50PLUS to be incorrect. There are all kinds of doubts: are health insurers not deliberately trying to create this surplus by lowering indications? People need to stay home longer and the nursing home is gone as an alternative. Then it's inexplicable to do this now. The cost of care...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u147	You've run out of time, but you can finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u148	The cost of care is also separate from the corona crisis, because the Netherlands has already been crowned vice-world champion in 2015 and costs bureaucracy. This will therefore have to be addressed, rather than lamenting rising costs and market forces and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u149	Thank you. Finally, when he gets the room, I will give the floor to Mr Stoffer, who will speak on behalf of the SGP, after having been cleaned clean again by our unspoken messengers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mr. Chairman. Until recently, public finances have been like a house. Low government debt, high budget surpluses. Anyway, there were a few cracks in the house. A purchasing power which was left a little behind for some groups, such as earners, single people and pensioners. SME entrepreneurs, carers, agents and others who barely benefited from economic growth. But now there's been a real, big storm. Corona has shaken that wall of the economy, of the labour market, but also of our public finances. And the corona crisis has taught us that the economy is not fixable. It has simply shown us that we are also dependent on finance. But fortunately, I say, we have built a good foundation. Financial solidity is now very convenient. And that gives room to support the home of the economy with substantial support measures. Entrepreneurs,zzp'ers, employees, many have been greatly helped. In this respect, a compliment to the cabinet for how they did it. But I also have a question for the Minister right away, because I am curious how he looks at what this does with the sustainability of our public finances. That was already a less positive picture, but what effect does corona have on the sustainability of our finances? Can the Minister make any reflections on that? Mr. Chairman. The Spring Note also allocates money to other matters, such as 61 million for services provided by the Tax Administration. My question to the Minister is what this improvement is going to look like. What is it invested in? Is this done, for example, in more staff or is it going to tax offices in the region, a great desire of the SGP, so that if you have a problem with the taxis, you also have a real person of flesh and blood in front of you? I'd love to hear that from the Minister. He's smiling nicely, so I think I'll get a good answer. Last year, the SGP tabled an amendment to the Tax Plan to slow down the rise in the ODE tax. As a result, the renewable energy reserve would flow slightly less rapidly. But then we encountered all sorts of objections. There had already been commitments and so that money could not just get out of that reserve. I thought: yes, I will, but I am surprised to read that EUR 680 million is being taken out of that reserve. I have two questions about this. One, how can it be that a few months ago it was impossible to raise the reserve a little less quickly, when money is now being taken out for very different things? And two, can funds that have been collected for a specific purpose just be used for very different purposes, as now seems to be the case? Mr. Chairman. The aid measures have been set up under steam and boiling water, a statement which has been coming along a lot lately and which is, of course, also true. But at the same time this calls for purity and legality; a question I sometimes think about: is that true? Because a lot of support measures went in before the House of Representatives could find anything. The situation asked for it, so in that respect it was not at all the case from the SGP, but slowly we come to the point where we have to check whether we have handled it with caution and whether there has been legal action at all times. That is also a question for me to the Minister. How does he look at that? I would like to avoid the General Court coming up with a very critical report next year on how these expenditures have been made. That is why I have a question for the Minister. Is he prepared to discuss with the Court of Auditors whether it should do so or whether we, as Parliament, should request an interim evaluation of the effectiveness, effectiveness and legality of the measures now being implemented? I would like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to my conclusion. Because I said it in the beginning: The Netherlands stood like a house. But when the corona crisis is over, we'll have to strengthen the house. The foundation, I think, needs to be improved, strengthened. There was a good foundation, but we have now scraped it down firmly, so we have to refill it. In that respect, I also refer to the biblical story about the wise and the foolish builder. That wise builder first provides a good foundation and the foolish builder immediately starts building the house. I say that the importance of a good foundation has been demonstrated in recent times. In this respect, even when new storms and rain come to mind, we must remember that resemblance of the wise and foolish builder. For the house of that wise builder endureth; the house of the foolish builder faileth suddenly. I wonder if the minister from this biblical equation, this biblical story, will teach us a lesson for our future finances. Anyway, as SGP we say: investing in a good foundation is important for our society and economy, but we also need to support and continue to support corporate social responsibility and key vital sectors. Finally, we must look at each other, not only here in the Netherlands, but above all also in the countries around us and the countries a little further away, because I shall now come to my final question, Mr President...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u151	You're really out of time right now, so very short. One last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u152	It's my last sentence. My question to the Minister is whether he supports Minister Kaag in the implementation of the Van der Staaij motion, which has already been referred to a number of times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-07-01-tweedekamer-3.u154	Then I will suspend the sitting for half an hour, in which you can have lunch and the Minister has the opportunity to prepare the answers to the questions of the Chamber.
