ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u1	Let us now move on to the debate on the third aid package for companies and workers. We have arrived at the first term of office of the government. I understand that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs is the first to speak. That's the case. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. COOVID-19; I believe that the best explanation of that abbreviation came from Mr Asscher in this debate: 'It is storming outside'. Those were his first words. I can only agree with that. With the emergency packages 1 and 2, we have, of course, been able to alleviate much of the direct economic suffering. This has been appreciated in society and also in this Chamber. At the same time, however, a lot of people, including in this Chamber and in all honesty in the cabinet, are, of course, left with a very unsatisfactory aftertaste. Because, yes, there is a lot of economic suffering that we could alleviate, but there are also so much suffering and so much damage is not mitigated. 'Cause I don't think there's any meaningful soothing from a government for illness or loss. A financial concession or a safety net can never compensate for that fantastic job, can never recover those assignments and can never get that company, which was your life's work, back to its old state. For all that grief, there is no other medicine but looking at each other. That is so difficult for debate. That is so difficult for policy. That is so difficult for instruments. That unsatisfying feeling remains. But that goes even further, because the government can't pay for everything either. For anyone who loses his job, whatever position he is in, there is also financial decline. And any aid to a company also requires its own contribution. Each scheme has edge cases, further down the chain, with just different codes. Somewhere the help stops. And yes, the Empire has deep pockets and borrowing is cheap, but loans have to be repaid again and pockets are never infinitely deep. In addition, there is a party that is invisible in this debate. All those affected by this are "zzp'er, flexworker, employee or entrepreneur, all those categories "zzp'er' are also taxpayers. And the taxpayer is watching and judging this debate. With that, as far as I am concerned, we always have an unsatisfactory feeling about this debate. Many of the people present here have mentioned that. I agree with most of those things, too. I'll get right on that. But at the same time, there are those limitations. Before we get to the package, let me say something about the inherent dilemma of aid. Economics were never static. Even without a virus, they were not static. They're changing. If support leads to a film becoming a photograph, then we are probably wrong. It is therefore important to facilitate this at some point where adaptation is irrevocable, but in a warm way. Mr Asscher spoke nicely about how people should be taken out of a pit without first falling into a pit, when it comes to how they get a ramp over that pit. The dilemma is: if a package leads to a standstill, the first package inevitably led to it, then we are preserving something that will not be enough. That's the big dilemma. Secondly, we have, of course, learned lessons from previous crises. At that time, we learned that pro-cyclical policies are not salvaging in all areas. After a first stimulus package, there has been considerable savings. I think that we should have noted afterwards that this could probably have been otherwise. Investments have fallen back. What are investments? By far the majority of the investments are private investments. I would like to confess here: my biggest nightmare would be that we are now seeing a sharp fall in private investment. This means, in the short term, that we are losing jobs, that we are losing productivity in the longer term, and that we are likely to lose housing, which we still have the scars of. So that's my biggest nightmare. That's why the package is made up of those things. It shall consist of aid in such a way as to allow for adjustment. But with that adjustment, that warm gangplank. That's the second element. And the third is that we need to make sure that investment doesn't stop. You can also dream about further stimulating private investment. But let us be modest in this sense: the decline of investment from the current level must be avoided as much as possible. That's how the package works. And in the continuation of the support are the NOW and the Tozo, to which Mr Koolmees will be referring shortly. I've been asked questions about the TVL. I'll get to that. And much of the stimulus and investment package will be discussed again in other contexts, from the Tax Plan and the General Financial Reviews to the different budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u3	It might be a good idea to mention how you have built up your speech. Which parts will you take care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u4	I'm trying to say something about this package in general and then I'm taking some questions with me right away, from questions about the zombie companies to questions about what we're doing about it. Then I come to specific factors. Questions have been asked about that. And at the end there are two or three questions about specific liquidity measures. And then I'm out of speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u5	And the division between you and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Social Affairs? This is what I am asking for in connection with the interruptions of Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u6	Koolmeis discusses the accompanying policy, the whole social package and the instruments in the field of SZW, which I have just mentioned. And everything related to the budget, to the long-term adjustments and the long-term financial outlook from the rich budget, my colleague Hoekstra does.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u7	Then I'll go to Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u8	I hear the word "unsatisfying." But I also hear the Minister say that there must also be an own contribution to this crisis, to the entrepreneurs and to the workers. But does the Minister not agree with me that, when we look at the development of the virus and the failure of the cabinet in solving the problems, all this, when it comes to austerity, comes far too early? If, for example, you look at a sector such as the catering industry, where 40% is technically bankrupt and you are told that these austerities are going to be the neck blow for a lot of companies, isn't this austerity far too early?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u9	That question has been asked, including by Mr De Jong in particular. I wanted to get into that right now. It's more complicated than a simple yes or no. It is true that all kinds of support measures are being tightened up. In fact, they are targeted at specific target groups. They are aimed at, but sometimes also at, the companies that have it most, the companies that are most affected by the crisis. My argument is that if we want to ensure that a film does not turn into a photograph, we have to do much more than support it. Therefore, this approach is also broader than the former was. Here and there, enlargement is also on the agenda, but it is wider. It is also about investment and social accompanying policies. So there are also extensions in it. Mr Aartsen mentioned the higher ceiling for the TVL. He also mentioned the fact that we are looking ahead to nine months to give that assurance. But the fact is that in order to adapt the package there are tightening up in terms of target audiences, but there are also broadening and broadening. Mr Koolmees will also comment on the fact that, for example, percentages of fees have changed. As a result, there is also more room for entrepreneurs to adapt without directly compromising aid. So that's to make adjustment possible. I think that Mr De Jong would agree with me that we should not take a picture of a film, because then we do not have enough of ourselves and are about to find an old-fashioned economy when the virus is gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u10	It is beginning to become a kind of horror film, because it is about that entrepreneur and employee who sees that he or she will soon be out of a job or that the company will simply fall over. The letter of aid was sent at the end of August. In the meantime, there have been debates. There have been debates on how to deal with the coronavirus, the testing capacity and the laboratories, and so on. That's still out of order in this cabinet. We're looking at a second wave right in the eye. In other words, this is coming way too soon. There is no question of an economy recovering or of companies and workers who can recover or adapt to the economy. They're in big fat trouble. Of course, what the government is doing now is not sustainable forever, but my question is whether the moment is not much and far too early. If the cabinet sends a letter at the end of August, but in the meantime it may find out that it is far too early to look at all the signals from all sectors, would it not be better just to say that it is abandoning those austerities, at least until the end of the year, and preferably before the quarter that comes next?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u11	Now the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u12	Of course, it is clearly not right for companies to be unable to adapt. In fact, a very large number of companies have adapted in an impressive way, not only in terms of their work or their cost position, but also in the kind of activities they do. We have just seen that entrepreneurs have done an impressive job in adapting. We have given them more and more room for that with those packages. We are aware that we cannot keep entrepreneurs, but also employees, trapped in a business model that may not be there anymore. At the same time, it is so, and then I come to Mrs Palland's question, that as the loss of revenue increases, the aid also increases. As the turnover loss increases, more companies are eligible for this aid and the aid they receive is also greater. In the meantime, the aid is also there when adjusting the cost base. That is not something the cabinet unilaterally says: business is against cost adjustment, so let us force them to do so. No, the request was just to make the arrangements to create more space to adapt to that new future. We spend every week with entrepreneurs on EZK even more often and have to deal with companies that have the desire and ability to adapt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u13	Very briefly, because interruptions must be really short. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u14	With all due respect, we also get signals from sectors that they see a closed door. We are also getting signals from companies, many companies, many entrepreneurs, who say that they can't adapt at all and that adapting to them simply means bankruptcy or dismissal. I am not saying that there are not many entrepreneurs who adapt. That's what entrepreneurs are for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u15	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u16	Exactly. But you don't have to make it harder on them than it already is. Because you can also see the number of billions spent on it compared to NOW 1, NOW 2, and the whole package of........................................................................................................................................................................................... My only question is: do you not come to the conclusion that it may be too early? Can't you wait a few months to set up austerity? That's all I'm asking: isn't it too soon?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u17	Now Mr De Jong may be confusing a number of things. Yes, that austerity is there because we can also count on those adjustments. But he is now saying that this package also makes the adjustments difficult, while this package is aimed precisely at making possible the adjustments desired by entrepreneurs and which we have heard from all kinds of business organisations. I therefore believe that we are clearly trying to make these adjustments more possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u18	I am very curious to see how a reduction in the amount of aid from the NOW to 60% will make it possible to adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u19	In the past, if you reduced your cost base, that was directly deducted from the aid. There are other arrangements now. Mr Koolmees will explain this later on with regard to the NOW. This means that more space is created and there is a more favourable incentive to make that adjustment. That's what entrepreneurs have been asking for, and not for nothing. This is not only macro-economically important, but companies also consider it important: do not keep us trapped in an old business model, let us be real and adapt where necessary. They've asked and we're honoring that more and more with these packages.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u20	I have not yet had an answer to my question, namely how to reduce the remuneration of labour costs to 60%... I would also like to hear which employers have asked for it to be reduced to 60%.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u21	No, I didn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u22	You said: that is the question from entrepreneurs. I am very curious how this reduction in wage costs to 60% will help employers to adapt. I think that's a contradiction. I believe that this government has made plans in other times and that there is now a proposal that has already become obsolete. This Minister, too, has to acknowledge this and say that he is going to help the entrepreneurs, and thus the jobs and the workers, and that he is not going to do so. That dismantling doesn't allow for more room for adjustment. This phasing-out will result in bankruptcy, dismissal, unemployment and misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u23	Now we went for a walk in the park and we are back to square one. In reply to Mr De Jong's question, I have already said that it is not the reduction in the percentages that allow entrepreneurs to adapt, but that there are arrangements that make this possible because entrepreneurs can also receive support if they adapt. The austerity itself is because we also consider it important that entrepreneurs make those adjustments, but they are two separate things. It is true that the percentages are adjusted accordingly. It is also true that companies have more room to adapt. Those are loose ends. Let us not confuse them, because then the debate will become completely incomprehensible, and I agree with the speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u24	Shoot me! The VVD also tried to defend it with: we need to normalize. I don't think that went too well either, because normalizing just means closing down companies and firing people. I understand from the Minister for Economic Affairs that it is said that companies need to adapt and that this space is given maximum. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, If you lower wage costs to 60%, you don't make it easier to adjust, but you make sure that companies go over the top and go bankrupt, causing job losses. That's what this government wants.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u26	Mr. Chairman. There are, of course, all kinds of questions conceivable that both in the category "is the aid not too much?" fall as in the category "isn't it too little?" Mr Bruins had a legitimate question, which can also be asked, namely whether we are not creating zombie companies. Aren't we maintaining companies that might not have existed anymore? I think this is inevitable. That's because we can't take three months to assess the business plan with precision in all those companies, if we could already do that as a government. So yes, we give many companies the benefit of the doubt through the system we have chosen. We will. That's true. And that means that there will soon be companies that will have to adapt quickly, or perhaps even find that they have never actually been viable. That's right. Because we consider the mistakes of one species to be more serious than the mistakes of the other species, we have chosen to provide as much support as possible. At the same time, we want to give companies room to adapt. At the same time, the reverse question is the following. We'll see about that later. Then we come to different sectors and then, of course, there is always the question: isn't it too little? Yeah, look, if you had all the possibilities that were there in the execution and could deliver customization anywhere, you'd find that in a number of places it's too little. We have to note here that the government cannot solve everything within the framework within which we work, not only in terms of budget, but also in terms of implementation, time for customization and speed. That's extremely sad. I also have entrepreneurs at my table who can get very emotional about that. I see that point, but we must note that the government cannot do everything. "Not everything can be" I also want to use as a bridge to a small intermezzo. There have been a limited number of questions, but I would like to mention it here. It is extremely important that with all the fanaticism we have, we continue the search for what can be done, including what can be done in a second wave. During the first wave I started working with entrepreneurs, creatives and industry organisations in all kinds of different sectors. I used the word "protocols," but not everyone thought that was a friendly word. It was pretty quick to think about it, too. We then started to write down how it can be done, because not every SME has all those creatives at its disposal and because it is necessary to keep branches open. Sometimes partially open, sometimes in a different way open and sometimes adapted; all true. We need to focus on what we can do. That's what we did then. We made a big leap back then. A lot of industries have done fantastic work. I was sometimes moved by the proposals that were there and I see them in all kinds of places in practice. We're in the middle of a second jump right now. Sometimes because as a result of a second wave we have to think again whether we are doing well enough everywhere. Medical safety remains extremely important, otherwise we will have an even worse wave. But also because there are sectors that now have so little perspective. I never want anything but to believe that this perspective can be created, even with cleverness. With people who feel involved in this, I'm part of this too.I want to think how it could be done. Of course, there is always a basic idea. It is always important to bear in mind that the measures we can come up with with protocols or with the Empire never in themselves ensure that security. At best, we can come up with measures that affect behaviour and the behaviour determines safety. It's gonna stay that way. But nevertheless, it's time for that second jump. It's about field labs, for example. In the event business that runs. They're looking at it hard. It's about cinemas or theatres, for example. These are aspects such as ventilation, facial protection, track and trace and logistics. There are many ways of looking at it with the sector, with security regions and with scientists. Also EZK is there. Soon we'll see the fruits of that and see if there's a test phase that we think is justified. Can we do that? Because the search must continue. In the end, this is part of a toolbox of measures. The well tested examples can be included in that toolbox. In the flanks of this, TNO's research into, for example, those cough screens plays an example. It's coming soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u27	I am pleased to see the Minister speaking with such passion on this subject, especially to see what can be done, especially a safe coronaproof way. That's one of the opportunities to offer perspective. My question is this: how are we going to ensure that this really is rolled out on a large scale? We can see that there are ideas in a number of places, but that or municipalities do not give a permit, or that it is not allowed. We are looking for the opportunity to roll out all these brilliant plans that are coronaproof, and also scientifically substantiated, about our economy, I would almost say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u28	Of course, that depends a little on what comes out. Would Mr. Van Aartsen allow me to...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u29	Aarts without Van. It's Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u30	Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u31	Van's fancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u32	Yeah, the fancy variant. I always think of the fancy branch in advance. May I consider his question rather as an incentive? I cannot yet give an exact answer, but my passion shows that we may share this passion as well. I'm not part of the fancy branch myself, but I'm glad I'm part of it this way. What are the field labs? A sister of these are the smart distance labs, also an initiative of market parties with EZK. Scientists are among them. The first edition was live at an art fair and the first application will be during a tech fair. That is what is going on, and that is where it is about concrete testing and hopefully being able to roll it out on a large scale, and I always say that medical experts determine whether something is justified. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about specific sectors. That is understandable, because we are in a situation that we cannot provide everywhere with measures. Then you have to look very carefully at how that works out and that wrings in some sectors. Let's be honest. We all know the list of sectors in which the perspective is very bleak. They have a difficult choice, more difficult than many other companies. Those choices are about "I continue but I continue to bear my share of the costs permanently and thus make heavy losses." The pension may be on the agenda and it may mean heavy personal losses. The second is stop. That also sounds like a nightmare for many entrepreneurs who built that company. They got it from their parents and feel attached to it. The third option is somehow hibernation. All these sectors are somehow included in the generic aid package. For all kinds of reasons such as seasonal problems or very high costs, this does not always bring relief. In fact, the support packages are designed so that there is always a contribution of their own. If you're in the fall in sales, that own contribution is accordingly heavier. Mr Aartsen and Mr Bruins have asked what we can do with that. I was very charmed by Mr Aartsen's discovery of the Sleeping Beauty arrangement. I still kept it on hibernation, which is much more complicated, because you wake up from it yourself. But Sleeping Beauty touches a slight eroticism. What we see is that rigidly continuing to support not only for the government in many cases makes no sense, but that it also makes no sense for the entrepreneur. Also for customers and suppliers it is often no use, nor if the full slap in rent makes sense. At some point that doesn't make sense. That is why we are investigating the possibility of supporting entrepreneurs who come in severe weather in their search for private solutions to avert bankruptcy. We all know that bankruptcy is a second accident after a first accident. The company's on the ground. That's the first accident. Bankruptcy can sometimes be a second accident, with an immensely long aftermath. I have entrepreneurs in mind in particular who want to go through after a break, but this can also be used for entrepreneurs who simply want to stop doing so and who want to avoid bankruptcy. The foundation of this is the so-called WHOA, the Law on Accreditation by Private Agreement. That law makes it possible to bind several creditors to a collective, solidarity-based solution. That makes a lot of things easier. This can also prevent bankruptcy, without residual debts. But that's still too bald in itself. Imagine that SMEr. You say: here you have this law and these are the possibilities you have with it, and here you can ask permission from the judge. Well, you're a good entrepreneur when you say that: fine, I'm on it. We are therefore working on an arrangement based on WHOA. This concerns, for example, information, service provision, referral, advice from the Chamber of Commerce for companies in severe weather, and coaching by entrepreneurs from largely the same industry. The whole set of instruments is being developed. We're gonna need tools on that, too. There is an IT tool that helps entrepreneurs find their way into exactly how that law works. We're working on this right now. I think I should be ready somewhere in November or at least before December and have a proposal. The WHOA is, of course, the domain of a colleague, but working together we think we are done with that. However, it is important to see that these are solutions that should ultimately be addressed by private parties for each of these companies. The government doesn't come to settle all the debts. I can't. This is also not aimed at indemnifying individual parties, landlords or tenants. Parties really need to solve it together. As part of those conversations, the IRS is also participating. Aartsen mentioned that for a while. He had that come over. The Tax Administration also participates in the discussions on how the arrangement can look like. The one about the so-called TOA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u33	That sounds good to me. Good to hear the cabinet's working on this. We have indeed heard from several entrepreneurs the wish of so-called time-out arrangements. I heard the Minister commenting on the WHOA route that is already under way. We also have the Temporary Law COVID-19. I think it's almost like a hammer piece under the scheme. There is also an instrument in which a two-month bankruptcy can be parked. A kind of pass is then made in place to give space to come to agreements. Remember that private aspect that you mentioned. It then examines whether the bankruptcy can be averted and whether agreements can be made. I was just wondering how this relates to the instruments and arrangements you now appoint. I see you looking a little frowny. Perhaps you can come back to that in the letter about these arrangements that you have already promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yes, I will name that connection for Mrs Palland.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u35	I am pleased that the Minister refers to the Act of Accreditation by private agreement. That has become a beautiful law, partly thanks to beautiful amendments by colleagues Van der Graaf and Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u36	Rub it in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u37	It was quite a job to make a good thing out of that. It is good that the Minister mentions a number of measures which he is pursuing. I wonder, and that is what I was asking in my contribution, whether the Cabinet still has plans to explore further steps in bankruptcy legislation itself to better protect, for example, SMEs who are creditors, and, in that sense, to better align bankruptcy legislation with the practice we are currently in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u38	I can't really see that. Apparently, there is a contradiction with WHOA to get creditors to leave the debt in part while at the same time providing greater protection to ensure that the same parties do not lose the debt. I am sure Mr Bruins will also see this contradiction. But let me promise, à la the promise to Mrs Palland, that I will go into this after I have had good contact with my colleague, Mr Dekker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u39	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u40	Mr. Chairman. Then a number of sectors have been mentioned. I think it is important to say two things about this, but only the first of which has been mentioned so far. What has been said is that we cannot help everyone and that there are always sad holes in the instruments down the chain by codes that do not match and in special situations. It'll always be. At the same time, the second thing that needs to be said, but what has not yet been said, is that I recognise that it is important that the cabinet remains in dialogue with all these sectors. In the past, in the first and second packages, we have learned a lot from that. Those conversations aren't always pleasant, because not everything can. But the conversations are always cheerful, because you also learn things, see things you didn't know and sometimes you look at things differently. I do not want to raise any expectations in any of the sectors that have been questioned. However, I would like to raise the expectation that the cabinet will do everything in its power to remain in dialogue with these sectors. One of the directors who has so far played a major role in this, which is also considered to be her portfolio, is the Secretary of State for EZK. With a lot of firmness and conviction she talks to the industries. This should include, without mentioning branches, the open mind of the sectors concerned. It's complicated when there's a tendency to make a demand before we go to the table. Then you're not having a conversation. I think it is extremely important that we respect the Dutch polder rules, namely that we want to remain in conversation at all times and to listen to each other reasonably without having to put ultimatums in advance. I therefore confirm that we will continue to do so in relation to the various sectors, knowing that we cannot help everyone. One example of an industry, I believe, is that Mr Stoffer mentioned it as the coach industry. This sector, of course, has felt the crisis very hard. This sector has been contacted several times by the Ministry of IenW, but also by the Ministry of EZK, also at the beginning of September. The Secretary of State for EZK has received a petition and agreed to examine what can be done with the sector. In the discussions with the sector, it was promised that a written response to the proposals would be forthcoming. There will be that written response.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u41	Before you continue, Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u42	Maybe the conversation I had on Monday has a different load than the knowledge that is present at the minister's office. They indicated that they had sent a letter. If there is a written response to this later, it may be the acknowledgement of receipt that has not been received. But they said they wouldn't even come to the table. My specific question is: are we really going to deal with this sector or is this a sector that has set conditions at the front? They didn't call me in, so I don't believe in that either. My specific question is, therefore, and I would also like to make a commitment to this, whether there will be a debate with the President of this sector and not a letter saying: look at it. The sector is just falling apart, the first companies are already going bankrupt. This week we got back in on companies that are bankrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u43	My mysterious statement had nothing to do with this industry. I'll confirm that. I have just made a commitment that there will be a discussion from the cabinet by the responsible directors with sectors like this, because that is important and because you always learn things from it. But proposals are also being responded to. If there is another impression... I'm not sitting on exactly what happened, I don't have that right now, but I'm making you this promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u44	I'm gonna try to make this clear, 'cause I think we're gonna get close. So it's being discussed and the president is being invited to the Ministry of Economic Affairs by the end of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u45	It would be very rude of me to say here on behalf of the Secretary of State that she has an appointment and to say on behalf of the sector that they are invited and that they are sitting on the agenda for both of them. I'm not. They all deal with the agendas themselves, including the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u46	Mr. Stoffer, you want to know what time the call takes place?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u47	I want to know if it's gonna be real in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr President, I am speaking through you, but I am looking at Mr Stoffer. I admit that with sectors, including this one, I will ensure that there is a discussion with someone from the cabinet and that not only proposals are answered in writing. That is, in the foreseeable future, reasonable. I think that if Mr Stoffer and I both have to write on a page what we consider reasonable will be about the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u49	We agree, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u50	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u51	That's what I thought. Another sector mentioned by many spokesmen here concerns the organizers of festivals and fairs. There's something completely different about that. They depend on one or a few moments for their annual turnover. If you then follow the system with the reference turnover, you can see that the support for this is too limited because of that peaking. That is a real issue. They're working on it. The Secretary of State for EZK talks about this very frequently. She is doing so with great enthusiasm. We're working on it right now. As soon as it is clarified, it will also inform the Chamber. The latest information I have on this is that it should be in November, possibly at the beginning of November. At the same time, of course, there are also questions, Mr Stoffer asks them, Mr Aartsen asks them and Mr Van Haga asks them; Mr Van Haga even specifically mentions the tents as: are we also willing to talk to suppliers of this industry? Here I say it as strict as I admit it: I do not want to raise expectations. At every link in the chain there is another supplying link, and of that one and of that one again. Somewhere it stops, too. But: yes, I think it is appropriate to talk to this supplying sector, also for the information position of the cabinet, to understand exactly what is happening, what is happening and what is happening. I say this as I have already promised on other points. Mrs Van Brenk, I think, and Mr Stoffer are also asking questions about the TVL and the codes. Here too there is a struggle on the side of the execution, but at the edges of the sectoral boundaries it is really more uncomfortable. All kinds of procedures have been set up for parties who now find that they have the wrong SBI code to have it amended. But there are also codes that are so wide that they cover all kinds of business activities. There are companies that have codes for up to four different things. So it's not always easy. I must honestly say that the Secretary of State and I in packages 1 and 2 have been very much engaged in considering what can be done here. We have gone there to the limit of what is conceivable in the implementation. In addition, you also have people from the performance at the table who almost start screaming of misery, but who just admit that something should be possible. But there are limits to it, and I'm afraid I can't hide it. Mr Van Weyenberg is actually asking a non-monetary question about zoos. He mentions the support, but he also mentions something else. He says, "There's decades of knowledge building there." Unlike only parks with animals in them, they are also centres of knowledge. He's calling attention to that. The Minister of LNV is in consultation with the zoos. It is also in consultation with the municipalities what can still be done for zoos. That's the monetary part of the story. The Minister of LNV also asks zoos to become more future-proof, to draw up a transition plan and to pay special attention to the specialist knowledge to be secured. This is not only with regard to the core tasks of a zoo, but also with regard to education, conservation and all kinds of specialist programmes. Mr Stoffer drew attention to the fact that small sole proprietorships, such as small travel agencies, sometimes have to deal with different VAT declarations and such things. The calculation of the fixed charges, with regard to that TVL, can only be done in the same way for each company. It can only be done on the basis of the financial CBS data at two digit SBI levels. It can only be done on the basis of the same reference turnover, as it has always been defined in the same way, and based on a company's VAT return. In this way, account is taken of the level of turnover losses and the level of fixed charges, and is connected to the average company in such a sector. I say in the direction of Mr Stoffer that this is undoubtedly not in line with that precise undertaking. I recognize that, but the only way to ensure that people don't get the money in a year, if they don't need it anymore, but now, is to make sure that this standardisation takes place. This may have a beneficial effect on some entrepreneurs, for which I have very few complaints, and for others a less beneficial effect. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan dat niet anders dan accepteren.]] That is what I am asking Mr Stoffer. In particular, Mr Stoffer also asked about the voucher bank. Now that the travel market remains closed longer, that voucher stock is growing naturally. At some point those vouchers must be refunded, or returned for a replacement journey. Therefore, together with the travel industry, we are investigating the feasibility, but also the desirability, of a kind of credit facility linked to those existing vouchers. If it turns out that this is not only feasible and feasible, but also sensible, effective and desirable, then the cabinet will proceed and the Chamber will let it know. Specifically, Mr. Stoffer also asks about the order book in the utility building. My latest information was that the utility building now has a proper order book. However, my real answer to Mr Stoffer and I share, of course, the concern about the future turnover in that sector, is that the only way to really help that sector is by ensuring that private investment does not fall. That's the most important thing. Mr Stoffer has asked a very specific question about something that is my generic nightmare. I'm grateful to him for that, by the way. Two or three questions have then been asked about liquidity and liquidity provision in the specific scheme. If you look at the liquidity provision in our corona time so far, you can see that credit has been provided through all kinds of arrangements, but also by banks themselves, through all kinds of credit extensions, about 24 billion. Through the COL scheme, which ran through the ROMs, but also through deferred taxes, another 12 billion in additional credit was provided. So if we are talking about public debt rising to 62, from a thick 45, then you can think that another form of private credit that has been granted is another 5% of gross domestic product on top of it. That's the credit. I think that the banks have made a real effort in the end. They've done the lion's share, too. The IRS has also done a major part. In the end, that has come to a very large amount. The SGP specifically asked how that call went. Over half of them were turned down. Frankly, it was expected that 50% to 60% of applications and about one third of the amount would be met. That has also come out roughly, but there are all sorts of reasons why the ROMs do not grant it. The ROMs have extensive experience with this type of credit, but it may mean, for example, that there was no relationship between the liquidity shortage and the corona crisis. It may also mean that the company will never be able to repay it, or have no sustainable economic perspective or is not in the target group at all. These may be reasons, but the scheme has thus largely met expectations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u52	The Minister talks about lending and presents good figures. There has also been a lot of tax delays. Furthermore, the arrangements have been extended by the public authorities to enable banks to do so. And yet we still get a lot of signals from entrepreneurs who are not getting through well with the banks. Those companies really need credit, but they're still rejected. Does the Minister recognize that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u53	Oh, yeah. The Secretary of State for EZK and I have certainly consulted the banks very frequently in the beginning. And yes, not every applicant for credit gets the credit. We are there, facilitated by the banks, once in a while deeper to see what's going on. But it must also be said that some companies are applying for credit in a situation where Mrs Palland and I, if we were the evaluators together, could probably, with damp eyes, come to a negative opinion. Some companies ask for credit from a negative equity or from a business plan or a business model that is no longer sufficient. The money wouldn't come back, and we shouldn't. The government provides guarantees, but underlying it must be a healthy business case. Banks are companies that should also monitor their buffers; they are not printers of money, at least not at that level. We have therefore looked into this matter. We also know those signals, but it has not always been given to me to really go deep into the casuism when I'm addressed to something. I also come across entrepreneurs who appeal to me and sometimes it turns out after checking that I got half the story in the beginning. All in all, I have come to rely on the ROMs, the ability of the banks and the guarantees under which we provide them. I note that we have really provided a huge credit line with each other in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u54	Still a follow-up. I understand, of course, that we can't honor anyone who makes a credit application. So there will always be rejections, but the problem is diverse and it is our view that there are companies in between who are healthy in the core and who have a healthy ability, a good starting position or overvalue in their premises. Such companies are also sometimes not getting through well. There is still a commitment and I would like to bring it to the attention of the Minister. That commitment is that we will be informed again about the applications made and the reasons for the rejections. How many are there about and what is gross modo the reason for rejection? A commitment was made earlier in a legislative consultation on this subject, namely that we would be given a report on this. We think it is important that we get an insight into and a response to the signals from SMEs Netherlands and ONL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u55	Hmm, yeah... Previous commitments are earlier commitments, and I want to confirm them in the way they have been made. Signals from business organisations are not necessarily an answer to Mrs Palland's question as to what the reasons are. I have to take a look, because it seems that the commitment that Mrs Palland is now asking goes beyond the commitment that has been made earlier. I don't know if this is possible either, because I can't ask banks indefinitely what their reasons for rejection were. You can do more as the government is more involved in the form of those guarantees. So I don't know if I can produce this whole statistic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u56	Maybe in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u57	You may hold me to the earlier commitment, and I feel obliged to make it as extensive as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u58	We are indeed concerned about the previous commitment. He had a good balance in the reporting. We also understand that it can't go up to three digits behind the decimal point, but it could give us an insight into exactly how that goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u59	This sounds like we're on the same page. A final question is from Mr Stoffer. He had a bit of a critical undertone. The question was about Invest-NL. Invest-NL is not yet a major supplier of credit or equity in the different markets in which they operate, as Invest-NL is starting. Invest-NL is building expertise and commitment. It's an organization that's grown fast. All kinds of financial professionals working there, of course, didn't work there a year ago. So there is hard work on a pipeline, and before something comes out of a pipeline, all steps have to be completed. Several paths are now being launched at EU level to also unlock EU funds. These efforts will also lead to investment, because as far as I know the pipeline, there will be investment in this area too. As the year progresses, more investment is expected to follow. I think that the progress report will be an important moment to put the thermometer back in, and that will deliver the institution within a few months after the end of the financial year. That, I think, is another moment for Mr Stoffer and for me to look at the figures. Then I'm counting on his critical look again. Mr. Chairman. I am through the EZK points and Mr Koolmees will answer the questions in his area.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u60	In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for the commitment that the reference period for this TVL is still being looked at in depth. But I had also asked a question which I do not think I have yet received an answer to, namely whether the Minister is prepared to include corporate social responsibility in the allocation of NOW funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u61	The CSR belongs to my portfolio and the NOW belongs to that of Mr Koolmees, but he has won, so he will answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u62	Thank you. That is a nice little bridge to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment. Don't get too close, gentlemen! I now turn to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Resuming very briefly. Well, I've got a lot of questions, so I'm gonna answer for a long time. But, of course, on Princess Day, we presented the third package of support and recovery. So this is based on three pillars. One is the continuation of the support via the NOW, the Tozo and the TVL. Two, a large social package and three, investments to boost employment in the coming years. I am particularly concerned today with the NOW and the Tozo, because they fall on SZW ground, but above all the supplementary social package, the letter I sent last night. That's what I'm with. In that letter, I discussed in detail the Asscher motion submitted last week to the General Political Reviews. So I do the social package first, then the NOW, the Tozo and then a few other questions. That's the order I want to keep today. First, a little more detailed the background to the social accompanying package, because we have now made EUR 1.4 billion available. A letter came in late last night about that. I apologize for that. We have worked very hard over the past week to finish this in consultation with the social partners and to put it on paper properly. What do we want to do now? In fact, we want to provide appropriate support or guidance for the people who need it. That is also the idea behind last week's Asscher motion, in which we also see a cascade. Everyone, as Mr Asscher and Mr Van Weyenberg pointed out in the first place, wants to prevent as many people as possible from getting into a benefit situation. If you can go from job to job, that is obviously a preferable option, because then you have security and an income, and not the uncertainty of a benefit situation. It's good for employers, too, I guess. This is really the difference from the previous crisis. That was a long-term economic crisis at the heart of the economic system. This is a sudden demand drop, a sudden supply shock from a virus, against the background that in March we still had an unemployment rate of 2.9% and a million vacancies. These were job vacancies in sectors such as healthcare, education, technology and ICT, where there is a huge demand, even today, in these times. Looking to the future, we can also see that demand is re-emerging. Of course, the Central Planning Bureau also assumes economic growth next year. There is a great deal of uncertainty in that, yes, also given the virus, but the basic path of the CPB is 3.5% economic growth next year and thus growth of jobs again. How do we ensure that people are also helped from a job to a job? So we learned the lessons from the previous crisis together. We should also take lessons on what doesn't work. We must, of course, be efficient in dealing with taxpayers' money. But since the crisis is really different from the previous period, I also think it is much more appropriate to make a lot of money available now for job-to-job guidance, for the support and appropriate guidance of people. What's that look like? We tried to write that down in last night's letter. Actually, it's about the following. As soon as, for example, employers who are now receiving NOW support and who are now employing people through state aid, but also employers who do not receive support but who have to adapt to the new reality, see that adaptation is needed, they can indicate: some of my people I have to fire, unfortunately; where can I go to help myself to get from one job to another? That's actually line one. In yesterday's letter, we wrote that a total package of around EUR 300 million was reserved for this purpose, partly for the decommitment of the regional budget, partly for the sectoral approach, but partly for apprenticeships. The aim is that these learning places can indeed be used to help people from a job to a job, for example by going to work for four days and going to school for one day. In addition, we have also invested... Because, unfortunately, this approach is not working for everyone. We can see that now. There are already people who have flown into the WW or the assistance. But we also want to help those people. That is why we have made extra money available for the services at UWV and the municipalities. I am talking not only about services to help, but also about services in the form of training opportunities and development advice. These are all kinds of arrangements that are available to help people and to prevent them from staying on long-term benefits. I can see Mr Asscher standing there. There are also a number of examples that are already working well. Last week they came by during the General Political Reviews. Think for example of The Outboard Engine. Think also of the example of KLM and ActiZ, where cabin crew of KLM have become redundant and are helped through bbl-spots and other support to a job in health care. This is simply done by the employer himself, with the help of the unions. They say: you have a job there and a perspective on an income; without getting into a benefit, you can just go through the labour market. That's something we all want. Again, unemployment is expected to increase in the coming months. We had that discussion last week. Unfortunately, therefore, we cannot give a real job guarantee. I wish we could do that, but we can't, because unemployment is rising. But we can invest in appropriate guidance. People can claim the help and tools we make available in this package to move from job to job. In the letter, you were able to read all the parts in it. It concerns not only services, training, specific groups of youth unemployment and vulnerable groups in the labour market, but also the prevention of poverty and debt. A total of EUR 1.4 billion has been earmarked for the period October to 2022. Last night I set out in great detail in the table what that money is intended for. The last question in my introduction is this: my introduction to this point is about the employer's obligation. We've struggled quite a bit with that, I'm telling you honestly. We have included in the NOW 1 and the NOW 2 all kinds of obligations on pay-by-pay. The obligations on the grant must also be maintained. We now see that a lot of employers are in a different situation. Indeed, they are already facing long-term loss of turnover and need to internee on their own reserves for fixed charges and their wage costs. So we have been thinking about what obligations and expectations you can lay down with employers, also in full awareness that came back last week during the General Political Reviews that 95% of companies applying for support are small SME employers. They have no works council and no union representation. It is small organisations that have a great deal of difficulty in shaping this kind of policy. So they also need support. In NOW 3 I will come back to that in a little bit more detail, so from 1 October to 1 July, there is the possibility to adjust your wage bill to the new situation. How is that possible? This can be done, for example, by natural processes. For example, people retire and the vacancy will not be filled. It can also be done through an appointment with a union. For example, you say: I give job guarantees, but in return I ask my employees to give up part of their salary for a certain period of time. But of course it can also be done through dismissal of employees. We also see that happening. What is new in this third tranche is that it has no effect on the employer's subsidy for keeping the rest of the staff employed. In NOW 1 and 2, that was different. We have deliberately adapted this because we see that after six to nine months of interning the reserves, it will otherwise lead to bankruptcies. Then there was one specific question from Mr Asscher about the responsibility of employers. I listened very carefully to him in the first term. I very much sympathize with the feeling that you want something reciprocal; if support is given, there must be something against it. I would like to add one nuance, namely that employers are not reimbursed 100% of the costs. As an employer, therefore, I would very much like to keep people employed, also for social reasons. As Mr Wiebes has just said, there may be family members in your own company that you're not just gonna fire. Since we do not fully reimburse the costs, these companies are now putting on their reserves to keep those people in service. For many good employers this is therefore a tool and for some employers it will not be enough. They are going to go bankrupt anyway and have to have to fire people, the coming period, against their will. Those are the good employers Mr Aartsen mentioned. But I understand Mr Asscher's question. You want an element of reciprocity in this support. Mr Asscher's question in the first term was: how can you ask those supported employers to do their best to guide their employees, if they are fired, from job to job? I am prepared to look at how we can properly shape that in the scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u64	It is certainly an important point, which I would like to see clarified today, either by way of an address to the House or by means of an even more concrete undertaking than 'I want to look at it'. This package will enter into force on 1 October. As from 1 October, workers will therefore be covered by this new regime. I want them to be able to claim that guidance. I agree that most employers have an interest in this and are motivated by it. But we help with many billions. I think it is only reasonable that we should include this and that this obligation is clear. If this obligation exists, I am convinced that employers will comply with it. I have just made a suggestion to include it in the grant terms. I realize that's a tight variant. But I also think it is too little to say: we are going to look at it. I think that clarity should be offered to employers, but also to workers today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u65	Yes, I understand. I have a dilemma. On the one hand, we want the threshold to apply for it to remain as small as possible. Because those SMEs too should simply dare to apply for the NOW and not have to think: oh, what are the obligations behind it? If we don't, we're gonna put the horse behind the cart. I think that Mr Asscher agrees with me. I understand very well that you can make such a condition in the grant conditions. You then say: you get NOW support and in return, if you need to reorganise and fire people, you need to cooperate in helping from work to work. There are two things I find complicated. I really need to study on that. That's what I've been studying for, even since your first term. What about the execution, by the UWV? The second is the question of what sanctions can be imposed. For the vast majority of employers this goes automatically well. They're just gonna do this nicely. But how does that work with those companies that don't want to? This must also be subject to a proportionate sanction. If the penalty is, in a way, so great that you end up in a kind of zero subsidy, then you have the risk that the company will go bankrupt and the other people will lose their jobs. I don't think either of us wants that. So if I listen carefully to Mr Asscher's words, the search for a check mark is a definition of the conditions of the grant, which actually obliges you to cooperate in the supervision of work to work. But I really need to take a serious look at how we can ensure that in such an arrangement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u66	I appreciate that search. I think two elements are important. The first is the SMEs who may be afraid of it. I think it is important then that you show that the 300 million is for this and that it is also intended to help SMEs. Of course, you have almost 250 employees, but I am assuming small and medium-sized enterprises with few employees. Especially for the very small SMEs: get on it. So it has to be clear that you have an obligation to contribute to that job guarantee, so to help people you can't hold on to, but that you're not going to do it alone. Someone's gonna help with that. That's what the UWV's ready for. There are other employers. You're going to one of those lanes. So that's the way to convince people, not by saying: it's non-binding. The second element is the question of what the penalty is. You'll always get catch-and-go discussions and discussions about what the punishment should be. After all, it must not be worse than the offence. What matters to me now is that we make it clear in the regulation that it is an obligation. You will not be able to check all the forms, as is the case with all the aid packages. It doesn't make sense to go after all these employers either. I understand that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u67	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u68	But it must be clear that for employers who really are throwing their hats at it, there were Mr Aartsen and I also agree that there should also be a stick behind the door. Otherwise, this job guarantee will not produce what it is intended to yield for workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u69	I agree. The sequel I wanted to say was, with the money we're making available right now, we have that guidance for about 300,000 people. We have 40,000 development advice and 130,000 training courses. So we really do have a large number of routes available to actually support people, which people can also claim within the budgetary conditions that we lay down in this package. But yes, I'm willing to include that in the terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u70	Please continue. Oh, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u71	Of course, it is one when it is included in the conditions, but two is what happens if it is not met. What exactly is the demand we make with these employers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u72	That is exactly the point I just made towards Mr Asscher. I made two comments. I understand the issue of reciprocity of conditions, but I should like to study the feasibility, the penalty and whether we can achieve it. NOW 2 concerned 65,000 companies, most of which are SMEs. I'm gonna have to start thinking about how we're gonna get that map. The UWV can't control all of that; we have to be honest about that beforehand. There has to be a way to map that and, if that is the case, to impose a sanction on it. I'm not just gonna make that up here. I also need to consult with the UWV. I need to do that neatly and not promise things I can't live up to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u73	I understand. Would the Minister be prepared to see if this sanction could benefit the employee? He's sighing. When the employer fails to comply with the obligation to help the employee to move to another job, that worker is the victim. Then the penalty should be "at least," which would be the suggestion the SP would like the minister to give that employee gets a budget from that employer to act on his own.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u74	I can be clear about this. As sympathetic as I think it is, I cannot live up to this, not in implementation, not in labour law or in practice. We already ask a lot of our performers, especially the UWV. I have great respect for how they all do it and for what they can do, also bearing in mind the report of the Court of Auditors presented to you yesterday. Really compliments on that. I think Mr Asscher's question to the UWV is a complicated one, but I still understand that reciprocity. But I'm not gonna hang all kinds of bells and bells on that. I just can't live up to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u75	You're not prepared to look at that either. Because if we don't do this, it means that the employee is getting rid of it. He loses his job and doesn't get the guidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u76	No, that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u77	Then we get the situation that, as a society, we financially support that employer in order to maintain employment, that that employer dismisses people and then fails to comply with the obligation to contribute to work to work, and that the employee is therefore empty-handed and the taxpayer who has paid the aid. I don't think that's the way. That is why I call once again on this Minister to look seriously: can this sanction be imposed on the employee who is the victim of the employer's failure to comply with the obligation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u78	I think you mean it differently, but that aside. That's lyrical. We have put in a package with guidance, help and access to tools. This applies to everyone, including employers who do not apply for the NOW, but who do have to adapt. This also applies to those companies which have a 10% reduction in turnover and are therefore not entitled to NOW, but which now need to reorganise. This aid, this guidance with the regional employment offices, sectoral initiatives, development advice and training tools, applies. I understand Mr Asscher's point of reciprocity, because you can also ask for NOW support: if, for example, you have fired businessmen, then you want to counter it. I understand. But it's really impossible to carry that out to the employee right now. I just can't live up to that. So I'm not gonna promise you that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u79	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u80	Then there is the question by Mr Asscher and also by Mrs Van Brenn about what will happen in practice from 1 October. I have, of course, waited nicely for this debate in the Chamber, because you must allow me to spend money through the supplementary budget to start hiring people to carry it out. If I'd already done that... We're already recruiting, but without payment because I haven't received your approval as a Chamber. If there is approval, I have good hope of doing so, then we will be working very quickly to roll it out across all sectors, all labour market regions in the country, as well as sectoral initiatives. In doing so, we want to start with the regions where it is most vulnerable, which are now under the greatest pressure. That's three. From that side we want to expand it to the whole country. That's gonna take some time. No very long periods, but we have to start hiring people, people need to be put in position, people need to help and get a look at the problems. That's what we're gonna start now, if you'll agree to the money we're allowed to spend. Mr Asscher asked if there was sufficient budget. As I have just said, EUR 195 million has been lost, EUR 62 million for the learning areas, these are some sort of MBO practice sites, and EUR 73 million for sector-specific tailor-made work to support sectors such as caterers. Together, this is about EUR 300 million. But that's not the whole story. In addition, of course, we also have the service and the instruments at the UWV. They're all neatly listed in the letter. It is a complicated letter, because there are many different instruments, but our estimate is that we can help a lot of people in the coming crisis period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u81	I think of that as serious money. I was also concerned about the fact that they can count on that money, that support, and that these workers know it. The question that comes with this: to make it a success, great adjustments must be made, but it must also succeed in getting people to change jobs from one job to another. I would like to hear that at least a supplementary budget will be considered, because then you have done something economically sensible and socially desirable. So, yes, there is now about 300 million for such a job guarantee, for such a work-by-work plan, plus all the other arrangements, but if it is a success, I would very much like the cabinet to promise that enlargement will be looked at again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u82	What we agreed to in the cabinet is... The uncertainty is very great at the moment. We now have an expectation for the coming year, but we actually have no idea. The Central Planning Bureau has a basic scenario, which shows economic growth, but also a disappointing scenario, in which it is disappointing and unemployment continues to rise. The honest answer is that for me it is also a bit of a coffee-diving look. We have said that we need to take stock of the situation in mid 2021: what is the labour market and what do we need? If the labour market is worse, it is more. If the labour market is better, it is less. Then we make up our mind; also because we are now, in this crisis period, steering in the fog. Mr Hoekstra will also say something about this. And it has to work well, of course. There must also be first good signals that it really helps to help people from job to job. But in that context, I understand your question very well. If that's necessary, as a cabinet, we're definitely gonna keep our finger on the wrist and look at that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u83	It is good to hear that the Minister is ready to go, but I am still looking for the answer to the question that also comes from the Council of State, which we have already asked twice. The director should be with the minister. Will we now have a concrete plan of action by the end of this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u84	Yes. In fact, last night's letter states that in the coming period, i.e. weeks, we need to make further arrangements with trade unions, employers and labour market regions to give it a hand and a foot, so that people can also get to work, recruit and appoint people. But we need to do that quickly so we can start helping people as soon as possible. Maybe people are getting really mad at me right now, but I'd like to clarify that by the end of the year. I think I will come back to that in the budgetary treatment of SZW.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u85	Yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Aartsen said: away with the fragmentation, one window per region and not only for employees but also forzzp'ers. You read in last night's letter that we do indeed have room for accompanying self-employed workers in finding a different income, for example. And indeed, as far as possible missed out in the region, so that social partners, i.e. employers and trade unions, can work together with the UWV and the municipalities on a one-stop shop. Partly to shape work by work but also partly to guide people on the benefit back to those sectors and companies where there are still vacancies. This includes the self-employed. Mrs Palland had a question about the regional approach: how is the Minister going to steer? Can an external envoy be appointed? The latter is exactly one of the points I was thinking about myself. Because you have 35 labour market regions, in which, of course, aldermen and municipal authorities have a responsibility. So I was also thinking of an external envoy, who can help on behalf of the Empire at national level. If it's all right with you, I'll come back to that later, when the thoughts are a little more advanced. Mr Bruins asked whether there was a greater need for traineeships and traineeships and what role the government could play, for example in traineeships and apprenticeships for young people in education. Agreements with employers, including government employers, on start-up places and internships can be included in the regional plans of approach in the 35 labour market regions. They can also make use of this €63 million from the third aid package for short-term training and retraining of mbo practice. That money is also intended for that purpose. Mrs Van Brenk said that older jobseekers and employees lack perspective. Last week we had a good debate on this with the Prime Minister, and that was something we had before, in the AO of two weeks ago. Supplementary services address the needs of workers and job seekers. Unfortunately, the older jobseekers are in a vulnerable position. We know this from the experience of recent years. For this reason, they will often be eligible for this additional service. I indicated yesterday in the details of the support package that we are now starting to provide services to vulnerable groups. Indeed, elderly people often have a vulnerable position. So they will be helped. Will the Minister also look at examples from Sweden? Yes, I am also inspired by examples from abroad, including Sweden. Sweden has a rather different structure, since trade unions and employers often work together at local level and also implement social security. That is something different than in the Netherlands, but these examples can be very inspiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u87	It is good that the Minister is looking at that, because it is indeed better to act preventively than to be at the end. I was just disappointed: thirteen pages and not a word about the elderly. I just found that disappointing. I would appreciate it if the Minister would at least ask his officials to appoint it more specifically from now on. And maybe he can just help me because there's a pretty hard piece on page 10, I think. That's about the RVU ticket. Yes, that's just as difficult: tailor-made sustainable employability scheme, early retirement, subsidy for activities. In short, what exactly does that say?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u88	I don't have it in hand, but I kind of know it out of my head, because I've read it a lot in the last few days. There is the motion tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders in the pension agreement debate, with the question of whether there is any possibility of bringing that system forward for heavy-duty professions. It says that the grant will be formally granted from 1 July 2021, but that we will see opportunities for this to take place by 1 January at the latest. From that moment on, you can carry it out, so you can be sure you're entitled to it. That is the move we are making towards Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Smeulders on the basis of their motion in the debate on the pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u89	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u90	I didn't even need the letter for that. I come to a number of training points. I shall begin with Mr Smeulder's question on the development opinions. I, too, have read Mr Kalshoven's column. That was a painful column for me and a pleasant column for Mr Smeulders. I have also sent an app about this to Mr Kalshoven, but that aside. I understood his point. We have also looked over the past period at the development recommendations, which have been completed very quickly. We had 22,000 entries within a month; that's just as much as the whole last year. We have therefore also made available 30 million in the new package for 40,000 new development advice. At the request of Mr Smeulders, I considered whether this could be done earlier. This could be done earlier in the implementation by opening the period from 1 December, so that people no longer have to wait. If your Chamber so requests, I am prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u91	I'm glad we can do that. It may well be that the Chamber is going to ask for this and I am going to table a motion on that. The only problem I have with it is that the 40,000 is being taken so hard. I think we learned from the first time that it is a beautiful instrument. I would find it a little painful if within a month or within two months we register 40,000 people and say to people who have just prepared and who have found a coach, that it can't happen again. Is the Minister also willing to see if it could be more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u92	The finger and the whole hand... Yes, but of course there are budgetary consequences. So we need to think about that. In terms of numbers in the execution it could be. What is more complicated is to adapt the framework conditions of the scheme. We can't do that in the short term. We really need to wait a little longer. The arrangement that we had on 1 December opening up to more people can be technical, but that requires a proper request from your Chamber. Mr Van Weyenberg asked about training: how was the use of R & D funds secured? It's very simple. One of the cross-compliance conditions of these sectoral schemes, for example, is co-financing from R&D funds. In Mr Asscher's example, for example, this is grafimedia. This is such an example of intersectoral mobility, from one sector to another. That is a prerequisite in the subsidy scheme we have rigged up. Mr Bruins asked whether employers who gave a job would also receive a subsidy from this section. Various schemes are possible, e.g. the bbl-learning job. Speaking of which, last year, there were 130,000 bbl-spots. Of these, 45,000 were in the health care sector, and I say to Mr Stoffer, who asked a question about this, because there are also the vacancies. Through such a bbl-learning job, a fee for the costs of the guidance can be applied to the grant scheme for practical learning. We also have an additional boost of 10.6 million for the years 2020 to 2022. Above that, resources for retraining and further training are also available within the third aid package. SME employers in deficit sectors, i.e. sectors where there are real job vacancies, can claim funding for intersectoral training. That has also been taken into account in the plans. How does the Minister view the initiative of MBO, HBO and VSNU? I had Mr Maurice Limmen, Mr Duisenberg and another member of the MBO Council whose name has now slipped my mind. This is about learning rights. I think it's a nice idea. I indicated earlier at Borstlap that I also find the learning rights complicated, because it brings with it a huge financial claim in terms of design. But of course we are developing the STEP budget, which is due to run on 1 January 2022. It contains individual learning accounts, which is in line with that lifelong development phase. I also see this as a subject for formation, I say honestly. One of the questions is how to anchor the design of lifelong learning for the coming period. The Minister of Finance is about to discuss the recovery fund. The motion for a resolution by Mr Palland/Bruins on the involvement of the region in the road map for a lifetime I will take part in the lifelong development roadmap which I will send to your Chamber together with Mrs Van Engelshoven this autumn. I'm gonna get things mixed up now. I now come to a separate block about young people. Last night's letter contains a passage on youth and youth unemployment. Mr Smeulders asked about a few specific things. Does the Cabinet also look at the Participation Act, especially when it comes to people under 27 years of age? You will indeed have fewer rights, for example to earn a living or to be eligible for reintegration tools. And you also have that four-week requirement. The cabinet shares the concerns about young people, which is why there is considerable extra money in the supplementary package for this group. However, the four-week search period in the Participation Act is an important instrument. This makes it less self-evident for young people to have direct access to assistance. That's the thought behind it. We do support young people with the support and recovery package. However, I am prepared to look further into the need for additional measures so that young people can be supported in order to return to work as soon as possible. But Mr Smeulders is not yet satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u93	That is true, also because I made an explicit plea for a crisis income. We first tried to deal with TOFA something for flex workers and for young people. That turned out to be complicated despite all the good intentions. Then I think it makes more sense to look within the existing system. We have the Participation Act and we have the assistance that is actually just discriminatory for young people. I refer to that month's waiting period or search period. That's not fair to young people. Would the cabinet be prepared to consider at least during this period of crisis and the duration of this package, whether we can equalize those rules for young people and whether we can give them a fair chance of receiving benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u94	In my memory, we have partly done so in the first phase at NOW 1 and 2. That would end on October 1st. What is Mr Smeulders thinking about in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u95	I'm thinking of two bigger topics. The first is that the month's search period is off the table for at least vulnerable young people and that municipalities are given the opportunity to tell other young people that they are immediately receiving benefits. The second point is perhaps even more fundamental, but I think it is at least as important. I really don't understand why you should be earning more than 27 now with over €200, but it's much better than nothing, and that young people shouldn't. Can't we just settle that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u96	I'm willing to explore that first and the second, I think. But I suspect you'll have a motion on that later, in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u97	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u98	Yes. There was a question from Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins about school leavers. How can we help this group? There are three measures, including an integrated approach for MBO students. Students from the pro/vso are guided to further education, also in early alignment with municipalities. For vulnerable school leavers who leave education, there are additional resources for guidance to work, if possible in conjunction with the retraining and retraining I have just mentioned. Aftercare is also provided, so that school leavers without a job can get support to go back to school or work. 80 million has been earmarked for this approach. Mr Bruins also asked about the future for young people in technology, health care and that sort of thing. I have already replied implicitly to Mr Stoffer when it comes to the bbl-spots. For 130,000 bbl-spots we now have extra money, now 63 million for these learning jobs, including 35,000 places in health care. There's a lot of space there, just like in technology. There too, in the coming period, I really see a lot of perspective to interest people in the technique. So we certainly have an eye for it and it's also in these plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u99	It's a nice technique, let's just say. I have made a comment about the school leavers in my contribution. I'm worried that a lot of high school leavers don't end up in the card boxes. The schools still have them on the retina. At some point, they end up at home on the couch. Parents sit with their hands in their hair. They won't be in a system anymore. Now the minister says he's paying 80 million for school leavers. Can it be taken into account in any way that we do not lose sight of school leavers, but that we can continue to actively pursue them through schools, civil society organisations and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u100	Yes. I interpreted aftercare as this point, but even if it is not, I think it is a good point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u101	I don't go through that much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u102	That I think things are good points? I'm very generous, at good points!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u103	I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u104	Social service has a role to play in youth unemployment, also because social service is between 14 and 27 years old. This also offers opportunities for supporting young people in finding the right training or employment and thus also fits in with the approach to youth unemployment of VWS and SZW. Mr Stoffer had questions about the bbl-spots, the learning spots. Why are they limited to agriculture, catering and recreation? That was not the case. There is only a separate tranche reserved for these sectors under the Labour Market Act in balance, to compensate for the premium differentiation, but the large bulk of bbl-spots is therefore also in sectors such as care and technology. This lies with my colleague Van Engelshoven; hence it might be a little less on the labour market table. There is also a lot of room in the package for further learning of young people. 260 million has been earmarked separately for young people who want to stay longer in school, also on the assumption that they will be better equipped to enter the labour market. We have therefore taken this into account in this package as part of the second tranche of training. Finally. Last week, Mr Azarkan asked the Prime Minister a question about vulnerable groups, especially young people with a migrant background. Then I was nodding. They have been given a separate place in this approach, because it is indeed a vulnerable group. From the VIA, the Further Integration in the Labour Market, we know that migrant young people in particular receive the first blows when they are economically struggling. That is why they are explicitly in the approach for young people and vulnerable groups. I knew that last week, so that's why I was nodding when you asked that question. But the Prime Minister didn't know, because I hadn't sent the letter yet. Then the NOW questions. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Bruins asked: can conditions be included in the area of imvo and inclusiveness in the NOW? No, you can't. What we did do is this. The conditions relating to dividends and bonuses are in the NOW. I thought it was the Jetten motion that dealt with that, coalition-wide signed. However, we cannot judge, especially in those 90% to 95% small SMEs, whether they operate according to imvo. We just can't maintain it and we can't control it. That is why it is not possible; it is simply not feasible for implementation. Mr De Jong of the PVV said that there is room in the NOW to reduce the wage bill. Why doesn't this lead to dismissal? I've just indicated in my introduction that that space is there to adapt to the new reality when you've absorbed your reserves. There are three ways to do that. One is through natural course. This may involve people who are retired or those who voluntarily leave for another employer. A second way is to make agreements with the trade union movement, whereby a wage sacrifice is made for a job guarantee. This leads to a lower wage bill. The third way is indeed discharge. This can be done through business-economic redundancies, and it can be done by means of setting up agreements. That space is needed without compromising the subsidy, so many entrepreneurs have indicated to us, otherwise there is a risk that the subsidy will not be applied for. They will not be able to apply for the aid that is available because they cannot meet these conditions. That is why we have included this provision. It goes along with the evolution of the percentages. The first fee goes from 90 to 80, but the pay-as-you-go goes from 100 to 90, I'll say. So it goes along with those percentages. That has been considered, I can tell you, precisely in order to increase the possibility of adaptation during the third aid and recovery package. In this way, I have also explicitly answered Mr Stoffer's question, namely on the possibilities for adjustment. What is the reference period in NOW 3? I will come back to that next week in a letter to your Chamber about the arrangement, which I am expected to publish. We're working hard on that. I want to publish that in one go, otherwise you'll get the risk of behavioral effects you don't want. The Tozo. Mr Van Weyenberg...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u105	Before you continue: Mr De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u106	There are austerities at the NOW. Whether you're a hairdresser or a catering entrepreneur or you're in the event business, you'll be happy to have a package. But if you don't have access to it, it's not gonna do you much good. Does the Minister not agree with me that, when we look at a second wave in the face and therefore we have to bear in mind that a lot of entrepreneurs are still facing a lot of problems, those austerities may come too soon? Are you not prepared to do everything in your power not to make things more difficult for these companies, but rather to make it easier for them to do so, and at least to remove the austerities proposed by the cabinet in the coming months?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u107	According to the very first proposal, which we discussed with the social partners, we would have already raised the turnover threshold by 1 October. When we presented that proposal to the social partners, employers and trade unions said that you should not do that now, but you should not do that until January. So that's what we've changed. Over the next three months, the turnover threshold will remain in the NOW, but also in Mr Wiebes' TVL, as it was in NOW 2 and TVL 2. At the same time, we see that we are now six months and seven months away and that a lot of companies are really out of reserves. Because not only labour costs have to be paid in part by themselves, but also on the reserves with the fixed charges. It's just not real anymore to think you can go on. Then you'll come to other arguments. Mr Wiebes has just spoken to Mr Aartsen about the 'time out arrangement' for companies which really have 80% to 90% turnover losses. That's the kind of arrangement you need to think about. For companies that have been affected for so long by more than 20% turnover losses, the reality is that we need to adapt to this new reality. We are making room for this in this package by adjusting these percentages. Mr Aartsen was right to say that, in the case of TVL, the amounts are going up not only in terms of wages, but also in terms of the scope for the company to adjust the wage bill, precisely in order to adapt to the new reality and to prevent you from going bankrupt. Then all people lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u108	With all due respect, what kind of strange remark is that? Every time I hear several spokesmen and several rulers say: adapt to the new reality. It's terrible what's happening right now. Companies are falling down, employees think they're losing their jobs, one in three Dutch people expect to be unable to pay their bills in the coming period. Then the least you can do is make sure that a company is not made more difficult to use. Then you're talking about that TVL, but access to it is restricted. Why the hell would you do that? Why don't you just leave that as it is now, because we now see that the cabinet is not in order when it comes to dealing with the corona crisis. The second wave is coming, it's a big drama. Then make sure that you do not restrict access to the TVL scheme, which you broaden on one side. Then do it at least. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u109	I'm gonna answer in three ways. First of all... I and my colleagues have had a lot of conversations with entrepreneurs over the last period. The common thread in these conversations is: this takes six, seven and expected more months for my company; I'm going to adapt, because I'm not gonna survive this. We also have discussions with the employers' organisations, one day before the summer in Amerongen. That is the reality of many entrepreneurs. Mr Wiebes has had talks about this, I have had talks about it, Minister Hoekstra has had talks about it. That is the reality. A second point is that the Central Planning Bureau has also advised us. They looked at the NOW and said: you need to gradually adapt to the conditions. We have taken on board the advice of the Central Planning Bureau in this regard. The third layer is a counterpart, a counterweight of your question, that is Mr Bruins' question about zombie companies. Mr Wiebes has just replied. It is better to take the risk of over-subsidising than under-subsidising, otherwise in the core healthy companies go bankrupt, and we do not want that. But it is part of the balance that we have to make with taxpayers' money. So there are three answers to your question as to why we have come to this measure. Moreover, in consultation with trade unions and with employers' organisations, who also see that for some parts of sectors the reality is very grim. That's not nice, but that's really the reality we need to take into account. Mr. President, I was at the Tozo. Mr Van Weyenberg had asked a question about this. Is that only limited to the Tozo 3 target group? That is not the case, it is not limited only to Tozo 3 but is also available for other self-employed persons. How is the effect of introducing a power test in the Tozo monitored? We have a voice monitor under 130 municipalities where we request information so we can track what happens to it. It's continuing. Mrs Palland asked about the problem of border workers. Is that gonna be a little bit more on both sides? There are about 7,000 entrepreneurs, of which about half live in Belgium and Germany who are border entrepreneurs. They also comply with the hourly standard of 1,250 hours per year for the self-employed and are insured under the Dutch system of national insurance. We've got a map, I'll tell you what. Of course, we don't have all those 7,000 entrepreneurs in the picture. Of those 7,000 entrepreneurs, about 3,500 are in Belgium and Germany, so the rest are elsewhere. Not all these entrepreneurs need support. Some of them do. We are in contact with the Euroregions, as promised, with the request to understand the numbers and nature of the problem. We have also relaxed access to the Tozo for the provision of working capital. In addition, self-employed people with a company in the Netherlands but living abroad can use TVL, the NOW and the tax measures. They are of course available to those entrepreneurs, even though you do not live in the Netherlands but your company is based there. In addition, there is a discussion on this issue with the European Commission. That's happening right now. Unfortunately, I cannot say more than this. Mr Van Kent, Mrs Van Brenk and Mr De Jong had a question about the abolition of the partner income test and the capital test. Mr Wiebes has already explained that we are building on 1 and 2 and actually gradually going back to regular social security in mid 2021. At least, if the basic scenario of the CPB comes true, I'll say so. This is another step towards the regular safety net. This is in line with the regular welfare rules we have, which also apply to the partner key and the power key. Of course, a custom power key applies tozzp'ers. For example, the capital in pension paid-off or the capital from an own house does not count in this capital test.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u110	Short, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u111	That's exactly what I had a question about. On the day the Tozo application is made, the power available will count. If a self-employed person pays the money into a blocked deposit account one day prior to that application, is the asset test a wash nose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u112	That's what you're asking me about. It's about pension assets. In my view, pension assets should be reserved in a pension product that can only be paid after the retirement date. For example, those funds were already exempted from the asset test for assistance. I believe that Mr Van Weyenberg played a part in this a number of years ago. Is that right? All you have to do is nod. Yeah, that's right. That's paid-off assets. You can't get that as an entrepreneur. This does not come to benefit until you are retired, actually similar to a second pillar product for employees. You can't touch that until you retire. That is the rule as it applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u113	Perhaps the Minister could then return to the blocked deposit account in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u114	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u115	Let me ask the question in a different way. If an independent on the day before applying for the Tozo relieves capital on the mortgage on his own house, is the capital test a wash nose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u116	I'm freewheeling now. That's always very dangerous. Technically, I think that's true, but I'm gonna take a look at that for the second term. Then the money is in the house and you can't touch it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u117	You'll return to that in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u118	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u119	Finally. If these two simple examples prove to be correct, wouldn't it be wise to refrain from the power test? Flyenthart, the director of the Nibud, has already said that this is punishing good behavior. €45,000 is a lot of money, but if you are self-employed, have built up your own pension and have it in a savings account or otherwise available or available, then €45,000 is not a high amount. So the question is: if it turns out that this money can be locked away in this kind of simple way, wouldn't it be better to abandon the power test? It is then a wash nose and promotes behaviour that I do not think we should want to organise together in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u120	I think it's very reasonable. Honestly, I'm surprised by the SP. If there is a large capital of over €46,250 that is freely available, which is not in your home and is not on a separate pension account, I find it very reasonable that you cannot claim a benefit from the Tozo of €1,000 or €1,500. In fact, in the assistance, the limit for this power test is much lower. Frankly, I am surprised by this remark from the SP angle. I might have expected it from the liberal angle, but from the SP angle it surprises me quite frankly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u121	I suggest you move on. No, Mr. Van Kent. We've agreed on the number of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u122	If I'm not allowed to respond to this, the Minister keeps coming up with this sort of thing. We're getting reports from self-employed people who have built up pension assets. That's a lot of money soon. For an ordinary employee, this often amounts to hundreds of thousands of euros. A self-employed person who has spared an apple for thirst or a pension for later on can no longer claim this Tozo. Those are also very ordinary people, I say to the Minister. This minister, like the SP, should also stand up for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u123	I do. That is why we settled a number of years ago, and I therefore referred to Mr Van Weyenberg's initiative, among others, that if you have paid your pension funds into a pension scheme, which is exempt from the capital test. That happened a few years ago from the thought that it really is for later and that you can't get it anymore either. That's the argument. All other power is freely available. That doesn't apply to that. That's the arrangement we have, including in the Participation Act. In fact, I have already answered Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Asscher's question about early withdrawal from the subsidy scheme in the case of Mrs Van Brenk's interruption when it comes to: what exactly does it say? We can adapt it in two ways. We can draw a part forward so that it could be used de facto on 1 January next year. In doing so, it coincides with the RVU exemption Act, which is included in the pension agreement; the early retirement tax. It is in your Chamber for treatment, and we need to get to work quickly, so that we have the tax-free basis on 1 January to allow this system for early retirement between employer, employee and the government, which pays a particle. We have earmarked EUR 1 billion for this in the pension agreement for the period 2021-2025. Soon I'll be coming up with a cabinet response. For the sake of clarity: November. I'm gonna do it this way. Mr Bruins asked if there was enough money available for the SW companies. We've already made 90 million available to the sw companies before. There's 50 million now. We can see that, in the first phase, a large part of the income of these companies has been lost, but production is now getting back on track. We monitor developments there. Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS asked if the cabinet of homework could make a right. The Work Flexible Act provides a legal framework for the right to work at home. The employee may submit a request to the employer. That request can then be accepted. The employer may not refuse this application until he has consulted the worker on the matter. Rejection can only be done with a description of reasons. Should employer and employee really not come out of it, the employee may object to it before the court. So that's the Law on flexible working. In order to prevent an interruption, I think that in the coming months this discussion between trade unions and employers will be intensified, because they see more people working longer at home and also asking about health, office chairs and safe working. So I think we will have a more intensive discussion on this in the coming months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u124	There are more and more articles in the newspapers about very nasty things. In addition, illness is the only argument not to come to the case. As you can see, employers still put pressure on employees. The question is: could the minister, and also the cabinet, not do anything anymore, because working at home really helps to combat corona? Shouldn't there be a little more energy and efficiency in that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u125	At the press conference, the Prime Minister and Minister De Jonge extended the period of advice to continue working at home. In my ministry, that's followed up neatly by my officials. I've been zooming and webexing all day. If there's any signs of that, I'd like to dive in there. I'd like to make that commitment. Not in the very short term, but in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u126	The Minister is so eager to answer that I would like to put another question to this. In addition to the point Mrs Van Brenk raises here, we are also getting a lot of reports about discussions in the workplace about staying home with people with colds, about rising absenteeism and about the costs of it. Does the Minister have that on the radar and are also talking about it with, for example, the polder?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u127	Sure. Part of it was in the Asscher motion for a resolution during the Corona debate on workers. Some of them have been brought to the attention of employers, especially SMEs in the Netherlands, when it comes to pay-for employers. It's very complicated, also very technical. We're talking about that. If we can report anything more about that, we will, but it's really very complicated, I can tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u128	I have indeed heard your warning, that it is complicated, but it is nice that at least it is explored and discussed in the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes, I spoke to Jacco Vonhof of the Netherlands-SME last week about this, including the question: what are you thinking? The last question is from Mr Azarkan. Why won't there be a second TOFA? Very briefly, it has turned out less than we thought. We thought it would be 100,000 people; in the end it became 11,000. It takes a lot of implementation; it has been very difficult to implement this, so we have not extended it. I have a few amendments to make. Do you want me to talk about it right away?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u130	That's right, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u131	They're not in order. The amendment in part No. 15 members of De Jong and Wilders are about turning back the austerity. I have just argued why we have come to this approach and this phasing-out towards mid 2021, so I would like to advise against this background. Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment to item No. 3 concerns the removal of the application requirement and the obligation to re-enter. We want to discourage this, because it does not fit in with government policy. Mr Van Kent's amendment to item No. 11 contains, to summarize briefly, a dismissal fine in conjunction with the maintenance of the wage bill. First of all, there's a technical point. The amendment has been tabled by the Budget Act, but it is actually part of the NOW 3 scheme. So it doesn't really belong here. It's not a budget law; it's the arrangement that I'm sending to the Chamber next week and what I think we're going to talk about separately or sometime soon in an AO. We have, of course, chosen to apply or apply the wage bill option, unlike NOW 1 and NOW 2, because we are really a few months away now. I have also explained this in other questions, so I would also like to advise against this amendment. Mr Van Kent's amendment to item No. 12 is about the abolition of the partner income test at the Tozo. That's what I've been talking about, why we did that. So that's what I'm trying to dissuade. I see Mr Smeulders saying that GroenLinks is in favour of this. Mr Gijs van Dijk's amendment to item No. 13, I'd advise against it. Let's do that. I read: The search period is completed in such a way that young people who return to the municipality after four weeks receive a benefit with retroactive effect. What we did do, however, is that in that first period with NOW 1 and 2 we excluded the search period until 1 October. Mr Smeulders has asked questions about this. I'm willing to look into that. I would like to discourage the amendment in itself. Gijs van Dijk's amendment to item No. 14 is about increasing assistance for young people from 18 to 21 years of age from the low rate to the high amount of €1.025 per month. We have an arrangement for that in the Civil Code. The youth standard comes from the parental maintenance obligation. This applies up to 21 years and therefore it is a lower amount. Against that background, I'd like to dissuade it. That's all it was. Now the Minister of Finance can move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u132	There was one more amendment tabled by Mr Smeulders on the resources for NL. Has that changed? Oh, I hear it's moved in. That's good to know. Mr Van Kent has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, you're generous. I had asked a question in my term about giving students access to the Tozo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u134	Yes. You know the answer. This has already been discussed several times in the treatment of the Tozo 2. The legal basis of the Tozo is laid down in the Participation Act. This exclusion applies to students, as the Participation Act identifies study funding under the BSF 2000 as an appropriate and adequate provision. Mrs van Ark has spoken a number of times about it in detail and in the previous period she has rejected a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you. Mr. Van Kent, you are free to withdraw the amendment. You will only be given the floor if you withdraw the amendment. Otherwise, we'll wait for the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u136	It wasn't an amendment. It was a question that had remained and in answer I get a lecture on how the law works. I appreciate that, but I knew that, of course. My question was whether the Minister is prepared to adapt it, especially since there is also some willingness and movement around the waiting period. The Participation Act is, in my opinion, being temporarily amended in connection with corona anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u137	I think the Minister knows...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u138	I think there is an additional argument and an opportunity to take a step in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u139	The Minister knows what you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u140	Yes, this has been discussed extensively in the third supplementary budget on Tozo 2. We said that we didn't want to and we didn't recommend it at the time. It's still the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u141	Well, I think Mr Van Kent knows that. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u142	Mr Van Kent knows that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u143	On the same point, I would like to ask whether there is a technical problem. At the Tozo 2 I felt that it was said: it cannot be legally. Now that the Act of Participation is indeed going to be dealt with, as Mr Van Kent also says, can this point be taken right away? Can't do it, or doesn't the Cabinet want it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u144	I'll get back to you. That's the Secretary of State's wallet, and I'm not going freewheeling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u145	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u146	Thank you, Mr President. There are three issues on which I would like to comment. The first concerns the Treasury and the economy in the longer term. The second concerns a few questions, from various Members, on taxation, and there were a few questions in the other category. In the first piece was "deep pockets." I will say a few words about the exegesis that has been put on it by the various speakers. Mr. Chairman. I come first to the budget and the whole package. For those who might have got the impression that it's actually all rather shaky, it might be good to say the following. The whole emergency package together will cost as much as the budgets of BZ, BHOS, Defence, Justice, Infrastructure, EZK, BZK and LNV combined, per year. We add the same amount for the guarantee schemes. Those who had the idea that it was all very thin should see it in that perspective. Moreover, I remain of the opinion that it is really well spent, both the real money and the guarantee scheme. Unfortunately, you will never get that money back. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the preview. Several speakers have of course also pointed out that the outlook is, of course, very dependent on what happens to the virus. I would like to say that the task is for all of us to prevent such a second lockdown at all costs. It is not for me to comment on the Chamber, but there has been some frivolous crossing, if I may put it this way, from a second wave to a second lockdown. The damage of such a second lockdown would really be disastrous for the economy and for public finances. So I very much agree with what Mr Asscher said. Shouldn't you at some point put the stick in those arrangements and look at what's going on and whether that also means what your arrangements are like? I think that is wise to do so, for example in the first quarter of next year or perhaps even at the beginning of the first quarter. I would like to highlight that the difference between whether or not a second lockdown is really huge. I'll just talk to the Planning Bureau. That is a difference of plus 3% economic growth and minus 3%. That simply means hundreds of thousands of extra unemployed. So the impact of that is really enormous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u147	Were you done with the first subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u148	I was a long way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u149	I think that Mr Asscher will help you, and so will Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u150	That's usually the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u151	Frivolous? I said in the General Reviews: it is like a debate on the Titanic here. "Frivool" is what I find when you say: the numbers are running up so that we delete the last round in the pub, we expect it to be fine and work on a toolbox for the rest. I fully agree that we should avoid a second lockdown. I would ask Mr Hoekstra to convey that message to the Council of Ministers tomorrow in particular. It is now necessary to intervene in order to prevent this from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u152	For the record, it seems that Mr Asscher felt addressed. That was not my intention, because I agreed with him on the need to put the stick in the emergency package at some point. I would just like to point out that if things are significantly worse because of a second lockdown, you can talk about doing extra things in those arrangements, but in the context of a much larger economic problem. Not so much Mr Asscher, but some others took things quite automatically in one mouth, namely that a second wave will automatically get the meaning of a second lockdown. I believe that the task for all of us in society is to prevent this, because its damage to health care, to society and to the economy will really be disastrous.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u153	Apology accepted. Nevertheless, it is important that this is discussed in the Council of Ministers tomorrow. I also fully agree with the need to prevent those dark scenarios from coming out of the planning agency, but I think it would be wise not to delay such a weighing moment for too long. Since we are going to phase out this arrangement on 1 January, I would ask the Cabinet to come back to the question before the new year: it is right that the package was made until 1 July, but how does it relate to what we are seeing now? I hope that in the current scenario, which is already black enough, we will stay, but otherwise we will return to the Chamber in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u154	We agreed on that, too. I will, by the way, congratulate Mr Asscher on the debate technique, but I also very much agree with him on the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u155	Good to hear from the Minister of Finance that this package can always be adjusted depending on how it goes. Let's hope it doesn't happen, but that could be down. Fortunately, it can also be adjusted if it is really necessary. The lockdown. The cabinet has just indicated that it wants to take regional measures. I also said in my own speech: if you put the whole Randstad and Brabant in the lockdown, it might still be a regional lockdown, but one with which we have quite a large part of the economy, so to speak. Can the Minister of Finance say whether he is referring to lockdown in the context of this package?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u156	For the scenarios of the Planbureau they have of course just done an arithmetic exercise about whether or not a second lockdown. That is the difference between plus 3% and about minus 3%, a gap of 6%. A random viewer may then think "6% is quite little," but it is really about a lot of bankruptcies and hundreds of thousands of extra unemployed. In the longer term, it would also be a huge problem for the economy and the treasury. I therefore agree with Mr Aartsen and with Mr Asscher that, in this context, you should look at the arrangements for the short term. But in the long term, you will have to deal with a very different issue for the economy and public finances than we already have. Mr Aartsen further asks what the impact is of only a lockdown in Amsterdam or Brabant. Roughly, that's a function of what's in those CPB numbers. It will be much less, but Mr Aartsen also knows that in Amsterdam and the surrounding area, between 0.5 and 1 million people are involved. There are also a lot of people who move in there every day. So that impact will be pretty good. The same applies to Brabant, which is a region with enormous economic activity. It is one of the three most populated provinces of the country and therefore there too the damage will have quite a lot of impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u157	It's good to make that negotiable. You can say "we wait until the lockdown, before we do anything with the package," but multiple regional lockdowns can also have quite an impact.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u158	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u159	I think it is therefore a good thing that the cabinet is going to look at the criteria and determine how many regional lockdowns you really need to do something about. That question is absolutely urgent, when it is unexpectedly going to take longer than the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u160	Very much so. Again, I wanted to mark this because of the damage to the economy. But I would add that I am also doing it because of the wider damage to society and the collateral damage to public health. For example, delayed cancer treatments, heart disease and medications that are not collected. The damage will also be enormous. It is therefore an important task to prevent this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u161	I'd like to move on to something I just heard. This package is now running for nine months and it is longer than previous packages. That is what we are doing, because I think we want to give businessmen and employees security. I understand very well that we are saying that if corona gets worse again and as a result, the measures become more stringent. But I wouldn't understand why we're saying we're gonna take some of this off in the next few months if it's okay. 'Cause I think we're just trying to create certainty. Can the Minister of Finance confirm that, regardless of how Corona is going to run, it will not be any less than the package that is now before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u162	I have two things to say about that. The first is that, of course, these arrangements are so structured that they are, to a large extent, also dependent on the status of the economy. I agree with what Mr Aartsen has just said about whether many or few companies use these schemes. That's why there's these buttons in there that make you, if things go well enough with your company, not using that scheme anymore. See also the big difference between the first phase and the second phase. For example, at the time of the first package, the NOW was used much more massively than in the second phase. It is true what is said that we have deliberately opted for clarity and overview. I have heard this myself from many entrepreneurs who have said: the government package is very helpful, but give us an overview and clarity for a longer period. What I have just wanted to mark there was I with Asscher and with Aartsen is that if the world changes completely, you must also want to change the package. I don't think the odds are that great, but in theory you should want to do that the other way too. It's a little hypothetical, but what if you had a vaccine in the short term and the whole economy opens up again? There can be flown again, the performing arts have no problem anymore and the discotheques don't. Does it make any sense to go through with this? I don't think so, actually. Moreover, the schemes would no longer be used, since no one would be able to meet the 30% reduction in turnover.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u163	I am now a lot more reassured by the Minister, but not quite, because I believe that this package is intended to provide certainty for entrepreneurs. That's why we're doing it for a longer period. Let us hope that there will be a vaccine very soon and that we will be able to return to a normal world very quickly, but I think the Minister is right to say that they will no longer use it on their own. If you still have to use it because your order book isn't full in one go, that's all right, isn't it? Then we can help healthy companies a little longer to get them back on their feet. Would the Minister rule out the option of changing it down? Otherwise, I think we have a counterproductive effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u164	Well, then we're fooling ourselves a little bit. We want to provide clarity for a very long period. See a package for nine months. Then some speakers asked: what if force major occurs? Something much stronger than what you would expect and which, for example, would mean a second or perhaps even a third lockdown. Then are you willing to change the package? The answer of the cabinet has always been: yes. Now Mr Smeulders is actually asking for the opposite. Suppose something happens that makes the sun shine in the sky again, will I promise that even then the cabinet will not shut down the package in any way? Apart from the fact that it seems rather theoretical to me, that would also be curious. 'Cause once again, if you were tomorrow, it's all theory that the whole population could administer a vaccine against corona, wouldn't I be crazy to go through with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u165	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u166	Mr. Chairman. Now that Mr Smeulders and I have resolved this, I am in the area of taxation. It is perhaps a good thing to highlight the fact that we have deliberately opted for a generous policy of deferment in the field of taxation, with a payback period of 24 months. We have turned to the buttons of the tax rate, especially in the belief that this is really how entrepreneurs should be catered for. We have then seen that, first and foremost, entrepreneurs have made very wide use of them, and then, in particular over the last few months, they have started to pay back massively. You also hear quite a lot of entrepreneurs saying: my business is actually relatively mediocre, but I suddenly have a lot of cash and I must have started paying part of that account. What I found to be both understandable and good is that Mr Aartsen has done to her, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Stoffer and, in my opinion, others are also saying whether I can look again at the period of delay we are offering. I think that is a logical and sensible suggestion. What I would like to do is to take a moment and consult with the Secretary of State. I'd also like to figure out what that means on something more than a cigar box. But to put it in lubberian terms, what some people here sometimes use: the cabinet has a positive basic attitude on this point. Potentially more complicated is the suggestion that I think Mr Aartsen made, namely whether you could also postpone the moment when you have to start paying. Then you will find yourself in a situation where, in the event of a possible bankruptcy, which no one hopes for, the taxpayer will be placed in a different place in the hierarchy. Of that you can say: we find that acceptable. You can also say: we think it is logical that you should not put the taxpayer behind a bank or a house milker, for example. So this point is potentially more difficult, but I would also like to inform the Chamber about this after consultation with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u167	I see that Mr Aartsen wishes to intervene, but I would first like to know whether all the questions relating to taxation have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr President, this was the only and most important question, but the point has been raised by several speakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u169	Do you have anything else to say about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u170	I've only got the block left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u171	Then I'm going to see Mr. Aartsen. I also saw Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u172	Thank you to the Minister of Finance for showing his willingness to look at those 24 months. I speak to many entrepreneurs who say: "It will be exciting in the coming time. This package is for nine months. We're really not out of the woods in the next few days. Until July 1st, Minister Koolmees will give me the NOW. Minister Wiebes is giving me the TVL. But then Minister Hoekstra comes on 1 January to collect my tax debt." Of course, that's a variable signal. A lot of these entrepreneurs are wondering: how about that? So I would like to ask the Minister of Finance if he can look again at both measures. What is possible to ensure that we do not support entrepreneurs on the one hand and on the other hand as government slowly but surely put the noose around the neck? I think we should really look out for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u173	We did the opposite of that last one. We have said that we are offering a delay, with a considerable risk that we will not collect part of the money. We're gonna go through with that, too. At the same time, we also want, albeit in a relatively cautious way, to comply with the Plan Bureau's recommendation and to reduce packages a little bit. So I definitely want to look at both these components. But my estimate now is that it will be easier on the first part than on the second, apart from the account that might also come from that first. That is simply the result of the consultation with the Ministry in response to the questions in the first term of the Chamber. My proposal would therefore be to return to the Chamber for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u174	Finally, Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u175	I would be happy if that were considered in conjunction. Of course, they're two components. If companies are going to have to pay on 1 January, at least it would be the VVD's preference to see how you can stretch the 24 months considerably, so that companies do not get that bill at once. Companies will, of course, go bankrupt if they cannot pay the bills at the end of the month. We really have to avoid that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u176	It will almost immediately be a debate about the finger and the whole hand. It now sounds as if Mr Aartsen wants to stick to the number of months already for a number of months. I think you're seeing different moves at the same time. You see a large group of entrepreneurs who just have a lot of cash. You also see, as has just been discussed, fewer bankruptcies. There are companies that say, "I want to repay that debt to the IRS." There are also companies, which we must also be realistic about, which, somewhere in the coming period, will find that it is no longer feasible. Is that going to be 3%, 5%, 7% or 10%? Then the bill is for all creditors, including the Tax Office. I am going to try to take Mr Aartsen a big step forward, but, again, I have to make the sums. I would be in favour of looking at whether you can give entrepreneurs more time, in such a way that, in the event of bankruptcy, it is not the case that the taxpayer has always checked. We have also consciously transposed that hierarchy in the Bankruptcy Act in a certain way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u177	No one wants money from entrepreneurs to go to a bank or perhaps a pawn shopper and not to the Tax Office, while such a company still falls over. In that case, we have not helped the company at all, and that is not at all the intention of Mr Aartsen, Mr Stoffer, of myself, nor, in my opinion, of all other colleagues. With the 24-month extension, I have tested a positive basic position. That's good. I also think that if you have to pay back slower, there is less chance that you will fall over in these difficult times. Those companies are scrambled. Whether that's really costing money, I'm willing to put up a tree about it. Still, the point of starting on 1 January or 1 July. Mr Aartsen rightly said the following, but the Minister has not yet addressed it. How do you prevent the image that on February 1st a company is paying back? Nobody is questioning that you will not get a further delay while at the same time Minister Koolmees is transferring the NOW and Minister Wiebes the TVL? That feels a little bit like: the government gives with one hand and takes with the other hand in those six months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u178	I think that the main impression is that the government has been giving with both hands in recent months and is continuing to do so. So I'm not so worried that that image would come into being. The answer of the Secretary of State has always been that there is a real need to look at individual cases. I think that's wise, too. Frankly, in the past period, there have been hardly any problems in the contact between entrepreneurs and the Tax Administration, because, if I may put it this way, there has really been a human approach to: what can and how can we agree with an entrepreneur? I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg, by the way. If you make the payment term tight enough, there is a risk that you may be able to create a potential problem. You shouldn't want that. The other side is that also in the talks with the polder so far, it was not considered that this period, as we had agreed with each other until now, was unreasonable. Of course, if you're going to ask people "do you want to pay it back in a year or would you like to take twenty years for it" then most people say: well, if I have the choice, just do twenty years. It's a little bit in between.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u179	Maybe sometimes I'm a bigger Calvinist than this minister; it shouldn't get weirder. I speak a lot of entrepreneurs. They say: I have cash flow now, so I don't want to delay; I have cash flow now, so I'd like to pay back, because I'm really sorry that I still have an outstanding tax debt. No entrepreneur does that for fun. It is absolutely true that the government supports generously, but in the coming months, 1 January to 1 July, we would certainly be in the situation with this proposal that a company on the one hand receives money from the NOW and the TVL and on the other hand not only does not get tax delays but also has to pay back. That's a factually correct observation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u180	It could be. That's exactly why I said: let's take a look at the sums and let's also look at what customization is typically possible in them. I understand the problem that Mr Van Weyenberg raises here, but that, of course, depends very much on the size of the refund. I understand that in writing I will come back to that. If you, as a government, were to say 'you don't have to pay back anything in the next six months', that means for the taxpayer's place in the hierarchy of bankruptcy. I say this with caution, because it has been a long time since I studied the Bankruptcy Act. But that is, of course, a relevant fact. If that is the case and the bank and others have a preferential status, then the question is whether you should want to do so. The other side is that I do see the problem of Van Weyenberg, so let me take it with me in a letter that we try to send to the Chamber in the relatively short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u181	I will certainly come forward with a motion in the second term. I'm looking for things that are reasonable, that help and that I can explain to an entrepreneur who's scrambled up and who's looking at what's going on right now with great concern. I'm sensitive to the point that the government shouldn't be behind, while the money that goes to that entrepreneur doesn't stay in his business, but goes to another creditor. Ideally, there could already be something about this preferential position in the second term. I understand that concern, because none of us want another creditor to have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u182	I just need to see if I can do that in second term. That is perhaps a bit quick, especially with regard to the calculations at the first point. But I have heard Van Weyenberg, Aartsen and others well. I think the request for that period is reasonable in essence, so I really want to see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then I have Mr Stoffer and then Mr De Jong. Mr. Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u184	One, it's nice that the Minister moves at this point. I'm happy about that. But two, I indicated in rather firm words in the first period that for me support for this whole package is connected with moving on it. It's wonderful that people look at it and think about it, but I have to vote on Tuesday. So I would like to know where we stand before we vote on Tuesday. As far as I am concerned, let me give butter to the fish right away. That it will come on 1 January, I can live with that in the light of the argument, but those four years, those 48 months, I attach great importance to that. So I would like to have the commitment that it is before Tuesday, because that is really a very essential consideration when deciding whether or not I am going to support this package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u185	That's how I understood the first term. There are, of course, all kinds of things that contribute to my positive basic attitude, but Mr Stoffer's first term has also played a role in this. Can I put it that way? So let us deal with these two points. I would ask Mr Stoffer to look very carefully at the government's argument regarding the number of years. Because of course there comes a moment to the refund that you have to ask yourself: is that reasonable? Four years is of course also a very long term. So I'd like to take some space to look at it. I would like to move to Mr Stoffer, and I think the request is really logical at its heart, but I would like to avoid getting too much into the discussion that Mr Bruins has mentioned, namely the one about the zombie companies, where we are mainly presented with the bill at the end of the song in our long-suffering and good intentions. I know Mr Stoffer, and indeed his group chairman, as a regular pointer. This must therefore be done in a reasonable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u186	Maybe I didn't listen very carefully, but that answer comes before Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u187	Sure. I think Mr Stoffer has listened very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u188	Yeah, I guess so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u189	That answer comes before Tuesday. It will deal with both points. I thank him for his understanding of the bankruptcy aspect of the case. I'm going to look seriously at that deadline, but I'm also asking for some leniency from him, should it be so that the government comes up with a good justification why it should be something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u190	Mr. Stoffer, you also want to know what time the letter is sent to the Chamber on Tuesday? No? It's okay. Mr. De Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u191	It's funny, though. For half an hour there has been talk of a PVV proposal, because that is what it is. During the General Political Reviews it was Geert Wilders who made this proposal: make sure that these entrepreneurs do not have to pay off until 1 July and do so for four years. That is why I am so curious about what has changed in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u192	I myself had not immediately come to the conclusion that Mr Stoffer is more politically effective than the chairman of the PVV group, but if Mr Mulder is to point that out, then I should reconsider that. What I think is wise to do is just look at the argumentation. This point is raised by several groups and it is also supported. Then I think it's obvious to look at that as well. So I would like to thank Mr Mulder for his statement. positive posture...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u193	Mr. de Jong.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u194	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I think I did that twice in a row.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u195	I'm not looking for some kind of political game. I am not concerned at all about whether one is politically more effective than the other. I am concerned that this proposal was in the Chamber a week ago and that the Minister did nothing about it in the meantime. Can the minister here tonight just promise he'll do that? Certainly also in the light of, for example, loans, guarantees and so on, towards Brussels, our money is so that Italy, France and other countries can do their things. Those countries can sometimes take years to pay back, if they already repay it. So from that background, it shouldn't be a discussion at all that we have that extra space? It is not ten years, nor 20 years, as the Minister has just suggested. No, it's four years. Why doesn't this minister just say so tonight? Because it's something that a lot of entrepreneurs could give a lot of air.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u196	On that first point. If the PVV has the impression that it came first with this and has sparked this discussion, then the cabinet will want to admit it. To be honest, I don't care if a good idea comes from one or the other; it's about whether it's a good and sensible idea. I very much agree with Mr De Jong. I find the comparison with the treatment of countries with reimbursement schemes in the European Union complicated. After all, an entrepreneur is something different from a Member State, and there are other types of agreements on the basis. From his political point of view, therefore, I understand that comparison, but let us look here at what is reasonable for entrepreneurs. Maybe he'd like to look at what the cabinet's coming up with. I would hope that Mr De Jong would allow me to postpone until Tuesday, the deadline I have just agreed with Mr Stoffer. I hope he agrees with the letter, the way we write it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u197	First of all, of course, I fully agree with Mr Stoffer and Mr De Jong. I also said in my own contribution that it should be longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u198	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u199	I also understand the issue of the date of entry into force and of competing and preferential creditors. That is all well and good, but I know Mr Hoekstra as a civilised minister. Then it bothers me a bit that he says: it is about the Tax Office or else it might fall into the hands of house milkers. I think that's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u200	That wasn't personal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u201	And he didn't mention a name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u202	No, I'm not here to defend myself, either, but there are 800,000 SMEs who have settled their pensions by being a landlord. I'd appreciate it if we could just name these people here with the title "renter." This prevents them from being shaved in the same way with those shadowy people, that very small percentage that really has shady situations and breaks the law. No, that's not about me at all. That's just about the 800,000 landlords. They're just people, they're companies, and they deserve a better description.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u203	Let me also say here... Mr De Jong rightly pointed out this to me, but Mr Van Haga is right: he also mentioned this in his term. He therefore also deserves appreciation for achieving a point in which there is simply a substantive logic. I just agree with him. It wasn't economical not to mention him in the first round. But if you're not careful, you're going to list all the groups that have come up with a good idea. But here's the deal. The second point: it is a bit in the category "beauty is in the eye of the bearer." I did not want to say anything ugly about one of the two categories with either "house milkers" or "banks." I wanted to distinguish myself from categories other than taxpayers. And there is just one reason why bankruptcy law also protects taxpayers' interests. If Mr Van Haga were to say that he attaches very much to that term "rentor," I would try to take it as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u204	I appreciate that. Mr Van Weyenberg was just talking about pawnshops. It is funny, however, that the discussion here is mainly conducted by people who have been civil servants, minister's assistant or something like that. They're here and they have an ABP pension. They forget that those SMEs, who work hard and are now affected by this kind of thing, have to take care of their pensions themselves. They do so very often through investments, for example in real estate...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u205	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u206	... or, for example, on a savings account. You can't just put them away as "a pawnshop" or "a house milker." Anyway, we agree on that. I actually came forward now because I asked a question about the consequences of the lack of payment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u207	I think I gave the compliments for the good idea. I think we've also come together on the second part. That's the third question I put in the bin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u208	Okay, I'll come back later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u209	I'm kind of sorry about what just happened. We're in the middle of a housing crisis. There are incredibly many people who can't find an affordable home. In my view, the cabinet is doing far too little about that. We finally have a finance minister who says: there are house milkers, people who rent far too high on the backs of ordinary people, of tenants. And now those words are taken back because Mr. Van Haga finds them annoying. Isn't that a bit of a shame?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u210	Mr Smeulders will recognize from me that I am trying to set up as much tent as possible and also to gather as many people as possible in that tent with regard to this bill. I therefore hope for his presence. I also hope that Mr Van Haga will be present. I do not think, in my words, that there was at least a disqualifying remark, either in the direction of the banks or in the direction of what we call the budding communist opinio landlords. I only wanted to distinguish between one category on the one hand and the taxpayer on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u211	I understand that distinction, but we're talking about this bill now. In my view, the cabinet is not yet entirely sure of support for the housing budget either. Then it is very hopeful that we have a finance minister who says that there are house milkers, who also have an extensive hand to the left of the opposition and who says that we are going to deal with those house milkers. When we say the first time we talk about it, "Well, maybe they're not house milkers," that's just a bit of a shame. Keep up the good work, Minister, and don't worry too much about Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u212	I very much appreciate that Mr Smeulders is also trying to organise his support for this problem and for this budget in this debate. I'm quite open to that. What I agree with him, I think, is that something Mr Van Haga acknowledges is that it seems logical to refer to that category as landlords. I agree with Mr Smeulders that there is a distinction between those who behave nicely and less neatly. I do not entirely rule out the fact that the views of the Green Left Group on this matter are quite different from those of the cabinet. Can I put it that way? Mr. Chairman. I can't believe it, but I ended up in the bin of varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u213	I think you're doing very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u214	This is making me all red, Mr. Chairman. Let me start with a few justified questions from Mrs Van Brenk about the BIK. She asked for social equality. That is an important subject. She asked about sustainable economy: also an important issue, in all kinds of dossiers. She also asked about alternatives. Maybe it's good to say a few words about it and then make a few procedural arrangements. The idea behind this Job-related Investment Discount has really been to make sure, in addition to the substantial investments the government makes, that private investment is done more than you might otherwise expect. The thought behind that was that this would help the economy. You actually want employers to do that. Next, the question is: how do you do this in a smart, effective and forward-looking way? That's not so easy at all. I would like to promise her that we will address these points explicitly in the letter which the Secretary of State for Finance, possibly together with the Minister for Economic Affairs, will send by 5 October at the latest. I see her nodding. I would very much like to respond to her comments in this way. Mr. Chairman. Mr De Jong asked why the cabinet did not move to a reduced VAT rate of 0%. I think he has said this before, and I think I have heard Mr Wilders say it before. The question is, of course, always what is the most effective instrument in a crisis. How are you going to use those resources at a time when money is by definition scarce, as smartly as possible? Our appreciation is that there are more effective things to do, for example something like the BIK or the whole arrangement we are discussing today. This is more effective than temporarily bringing the VAT rate to 0%. We know that we are supported by the IMF, the Planning Office, the Commission and the PBL. Mr Van Haga asked about a legally rather complex issue. He asked what the legal consequences of payment powerlessness were. I think I have understood him in such a way that he refers to a request for a postponement of payment, that a notification of payment power should be made and that this could have undesirable consequences towards the bank as a financier. I see him nodding. Look, a request for delay of payment is automatically considered by the Tax Administration as a notification of payment powerlessness. So you don't have to report this separately. If we continue to talk about its legal consequences and how banks and accountants deal with them and what may still exist with other reporting obligations, then we are going to deal with a fairly technical, legal aspect that also belongs to the Minister for Legal Protection. If I have understood his question correctly, I would like to agree with him that we should return to it in writing. I'm going to ask the Secretary of Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u215	This is indeed a rather complicated dossier. There are a lot more hooks and eyes on it than we can negotiate right now, I think. I would therefore very much appreciate it if a letter were to be sent about this and perhaps then we will talk about it afterwards. In any case, I would like to ask whether it is possible to include a great deal of coulance. At the moment when payment is requested to be deferred and thus automatically ineffective, there are legal consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u216	Yes. I'll admit the first one anyway. Let me look at my colleague in the Legal Affairs Committee to see if he will honour that commitment. I will put that second question to him as well. However, for the sake of fairness, I must say to Mr Van Haga that I simply cannot see whether it is technically possible, what you are talking about and whether we consider it politically desirable, but I will ensure that this is addressed in the letter. Mr. Chairman. I have one question left. It is about the recovery fund, the fund that we agreed on in Europe and on which the Heads of Government agreed in July of this year. I have understood the question as: to what extent can this fund be used for the problems that lie ahead here today? The core of the deal made by the Prime Minister is money if you reform. Then there is not every reform, but the reforms that have previously been in the so-called CSRs, the country-specific recommendations, the country-specific recommendations, the country-specific recommendations. Only if you meet that requirement can you then claim that money as well. What's that about? These recommendations differ from country to country, but for the Netherlands, for example, they include flex jobs, the tax system and mortgage interest relief, as well as a number of other issues related to economic reform, such as debt and equity. I see some people instantly jumping up enthusiastically and I see others thinking: those were things we didn't really want. I am not saying that it is all politically simple, but these are the kind of recommendations that the Commission makes to each of the Member States. Part of the money is also available to the Netherlands, but you can only use it if you address the problems of the CSRs of the past few years. It is therefore not possible, in our opinion, for this package of aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u217	But with Prinsjesdag a number of measures have been announced that are well in line with the CSRs for the Netherlands. If, in the coming months, or at least in the 2021 financial year, the cabinet starts to do so, can the European Recovery Fund still be used for the effects that the corona crisis has made visible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u218	Then I misunderstood Mr Bruins. That question is in my head in the 'Financial Reviews' box, because you are talking about the budget. Mr Bruins is absolutely right when you look at the Tax Plan and the budget. There are a few elements in it that you might argue are appropriate to some of the CSRs that the Commission has laid down for the Netherlands, namely flex jobs and foreign versus equity. So there's potential to come up with a story for that. Whether the Commission then honours that is, of course, step two. That's what you should be negotiating about. I meant to say that for the package as the three of us present it today on behalf of the cabinet, it really does not make any sense. Now I understand Mr Bruins better and he is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u219	That's good to hear. The follow-up question then is whether the European recovery fund's money can be used for matters such as extra learning places and extra internships, so that we can get our workforce off to a good start and keep working.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u220	It's great to see that we're starting to think about the money we're probably going to get and whether we can invest it. That is a figure of style that I recognize more widely in politics. I think it would be wise to wait for the Commission to shape before we spend the money we might get on things that we ourselves consider important. The Commission is now in the process. I also see the interview with Mrs von der Leyen last week on how to shape it and how the money will return to the Member States, but I understand that Mr Bruins already has ideas. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u221	Thank you. Then we've reached the second term of office, but before we start, I'd like to suspend for five minutes. Then we go to the second term. Yes, you'll all get extra points!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u222	We will continue with the debate on the third aid package for companies and employees. We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u223	Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a job guarantee can ensure that people with income retention work towards a new job;]] [[calls on the Government to provide workers in need with the assurance that they are entitled to appropriate guidance to new work and income;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the NOW grant conditions that supported companies should contribute to guidance to new work, make sufficient funds available for this purpose and provide a sanction for employers who prove not to comply with this condition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of corona infections is rising rapidly;]] [[Whereas this could have a major impact on public health, the economy and the number of jobs;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the extent to which this is still desirable before the aid is phased out in January 2021 and to inform the Court in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that you should be able to stop working more quickly with a heavy occupation;]] [[noting that young people can get to work in this way earlier;]] [[calls on the Government to make available the money to stop working earlier as soon as possible, releasing an additional 100 million in 2021 to ensure that more people can make use of it in this time of crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that young people deserve to be able to work and learn;]] [[noting that young people are now taking much of the blows of this crisis;]] [[calls on the government to give more perspective to young people with a broad offensive, including:]] [[increase in traineeships and apprenticeships;]] [[a learning offer for young people sitting at home;]] [[giving young people a place at the table and letting them decide on their future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-109]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-110]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-111]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u225	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u226	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are very concerned about the situation in the labour market, especially now that the cabinet intends to reduce the arrangements in the short term. I'm talking about the NOW, the scheme for the companies. I'm talking about the Tozo, which an increasingly large group of people can't claim. I have tabled two amendments. The first is about the dismissal penalty in conjunction with the duty to guide people from work to work. The second concerns the deletion of the partner test in the Tozo, the self-employed scheme. In addition, I would like to table the next motion because, from the outset, and still, I find it very strange and unfair that students cannot claim the Tozo scheme if they are self-employed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that students had to deal with a company during the corona crisis with a fall in income;]] [[noting that the Participation Act now prevents students from claiming the Tozo;]] [[considers it irrational to treat entrepreneurs differently because they happen to be registered with a higher education institution;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the Tozo to students with an enterprise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kent and Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u227	I think it's a unique thing in this Chamber, but the motion has been co-tabled on behalf of Coalition-Y. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u228	The latter cannot be done, because Coalition-Y is not in the Chamber, but the motion has therefore been tabled on behalf of Mr Futselaar. Thank you. You're gonna have to turn in your moves. I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u229	Mr. Chairman. I welcome the Minister's commitment that by the end of the year, perhaps even with budgetary treatment, he will have a concrete plan of action to guide people from work to work. So that's good. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to recent figures, no less than 10% of the detected corona contamination can be traced back to the work situation;]] [[Whereas all aid and recovery packages are discarded if at the same time contaminations in the work situation are not consistently contained;]] [[calls on the Government to give high priority to the prevention of contamination in the work situation, for example by consulting employers' organisations, consistently addressing inspection reports of coronainsecure work situations and considering whether home work can be made a right,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-114]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u230	I found it disappointing that corporate social responsibility could not be given as a demand. It's an important thing, and I'm sorry about that. But we fundamentally disagree with the early austerity of the regulations. We really think it's too early, we're worried about that. You understand that voting against can't be because that would be disastrous, but I think it's important to send out this signal. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u231	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Aartsen has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u232	Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas safety and health must always be at the forefront of action and no concessions can be made;]] [[Whereas technology and science provide good new insights on how to act in a safe and coronaproof way;]] [[Whereas, where appropriate, it is possible to regulate measures more intelligently, thereby having at least the same dampening effect on the epidemic, but leading economically or socially to less collateral damage;]] [[Whereas a field lab has already been established for the safe organisation of events in order to gather and apply more knowledge in the field of risk management of events;]] [[calls on the government, together with several industry organisations, to take the initiative to launch large-scale field labs, following the example of the field lab, where concepts can be tested in scientific ways so that they can be rolled out in the economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen and Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-115]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u233	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the third aid and recovery package, the Cabinet provides additional resources for regional labour markets for retraining, retraining and guidance to new work;]] [[Whereas there are different training schemes and there is a risk that (small) employers and individuals do not know where to go for these schemes and appropriate training;]] [[Whereas the success of the "NL learns through" window demonstrates the importance of a one-stop shop for the accessibility of the schemes;]] [[calls on the government to create one identifiable point of contact for each region for guidance to new work and training, while ensuring, if necessary, support for referral to the instruments of NL by,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen and Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u234	Mr President, thank you very much. The next motion is to give businessmen air and not to feel the hot breath of the Tax Administration on their necks in the next few months. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to start the repayment scheme of tax deferral six months later, from 1 July 2021, and to double its maturity to 48 months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members De Jong and Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u235	Mr. Chairman. We have also tabled an amendment to reverse the austerities in the NOW and the Tozo. In the Tozo it's about the partner key and the power key. The NOW is about the austerities there are. The amendment applies only for the next quarter because of the form of this debate, but we also want it to be settled for the first quarter of 2021. During the SZW budget, we will re-table an amendment to regulate it and perhaps move on if necessary because of the second wave. So there will be another amendment. This is only for the next quarter and I hope for broad support from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u236	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the cabinet for the reply and for the constructive talks in recent weeks. I have two motions, which you may have already known they were coming. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the economic crisis is affecting young people and that they often already have a vulnerable position in the labour market;]] [[noting that the rules on assistance for young people (under 27 years of age) are stricter than for adults (over 27 years of age);]] [[believes that young people deserve at least the same level of support;]] [[Calls on the Government to open up to this group, until 1 July 2021, a number of reintegration tools which now exclude young people up to 27 years of age, namely the release of income, the exemption of voluntary allowances and the release of income from work of a single parent;]] [[calls on the Government to terminate the four-week search period for vulnerable young people until 1 July 2021, and to allow municipalities until 1 July 2021 not to apply the search period to other young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Smeulders, Mr Renkema, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Weyenberg, Mr Bruins, Mr Palland, Mr Van Kent and Mr Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u238	I think so, too. The only party, or at least an important party that is not present, is the VVD. Hence the next motion, with the VVD. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the first month for 22,000 people a development interview was registered through the NL scheme and that the maximum number of registrations was reached within one month;]] [[Whereas funds will not be available again until 2021 for retraining aid;]] [[believes that we cannot put people on hold for months who want to reorient themselves in these times of great uncertainty in the labour market;]] [[calls on the government to open up the scheme again this year and to ensure that 50 000 people are able to use it;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber in good time about the use of the scheme so that it can be adjusted if the maximum number of registrations is likely to be reached and people are excluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u239	Mr President, thank you. I have included a number of motions on young people, more room for municipalities and the field labs for entrepreneurs. I am still under Mrs Palland's motion on border entrepreneurs and Mr Bruins' motion on training. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the ministers, particularly the Minister for Social Affairs, for the fact that allzzp'ers can be helped by the municipalities, and not just those covered by Tozo 3. Thank you for that clear commitment or confirmation. I hope that when it comes to lifelong learning, the lifelong development agenda can really be used. I think that is very good and also fits in with the work done by others and Mrs Hammer. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. The first one is about zoos. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has released 39 million for aid to zoos;]] [[Whereas zoos have been affected by the corona crisis;]] [[considers that it is essential, in particular for the welfare of animals and the breeding and expansion programmes of endangered species, but also for the various other functions of zoos, that zoos are adequately supported;]] [[calls on the Government, in discussions with zoos on the aid measure, to pay attention to the maintenance of these programmes;]] [[invites the Government also to inform the Chamber of the results,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Weyenberg, De Groot and Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-122]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u240	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, during the corona crisis, entrepreneurs were given the opportunity to postpone their tax obligations;]] [[noting that this will ever have to be repaid and that a payment arrangement is required for this;]] [[Whereas an excessive repayment obligation leads to problems for entrepreneurs, unnecessary bankruptcies and damage to economic recovery;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the maximum repayment scheme to 36 months where possible and to provide tailor-made solutions where possible;]] [[invites the government also to offer entrepreneurs the standard opportunity to start paying back by 1 July at the latest, and to engage generously with companies for which early repayment leads to economic problems,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u241	Mr. Chairman. I heard the Minister of Finance very well. I'm gonna use the time to think about it in the next few days. I hope to hear something about bankruptcy law for the weekend in a letter, because we have to vote on Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u242	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u243	Mr. Chairman. I'll shorten my motions to the operative part. I will add the recitals later. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to monitor regularly how the influx and financial situation of SW companies and social entrepreneurs develops in the coming months and to assess in good time whether this relates to the funds reserved for SW companies and social entrepreneurs in the third support package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to present, in the short term, concrete proposals for a personal learning and development budget for all workers, including the proposal of the MBO Council, VH and VSNU, and to consider whether and how the funds from the European Recovery Fund can be used for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-124]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u244	My last two motions are inspired by Coalition-Y. Not co-submitted, but inspired by it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people are hit hardest on the labour market by the corona crisis;]] [[whereas the Cabinet has an approach against youth unemployment;]] [[Whereas social service is a place where young people discover talents, develop skills and get to know new people and organisations;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, how social service can contribute to reducing youth unemployment and to inform the Court of Justice before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u245	To close the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people are hardest hit on the labour market by the corona crisis and that there is a shortage of placements;]] [[Whereas the government itself can set a good example by providing additional placements and start-ups for young people;]] [[calls on the government to draw up a strategy to increase internship, trainee and start-up places for young people in the coming period, taking into account the role of the national government and co-governments as employers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Smeulders, Mr Asscher and Mr Smals. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u246	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the Ministers for the many answers I have received to my questions. There were even a few where I thought: what question did I ask again? Thank you very much, though. To use the words of Minister Hoekstra: I understand that the cabinet is setting up as large a tent as possible to get as many political parties as possible. The SGP wants to be in that tent, but then two shaving lines have to be added, so that it is solid. The first shaving line concerns the letter on the reimbursement of deferred taxes, which is due on Monday. Oh, I hear this is coming Tuesday morning. I thought I'd bring him up a little bit, but he's sharp, Mr. Chairman. The second shaving line I have entered in a motion and it reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several specific groups of companies and sectors, such as the coach industry, ferry services, tent rental companies and other suppliers in the event sector, travel intermediaries and other companies in the travel sector, and seasonal companies suffer high turnover losses, but, for example, due to incorrect SBI codes or relatively high fixed charges, the existing aid schemes are not sufficient;]] [[calls on the Government to remain in dialogue with the relevant sector organisations and to consider possible solutions to avoid unnecessary bankruptcies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Stoffer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-129]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u247	Thank you, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas part-time WW may be an appropriate tool for enabling, at the core, healthy companies to avoid redundancies and to maintain the company's knowledge and talent when faced with a severe demand loss and significant turnover losses, such as in an economic crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to start preparing (a variant of) part-time WW and to ensure that this instrument is ready as soon as possible after the end of the current support measures, such as the NOW, and periodically inform the Court of progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopping areas with a high level of retail trade have been hard hit by the corona crisis;]] [[Considering that in the corona crisis, many retailing in villages and cities has been affected by the absence of tourists or the increase in online shopping;]] [[Whereas emptiness in many shopping areas has been a problem for many years and is expected to worsen further as a result of the corona crisis;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has earmarked EUR 100 million for the restructuring of business sites and shopping areas;]] [[calls on the government to put forward a proposal to use these resources in consultation with municipalities, with the aim that municipalities can effectively combat emptying, together with other stakeholders, and to maintain the quality of life in villages and cities, for example through the Retail Agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are border entrepreneurs who are not eligible for a Tozo benefit in the Netherlands or for a comparable benefit in Belgium or Germany and who fall between shore and ship;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is in talks with the European Commission on this subject, but that a solution has not yet been found;]] [[Whereas this is unsatisfactory;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts for border entrepreneurs, to monitor their situation and to report to the Chamber every quarter until at least 1 January 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Tielen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-130]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-131]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Palland, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35420-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u248	Thanks and strength to the cabinet and the supporting staff and implementation organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u249	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. It asks how many motions have been tabled; that is 23. Then I'll suspend for ten minutes until all the motions are copied.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u250	I give the floor to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u251	Thank you, Madam President. First a correction on something I said in the first term, namely that the scheme NOW 3.0 is being sent. Next week a letter will be sent about the NOW 3.0, so before 1 October it is clear what the NOW 3.0 will look like. The arrangement will come later, because we are still working on it. That was one actual correction. Two further questions remain from Mr Van Kent's first term on the power test in the Tozo. Is that a wash nose? No. It could be a very long story, but the available money test concerns the resources available or reasonably available to the applicant. Then there comes a whole definition of what is then covered. If the assets are built up on a regular savings account, then the bank balance counts in the check on the available funds. The same applies to the money in a deposit account. One time limit is used, mostly at the time of the intended starting date of the benefit. In a way, Mr Van Kent is right that you can bypass it, but that actually applies to all the power tests we have. That moment is motivated by implementing technical considerations: you need to set a moment to determine how much money is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u252	Very briefly, Mr. Van Kent.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u253	So in other words, if an entrepreneur pays off the mortgage the day before he makes the application or pays into a pension product, then this asset test has no effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u254	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u255	Wouldn't it be convenient to waive this power key?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u256	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u257	... because in that sense it's a weird arrangement or a weird condition?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u258	No, because the assets are then either reserved for a pension allowance or used to redeem a mortgage. In the first case, you will no longer be able to get it in the short term and in the second case, you will no longer be able to get it. So no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u259	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u260	Mr Van Kent also asked if students had access to the Tozo scheme. I have already referred to previous debates on this, because we have discussed this very often, including at the Tozo 2. It requires adaptation of the Participation Act and the Tozo. Mr Bruins asked for this too. It is therefore an appropriate provision. It is a matter of principle and really of a different order than an adjustment to the four-week search period, something that Mr Smeulders has asked for. This has to do with the fact that the situation of students is fundamentally different from that of entrepreneurs, who, as a result of the corona crisis, see their income completely or partially disappear. For students, there is still an income. But perhaps the plans of many political parties for the elections provide for even more income than is currently the case! So that is the provision for students who have really been put out of business in the Participation Act. That is the recital and it is therefore more fundamental. If you really think otherwise, then you are also thinking of a fundamental change to the Participation Act, and that is not what the Cabinet intends to do in the short term. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The first motion is Mr Asscher's motion on item No. 109 on the working guarantee. I would like to make three comments on this. I understand the concerns very well and also the considerations that were raised last week. There are actually three parts to this motion, and I would like to respond separately. The first part is to ensure that workers are entitled to appropriate guidance in the search for new work and income. That is a good point, and rightly so, and I wrote it in last night's letter drawing up Mr Asscher's motion last week. That is why a great deal of money has been made available for the accompanying social package. We also want to give it body and translate it into regulations, training tools and that sort of thing. Of course, there is always the point: within the budgetary framework we have. That's what I wrote in the letter. The second point that goes with this is something that Mr Asscher said in his first term, namely that we cannot give job guarantees. Unemployment is rising in the coming period and we can only do our best to help as many people as possible from one job to another in order to prevent them from entering benefits. But there's no way to give a real job guarantee. That is what Mr Asscher himself said, and that is not the purpose of it either. I also agree with the second part of Mr Asscher's request that an employer who wishes to make use of the aid should be asked to make an effort to assist workers from work to work. I also agree that this should be included in the grant conditions. So I agree with this, too. I have already said that I am sympathetic to the third part. That is the penalty. It is a sympathetic idea to link this obligation with a sanction for employers who prove not to comply with the obligation to make efforts to accompany workers from work to work. I'm gonna work that out, and I'm gonna send that effect along with that letter I just promised about NOW 3.0. I really need to get in touch with the UWV about whether this is feasible and proportionate. In other words, how can you shape it proportionally within the grant conditions? Mr President, a long story, but against this background: Court judgment. Then the motion to part No. 111 of Asscher and Smeulders about stopping working earlier. The motion calls on the government to make the money available as soon as possible in order to stop working earlier, thereby releasing an additional 100 million in 2021 to ensure that more people can make use of it in this crisis time. I'm just gonna ask you a question to check something out. I interpret the motion in such a way that of the amount of 1 billion that we released from the pension agreement for 2021-2024, 100 million will be drawn from later years to 2021, so that it becomes available earlier. That is my interpretation of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u261	How Mr Koolmees finances that extra 100 million, I am happy to leave it with him. In 2021, elections are still held, and everything is being looked at. What matters to me now is that in the crisis we can get people to stop working sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u262	For the sake of completeness, we have 1 billion for 2021 to 2024, 250 million per year. In times of crisis, as at present, the urgency is greater. I understand that point. Then I bring out from 2024 100 million, to 2021, making that extra available in 2021. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 112 by Mr Asscher, Mr Smeulders, Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Bruins on a broad offensive. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 113 by Van Kent and Futselaar over the Tozo. I refer to Bruins' questions just now and I must advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 114 by Mrs Van Brenk on flexible working. I have a request to make to Mrs Van Brenk, whether she wishes to hold this motion. And why? The review of the Work Flexible Act is now in progress and will be available this autumn, so soon. The law has only been in force for a few years and in that evaluation we can take this with us. I hear her from the benches "when?" Screaming. This fall. That's really fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u263	Mrs. Van Brenk is still thinking. Was Mrs. Van Brenk not allowed to hold the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u264	Then I'll have to formally discourage the motion, but I don't want to, which is why I'm kindly asking her to arrest her. Then I'll take it with me in the evaluation. The motion in part No. 116 by Mr Van Aartsen and Mrs Tielen on one point of contact. Judgment Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u265	Archs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u266	Archen, I'm sorry, Chairman. The fancy variant again. Judge Room, then. The motion in part No. 118, signed by Smeulders, Renkema, Asscher, Van Weyenberg, Bruins, Palland, Van Kent and Van Brenn. I think Judgement Room. The motion in part No. 119 by Mr Smeulders and Mrs Tielen on the additional development opinions and the opening-up on 1 December. Judgment Room. Then there is the Bruins/Palland motion in part No. 124 on the sw company. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 125 by Mr Bruins and Mr Van Weyenberg on the personal learning and development budget: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. Parliament adopted a resolution on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations: Bull. The motion in part No. 128, Bruins, Smeulders, Asscher and...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u267	Narrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u268	Narrow. Strategy for more internship, trainee and start-up places for young people. Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 130 by Mrs Palland and Mr Tielen on part-time work. That's a good idea. It is right that the motion requires this before the end of the NOW, because until then UWV really has no capacity and no room for that. So thank you for the coulance and taking into account the situation in which the UWV is located. I would like to make two comments. The first applies to the implementation organisation. The second is that the part-time WW is not the only option. Other forms are also possible to cope with cyclical shocks, such as the calamities regime. We also take them into account in the same effect. So against that background, judge Room. Then the motion to part No. 132 from Palland, Van Weyenberg and Bruins on border workers. We are discussing with the European Commission whether the Tozo falls within the scope of Regulation 883, my favourite regulation. If I can read the motion in such a way that we are in contact with the neighbouring countries, the border municipalities, the Chamber of Commerce and the Border Information Points on this group of self-employed persons, and report periodically on the results of these contacts to your Chamber, I would like to give her a ruling Chamber. Those were all my motions, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u269	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u270	Then I'll start with the motion in part No. 115 by Mr Aartsen, the chic branch. That's about something I've tasted we're both very excited about. It's about investigating coronaproof ways of working, in this case about the field labs. I give them judgment Chamber, but I give two beckons in which Mr Aartsen, I think, could recognize himself very well. We're not gonna help a sector against its will, so it might be useful if they come forward, otherwise we're in the wrong place. It must also become a real sector, because EZK is not a company and of course does not know enough about it at that level. With those beckons, judge Room. Then we have the motion in part no. 120 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Baudet. I'd advise against it. And why? Because I would not want Mr Van Haga to shoot in his own foot, because a pure methodology has been chosen. We base it on the reference turnover of the same period in 2019. If you were to do this so generically, it would be an advantage for the companies that just got through the peak. That's right. But you have a proportionate disadvantage for the companies that are looking forward to the peak from now on in the year: the Christmas tree entrepreneur, the Christmas market, and so on. So that's ball-ball, where in a week we'll all have angry entrepreneurs with a different peak. The cabinet has decided to help these two sectors in a different way. I'll report on that. This motion I must advise against. Then there is the wonderful initiative to broaden the scope to the animal kingdom, the motion zoos. I've already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u271	What number is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u272	That's the motion in part No. 122. That's a good initiative. It is also supported by the Minister of LNV. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. Mr Stoffer has drawn attention to the fact that, in his view, there is not enough intensive dialogue between the cabinet and some sectors. It invites the government to remain in dialogue with the organisations concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u273	That's the motion in part No. 129.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u274	That's the motion in part No. 129. I think it is extremely useful that the cabinet should remain in dialogue with these sectors. This is instructive and useful, also for the cabinet. I'll leave the motion to the Court's judgment. I will make sure that the most appropriate ruler conducts those talks. I would like to add that all three repetitions are from the debate, which he has heard before, but I repeat here that I do not want to raise any financial expectations here. I also include the hibernation arrangements we have just discussed. In the recitals Mr Stoffer made a tidal wave of custom suggestions. I'll say that this type of customization is unrealistic in advance. I have to tell you the truth. But I've embraced the operative part, and that's why this motion gets judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 131 of Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland deal with the emptying of shopping areas and the use of restructuring funds. I'll leave that to the Court's judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u275	Thank you. I now turn to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u276	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna handle four more motions. The motion in part No. Mr Asscher's 110 was on a point that we also discussed in the debate, namely a moment of calibration. The request is also to inform the Court of Justice of this. I'd like to give that motion a Chamber of Judgement, because I think it's wise. We have also mentioned this in the debate; other parties have also mentioned it. I would like to add, however, that I think it was clear from the debate that the adjustment is very obvious in the case of a force major, but not in the case of smaller fluctuations in the situation. I think that is exactly how Mr Asscher intended it. The motions on the documents Nos. 117 and 121 and 123 respectively of the PVV, member Van Haga and member D66 cum suis are in fact all three in the field of taxation. This point has been made by a large number of parties, by the coalition parties, but also by Mr De Jong, Mr Van Haga and, in my view, a number of others. I repeat, in particular to Mr Stoffer, that the letter will be before the group meetings by Tuesday morning at the latest. That's my angle. I shall, of course, comment on the verdict on the motions. I'll do that along three lines. The first is: what is the substantive desirability and appreciation of the cabinet when it comes to the period? Is that the current period? Is that 12 months more? Is that 24 months more? The second point will be about bankruptcy law. My appreciation for this is that I have understood the Chamber in such a way: it is obvious that taxpayers should not lag behind when what I have just said about the order of precedence is indeed so. That is the point we will find out and also point out in the letter that the Secretary of State and I will send. The third point that I will take into account is the possible financial consequences, because they could, of course, have an impact on the appreciation of the first point in particular. I shall therefore come back to those three things well before the vote, so that it can also be weighed in the various groups. Mr President, for the sake of completeness, this applies to the motions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u277	.......................................................................... 117, 121 and 123.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u278	Exactly. Then I've finished my second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u279	Thank you. That concludes this debate. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, the Members of Parliament and the people in the public gallery.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-24-tweedekamer-8.u280	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
