ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u1	The Minister is in our midst for a VSO following a written consultation on the sponsor agreement 2020-2022. This VSO was requested by Mrs Westerveld of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. But you don't want the floor? Okay. You are the first speaker on my list, but I will go to Mr Heerema of the VVD, who would like to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. I have one motion in response to the coverage of the sponsor agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at present the sponsor agreement does not impose any restrictions on sponsorship from non-free countries or agencies from non-free countries;]] [[believes that influences from non-free countries should stay far away from Dutch education and that it is important to impose restrictions on this within the sponsor agreement;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the sponsor agreement to include a ban on sponsorship from non-free countries or agencies from non-free countries and to join the definition of "unfree country" in the Freedom in the World report of the American organisation Freedom House, which refers to countries that reject our core values or freedoms, such as religious freedom, freedom of expression and freedom of association,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-227]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Heerema will not be surprised that I put this question to him. It is a way of putting that question to the cabinet through him. I think we share the aim, but my group does wonder whether it is wise to make you dependent on an American government-funded non-profit institution for your own definition of what is or is not a free country. I do not think that is the main thrust of Mr Heerema's motion, but I would like the Minister's appreciation of the motion to consider how he sees it in practice. After all, when we make ourselves dependent on the definition of American non-profit organisations, we can also make ourselves vulnerable to changing definitions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u4	This can easily be done by putting the word "for example," in the request, but it is important to me that we do not stick to what is "unfree." But I think we all know which way we want to go. Several parties in this Chamber are also working on this. The President of this plenary has recently had a Presidency in that too. So I think we should see how we can take a step in this. This is the first course I've set. I am also curious about the Minister's response to your question. I hope we can get a little further in that together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u5	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. The next speaker on my list is Mr Kwint of the Socialist Party. I'll give him the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The fight against the sneaking market forces in education sometimes goes with very large and sometimes very small steps. Without wanting to fail my own proposal, I think this is a small step, but one that needs to be taken. We see that there is an incredible growth of private tutoring, tutoring by private institutions. To our great annoyance we also see that they just advertise in schools themselves. What would be a better opportunity to submit something about this when a sponsor agreement is being discussed, also on behalf of GroenLinks? The proposal reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that not all pupils can benefit from paid supplementary education;]] [[Whereas the Court has previously decided to limit the presence of private institutions for supplementary education in schools;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude private supplementary education institutions from the possibility of sponsoring schools in the sponsoring agreement and thus to limit their presence in schools even further,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-228]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr. Chairman. I wrote along. So I guess I'll figure it out. This VAO was requested by Mr Van Raan. I understand he's in quarantine at home. I'm sure he'll be watching, because this is really his favorite subject. So, through you, I salute him, and I would like to say something very briefly through you. This has been a written consultation. I did not promise Mr Van Raan a number of things in that, because he wanted a lot of bans on this subject. That cannot be all of it, but I have promised him that we will add to the checklist that the schools will receive next month, in October, that, if there is sponsorship, schools should assess the message on desirability. This means that schools are always asked to look at the content of what it is about and whether it is desirable. The choice is, of course, up to the schools; that is also the relationship that we have with each other in the responsibilities. Mr Van Raan would have liked to go further in this direction, but the schools are also forced to look at this in terms of content. Then there is Mr Heerema's motion on extending the sponsorship agreement with a ban on sponsorship from non-free countries. I would like to begin with three comments. First of all, the sponsor agreement is not entirely owned by OCW or the national government. No, we're one of the parties. In addition, there are the councils, the unions, the students, LAKS and AVS, but also the SME Netherlands, VNO-NCW, the Group Educational Publishing and then I forget a few more. The sponsor's agreement is theirs. So if you want to change something, you can bring it in, but then the others have to agree to it. That's one. So I cannot add this unilaterally to the sponsor's agreement, if I wanted to. The second point is that the President knows from a different role; in my opinion, the full title is: the parliamentary interrogation committee has unwanted influence from non-free countries. I'm telling you honestly, I've been looking into that for a while. Not only from there do we know that foreign influence is really a broad and very complicated issue. Rather, the Council of State has specifically indicated that banning funding of organisations from certain countries is to a large extent contrary to the right of association. So there's a tension field there. The third is that Mr Kwint has added another question, through Mr Heerema and through the President, in my direction: there is indeed no objective list of non-free countries. For example, the list of Freedom House is seen as political by our Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I would like to make three comments, and if I may understand the motion in this way, I am prepared to discuss with the covenant parties how a provision can be included in the covenant which points to the possible risks of foreign financing and asks schools to carefully consider the desirability of financing from abroad. And that provision would be additional to the provision already included in the sponsor agreement, which, of course, you have already seen, which indicates that schools should make known the source of funding, which makes it clear whether schools receive sponsorship from abroad. So that's already in the covenant. So, if I may understand the motion in that way, with these three comments, I'm giving her judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u8	I see the motion's motion's consenting nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u9	Then Mr Kwint's motion...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u10	There is, after all, a short question from Mr Kwint on Mr Heerema's motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u11	Just formal. If we are finally going to vote on this motion, then the explanation given by the Minister is very far from the operative part of Mr Heerema. So I would suggest that he might, for example, take out the reference to Freedom House. Or add very explicitly "for example," because how the Minister explains it now is really different from how the motion was tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u12	But, Mr. Kwint, that's for your own consideration, of course. With this explanation, the Minister has given the motion judgment Chamber. And I note that Mr Heerema has nodded that in agreement, and that is the interpretation of the motion. But Mr Heerema asks for the floor, and he gets it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u13	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Let me think about whether I can make the request even more strict, also to make it clear before the vote. I myself ask for this from other parties, so I think it is nice if I do so myself. I have to read back exactly what the Minister said, because if it does come so far away from what I mean, then we still have a dispute. But I think we can find each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u14	I think I have really joined the operative part of this motion, because this motion is asking to see if a provision can be included in the sponsor's agreement. I just indicated that I'm not the only party. This is not our exclusive, but we are one of the parties. But, of course, we, as well as all the other parties, have the opportunity to bring in any wishes that are still there; that is one. The second is that it is quite complicated what you can do there, even from the limits that exist, including in legislation and regulations, around this subject. In addition, there will also be a debate here in the Chamber on the report of the committee I have mentioned, led by Mr Rog. There is even a need for a cabinet response to this. In short, we are working on this subject in many ways, but I am prepared to bring it to the other parties. And if you make it 'for example' around the Freedom House because I have indeed made a comment, then I think Mr Kwint is also satisfied and perhaps you have his voice inside. But that's gonna have to prove it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u15	I note that the motion, with this interpretation, has been given a Chamber of Appeal, and that the motion may be amended. And if that would change the appreciation of the Cabinet, I assume the Minister will let the Chamber know by e-mail. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u16	Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). I would like to mention, for example, the extra lessons; they are paid for supplementary education. Just before the corona crisis broke out in February, we talked about this. Then you filed motions which have been adopted and which we are now carrying out. And that also includes the fact that we would be talking to the VO Council and the schools that are behind it, because this is particularly happening in secondary education, which is why we are going to discourage this, and I think that is a literal passage from that motion. You have also asked us as a government to make agreements with schools, with the aim of not advertising private providers of supplementary education. Due to the corona crisis, the implementation of this motion has been somewhat delayed. But right now one is getting over it, which is actually going to go further than what we are doing now, on the basis of your motion. I find that a little complicated. So I would actually ask Mr Kwint to hold on to his motion for a resolution. I'm going to try to update you on these conversations as soon as possible, because it's been worked on, just not at the rate we thought we could do that in February. Then you can decide whether you think that goes far enough or whether you want to put another head on top of it. Around that time, in the same way as I have just said to Mr Heerema, a wish can always be submitted to the sponsor's agreement to see if it can also be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u17	Let me see if Mr Kwint is prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think, for a moment, I must say that we had a VAO here on 19 February, following a very nice general discussion on shadow education, as we often call it, and the undesirableness of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u19	Two proposals were adopted at the time. One is about facilitating and discouraging private tutoring in the school. The other is about advertising. Frankly, I do understand that at this time, although it is very important, this has not always been the first concern to be discussed with secondary schools. So I think we're gonna hold the motion. Then we'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u20	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u21	Then we have come to the end of the VSO Sponsor Covenant, which has been requested by Mr Lammert van Raan of the Party for Animals. That is what I have now become, unlike the list of speakers. I wish him well from this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-8.u22	Voting time on the motions tabled will be next week.
