ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u1	I call Mrs Postma of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u2	Mr. Chairman. I wanted to talk about vacation. There is no people in the world who go on holiday as much as the Dutch. Countries such as France, Italy, Spain and Germany are often popular during the summer holidays. Also in this summer many Dutch will go on holiday by car. All countries have taken corona measures for the destination. Only, I can't find any good information about the car journey itself. It is as if we expect to be able to skip the long traffic jams at the service stations in France, Luxembourg, Belgium and Germany. It's like being teleported to the holiday destination. That's not true. If we're all back in that traffic jam on black Saturday or other busy travel days, we'll find overcrowded gas stations and toilets that you'd like to stay away from. And with corona, these places become an ideal corona transfer station or fireplace, with the risk that next to beautiful holiday memories a second corona wave will be taken to the Netherlands. Mr President, a warned person counts for two and a good preparation is half the work; hence this motion on car travel and holidays. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many Dutch people travel by car to their holiday destination abroad, with little advice and information on how to make the car trip to your holiday destination as coronaproof as possible;]] [[Whereas coronaproof travelling by car abroad requires additional preparation, as there is a need to stop on the way to refuel, rest and eat;]] [[Whereas many people are going on holiday by car and will be very busy at resting places and service stations;]] [[calls on the government to encourage car holiday Member States to ensure extra good hygiene measures during the busy summer months in care places (including petrol stations along highways) as well as to work with organisations such as the ANWB to provide good information and advice on how the Dutch holidaymaker can best prepare himself for holidays by car abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Postma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-819]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u3	I wonder if this is something for the government or more for the ANWB, or for people themselves. Be wise, go on a journey wisely and just bring your breadbox.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u4	I've been thinking about this, too. How would I do this if I went on vacation with my family by car abroad? There is very little information at the moment. I also went to find out how to find that information. These organisations indicate: we simply do not have this. I have also asked my European colleagues: "Goh, is this already known? How's the trip going?" I see a lot of preparation about air travel and about what to do in the country itself, but I hardly see anything about the car journey. I don't think we should be naive about that when we think about how many people always go on vacation. On average, 1.2 million people go to France every summer, 1 million to Spain and 900,000 to Italy. That is not going to be as many as usual this year, but if you have those big traffic flows in mind and you still think about black Saturday, which will probably be less crowded than last year, but still busy, then you have to realize that we can be better prepared for this. And you can't do that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u5	Thank you. Then the floor is to... Oh, Mr Van Aalst also has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u6	I'm gonna try to put it in the Transport Council's office anyway. What exactly does Mrs. Postma want? We have a week to go here and I think the first part of the Netherlands already goes on holiday. How does Mrs. Postma see that? Do we have to ask the Minister to issue a flyer with all European countries in the short term? How am I supposed to see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u7	On the agenda of the Transport Council are the measures taken by country to be able to go on holiday and to open the country up to tourists. The Dutch like to go to a number of countries and there are also a number of transit countries. All it takes is to get in touch with a country and ask: "Oh, what are the measures? Are you well prepared and have you also taken extra measures?" Right now, I just don't see anything. I read in the Transport Council's report that a great deal is being looked at the preparations for air traffic, but I do not see this coming back. In that sense, I would like to do an incentive to see what we can do here to prepare that journey as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u8	Finally, Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u9	On the one hand, I understand that. On the other hand, my advice would be: let's just support our local entrepreneurs in the Netherlands this year; that seems to me to be the safest thing at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u10	I couldn't agree more. There is nothing more beautiful than going on holiday in the Netherlands. I'm going to Zandvoort myself this year and I'm really excited about that. But we also have to be realistic, because people often book their holidays in January. Some book their holidays even in September, after they have returned. They do that because the high season is pricey. The people who have already booked a holiday in Italy or in France will not get their money back. They don't have the money to book a vacation home here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u11	Those were good lyrics by Mrs De Pater-Postma, but I'm still looking for a little bit of integrality in the story of the CDA. Last week, your colleague Van Dam mentioned in a debate that he was known as the "Vakantieman" within his group, because he made an appeal not to go on holiday within Europe, but to go exclusively on holiday to Curaçao, Aruba and Saint Martin. Would you mind bringing these two stories together for a moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u12	I had no idea that we in the CDA Group had a Holiday Guy in our midst, but here we are. Like I said, there's a difference between what you want and what reality is. A lot of people have already booked their holidays. A lot of people need a vacation. So I expect a lot of people to just get in that car and go to their holiday destination. That is the reality we are dealing with. On that basis, I want the cabinet to see how it can ensure that the equipment is optimal, because I think we all want to avoid having a second wave of corona here in September next to beautiful holiday memories.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u13	I would like to ask you a few questions, because I do not think that this is an answer to the question I have asked. Mr Van Dam has really asked Secretary of State Keijzer, in her capacity as Secretary of State for Tourism, to ensure that Dutch people go on holiday as much as possible to the Kingdom counterparts who are now partly dependent on our support. His call was real: try not to let people go to France, but to Curaçao.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u14	I don't know exactly what kind of appeal he made, but they're beautiful countries, so I can imagine that might be a nice option if you haven't booked a holiday yet. But many people booked their holidays in January or September last year. I'm real at that. They have made a down payment and they would like to make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u15	Thank you. I call Mr Remco Dijkstra of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You do hope that they will also polish the gas pumps and the like on the way to France as you go on holiday. I thought it was an interesting discussion just now, but I really don't think it's a job for the government to point it out to people. I don't want government in my back seat when I drive south. You can also stay beautifully in the Netherlands. Everyone has their own responsibility and let us keep it that way. I remember going to France myself, with a trailer, and I was in the back of the beetle. My mother would have brought one of those boxes with six of those hard-boiled eggs, the inside of which had turned out all blue. That was quite an experience. Back then we didn't have a corona, but we knew very well how to get there, also with a beetle. I think people can figure that out for themselves now. They really don't need a government for that. What the government is needed for is... and that is what this Transport Council is also about... is logistics. A lot of goods also cross the border, whether it's cava or cheeses or other fresh products. They must be able to continue to drive across Europe as quickly as possible. Those green lanes that are set up, those green lanes that you as a truck driver can just drive on without all the formalities at the border, are therefore a very good thing. But I'm curious if that's also permanent and if it doesn't collapse when there's another outbreak somewhere and a country locks up. What can the Minister say about that? How do we continue to monitor this at European level? How do we ensure that the free movement of goods, especially with lorries, continues? That is what I think this is all about, and I am curious about it, even for this summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u17	Thank you. Mrs Kröger van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u18	Mr. Chairman. Two aviation-related topics for me today. Firstly, there is the weakening of climate measures for aviation, which is currently under way. The aviation lobby wants to adjust the reference year for CORSIA and the Netherlands seems to have implicitly agreed to this, while we as the Chamber have repeatedly indicated our desire to be involved in the decision-making process around CORSIA. Before the end of this week, the Netherlands must indicate whether it is going to vote for or against the change in baseline. Given the great impact of and the uncertainties surrounding this change of baseline, I would like to ask the Minister to focus on postponing that decision and first submit the Dutch position to this Chamber. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas proposals to establish baseline for CORSIA at 2019 only may have a negative impact on the effectiveness of CORSIA;]] [[Whereas the ICAO Council is not empowered to unilaterally adjust this baseline; this is reserved for the Assembly;]] [[Whereas experts advise to implement CORSIA as agreed and to come forward with possible adjustment proposals at the first evaluation in 2022, after which ICAO Assembly could regularly decide on a different system;]] [[Calls on the Government to commit itself to the ICAO Council to postpone a decision on the baseline of CORSIA;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to submit its position on CORSIA to the Chamber in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Raan and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-33-820]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u19	Everyone with a little common sense was shocked by last Friday's Schiphol footage. We saw a packed departure hall. This is in no way in line with the EASA regulations, which state that social distancing should be monitored at all times, especially during check-in and boarding. We talked about this extensively last week. I would like to ask the Minister once again whether she can guarantee that this 1.5 meter will be maintained at Schiphol Airport. It is a question of money: under-staffing, creating long queues. You don't have to do this. This exceptional position of aviation undermines the support for all the corona measures in the theatre and the catering industry, where all those entrepreneurs are hit hard. That's really unacceptable. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u20	Thank you. I call Mr Paternotte of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u21	Mr President, thank you. Because I'm not usually at AO's about mobility, I like to get a little nostalgia about the car trips to the south. My contribution is, of course, about aviation, especially CORSIA. Last March, The Economist wrote that the current crisis offers a fantastic opportunity for a piece of greening. Many areas were mentioned and of course aviation too, because the idea is that a baseline will be drawn in 2019 and 2020: that is CO2 emissions and we are going to compensate for everything above that. And since 2020 will, of course, be a disappointing year for aviation, the suggestion is now being put on the table to think away for a moment. But because aviation is going to shrink for the time being, that would mean that aviation will have nothing to compensate for in the coming years and that we will not start doing anything about the CO2 emissions of aviation until about eight years from now. That is not good, because all sectors have to contribute. This is a task for us together. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to ensure at this time that the ICAO Council does not take the decision to set the baseline at 2019 and to throw it away in the coming years when it comes to climate compensation for aviation. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to ask two more questions. My first question concerns research into the operation of filter and ventilation systems in aircraft. I think it is essential that there is clear scientific evidence that people can get on a plane safely. This is important for the confidence in aviation, but it is also a signal to all those other sectors that had to take very strict measures with regard to distance that does not currently apply on the aircraft. The minister said she was going to find out when the RAGIDA investigation would be ready. Does she know when that's? We have held a motion today pending news and clarity. So I hope the Minister will be able to say something about that. Finally. Indeed, I am curious to see which glasses the Minister looked at last Friday's Schiphol footage. Schiphol is an inner space. Inner spaces with a lot of people are the places where the virus can spread, so the rows on Schiphol don't seem like the intention at all. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u22	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u23	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are a few motions and a few questions. I'm just gonna start with the motion on part number one. 819 by Mrs Postma. It calls on the government to encourage car holiday Member States to ensure extra good hygiene and to work with organisations to ensure good information. Well, just so I know, I've had a meeting with... this afternoon. Does this call for any response?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u25	No, there is some confusion with the Members of Parliament, because no motions have yet been distributed. I'll take a look at the messengers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u26	Oh, doesn't the Chamber have the motions yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u27	They're coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u28	Well, let me at least tell you that this afternoon I happened to have a meeting with the Secretary of State with a lot of the organizations involved here, including the ANWB, HISWA-RECRON, Tourist Information, actually the whole field of the tourism sector, to talk about mobility in corona time. This has not been specifically discussed, but we have agreed to work together in the field of information for people. That was not so much about foreign affairs, but I am quite willing to highlight this aspect in the interest of Dutch travellers in the club that is already looking at communication. If I may interpret the motion in this way, that judgment may give Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u29	The motion in part No. 819 gets judgment Chamber. Then we'll move on to the motion in part number. 820.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u30	Mr Dijkstra has asked questions about the green lanes. I'd better get on with the questions if you don't have all the motions. I very much agree with Mr Dijkstra that these green lanes are working well and that we must also retain them. I will therefore be happy to take this into account in the revision of the TEN-T regulation that is to come. It's scheduled for next year. The publication will probably come sometime in the spring or summer. I have already understood from the German colleague that this is also an important subject, including during the German Presidency. So I'll be happy to work it out like that. I would like to start with the questions, such as Mr Paternotte's question about the RAGIDA, the club researching the spread of viruses. I promised you at last week's AO that I would send you a letter on this matter before the summer. We're inventorying that. The first contacts have now been established. But it is still too soon now, so at the latest next week you will get the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u31	Well, I guess I'd better be sharp, Mr. Chairman. Last week we agreed that, at least next Tuesday at the latest, we would be able to have the votes put to the vote on another motion, which would lead us to investigate that we, as the Netherlands, will then initiate what we would prefer not to do, provided that RAGIDA research is completed quickly enough. All we need to know right now is what the timeline is. So I hope that you will be able to send that to us at least before next week's votes. And I'm curious why mapping a timeline is complicated, because if that's been going on for a long time, I'm a little worried about the investigation itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u32	Well, look... You're right. You indicated that you wanted to know before the votes, but I also indicated at that time that I know that they are researching viruses, but do not know whether they have specifically investigated COOVID-19. I'd check, and I'd let you know. You also indicated: if they do not and do not intend to do so, then you would like a Dutch alternative. However, we are still examining whether they are in the process of carrying out this investigation, so I cannot tell you when that investigation is finished. But we are really going to honour the commitment made to you before the vote. Then Mr Paternotte and Mrs Kröger also asked questions about enforcement at Schiphol. It is primarily up to Schiphol and the security region to maintain that. They also have knowledge of it. Of course, Schiphol has also, together, drawn up these protocols, and the security region has also indicated that they are maintaining them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u33	An interruption by Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u34	Mr. Chairman. The question then is: is there going to be maintenance? Because we had a whole debate on Thursday. In my opinion, the VVD has asked quite literally: that 1.5 meters, is it going to be maintained, in line, at check-in, at boarding, at security? And then the answer was, yes, we're gonna take care of that. Then, on Friday, things are gonna go wrong. And Schiphol says: yes, the 1.5 meters, we cannot maintain them; the people must only wear a mouth cap. Does the Minister agree with me that the 1.5 metres should simply be maintained?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u35	It has been very clearly agreed that the 1.5 meter is also maintained at Schiphol Airport, except in those places where there is no traffic, and that is when checking in, at the security filters and when boarding. That is why it is necessary to wear a mouth cap there too, so that the wearing of the mouth cap should be maintained. That is the indication that went to the security region from VWS, and that is also maintained by the military police and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u36	A short question from Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u37	But does the Minister recognise that it depends on how many personnel use Schiphol or there are long queues at security, at check-in, at boarding, so they have an influence on that? So we really have to make sure that Schiphol just pulls the wallet and doesn't sit "slim," creating incredible congestion? You can't just let this happen, can you? Surely this is unacceptable and unacceptable for all those sectors that are now in unbelievable losses because they maintain that 1.5 metres?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u38	I agree with Mrs Kröger that Schiphol cannot create situations there because of austerity that can occur in a different way. But in the end, of course, I will come back to the answer: it is the responsibility of Schiphol and the security region to maintain what we have agreed with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u39	Schiphol is being looked at incredibly critically, especially at this time. Somehow I find that very annoying for all the people who work at Schiphol Airport, who are doing their best to ensure that they can abide by the rules. But I get it, too. This has to do with what Mrs Kröger just mentioned, namely that in many places people have to abide by rules and they feel that they do not apply in some places in the Netherlands. They think of Schiphol. In March we saw the footage of the luggage tyres. All luggage to one tyre...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u40	Mr. Paternotte, your question to the minister is? Because you've just indicated what you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u41	...all luggage to one tire, causing crowds, and now back in the hallway. "Avoid crowds" is a very important adage that the government communicates. This also applies in such a large hall, where a lot of people stand in line. By spreading that, you can avoid crowds. My question is whether, as a system operator, you would like to address Schiphol and whether you can check whether Mrs Kröger's implication or suggestion is correct, namely that it is the use of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u42	Of course, Mr Paternotte and the Chamber can expect me to remind Schiphol regularly, if necessary. I've been in touch this weekend, too. Then you ask what's going on. I've also been in contact with the security region. I've been in touch with colleague Grapperhaus. Of course we do, but in the end they are responsible for that enforcement. I will certainly appeal to them, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u43	Thank you. In my view, then, there is the motion in part No. 815. Or are there any outstanding questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u44	Yeah, the motion to part No. 815. I had only gone through with the questions because I noticed that Members did not have the motions yet. This motion is by Mrs Kröger's hand. It invites the Government to commit itself to the ICAO Council to postpone a decision on the baseline of CORSIA and invites the Cabinet to submit its position on CORSIA to the Chamber in advance. Now I would like to give a ruling on the second request, Chamber, but I cannot give a ruling on the total, because we in the ICAO Council speak on behalf of seven countries and the Netherlands is the only country in the seven countries that is in favour of postponement. So we simply cannot do that, because we represent seven countries. We have indicated that, but you are not alone. You're there on behalf of the other countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u45	So the motion in part No. 815 is dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u46	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u47	Mrs Kröger, shortly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u48	It would also have been strange if the second part of the motion had been dissuaded, because there are already two adopted chamber motions that the Minister has requested before adopting an ICAO position to submit to the Chamber. Now the Minister is silently agreeing to a slackening of the climate agreements, by actually saying that this 2019 baseline can, while we can also say that we simply have to follow an orderly process, that we postpone the decision and that we then properly submit it to the Chamber. Then we also follow what the experts recommend. Why doesn't the Minister want to follow that route?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u49	Again, our efforts remain the same. That doesn't change anything. But your specific request is for a delay. We cannot do that alone, because you speak on behalf of seven countries. Those other countries do not want a delay, so I cannot comply with that request. That the Dutch commitment is aimed at the non-weakening of the stakes, you can be sure of that. It's gonna stay that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u50	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u51	What does this mean for what the Netherlands is going to vote at the end of this week? Does it agree with that weakening to the baseline of 2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u52	Then the balance will have to be what the risk is if the whole of CORSIA is to die. Then I guess you have to choose the least evil. Then you will also think "better something than nothing," I think. But that's about the choice we'll be able to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u53	It is difficult for me to see what could be the motive of countries to say that they would find even delay unacceptable, because there is still a pilot phase first. After that, a final decision must be taken. In that pilot phase, a country may decide to choose a baseline different from that of 2020. So my question is: what is the hugely serious reason why countries object to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u54	Mr Paternotte asks me, with his question, what exactly are the reasons for these individual countries to want to do so, but I am quite prepared to look at what the countries want to give away in public and see if I can put some things together for you in a note. But that's all I can offer you in this. It will not be up to us; it will be unabated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u55	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VSO Transport Council.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-32.u56	I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes. Then we'll start with the patent law.
