ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on the legislative proposal 35170, Amendment of the Police Act 2012 and the Medical Inspections Act relating to the screening of persons who wish to become or are a police officer and persons who, under agreement, are going to perform or carry out work for the police, the police detective or the Police College (screening officers of police and police externals). I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to Mrs Bezaan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u3	Okay, let's get this over with. Hood off and glasses off. Mr. Chairman. To start immediately positive, the PVV Group will agree to the present proposal to amend the Police Act and the Medical Inspections Act. Good ex ante screening is inextricably linked to the planned appointment of a police officer. Insofar as certain necessary expertise is not present within the police themselves, attracting outsiders will be necessary. They should also be screened. Mr. Chairman. Before going any further, I would like to say for the sake of completeness that by far the majority of police officers carry out their work in a manner that is well known. However, in recent years it has become clear that despite the screening, more and more police officers appear to be flat, just to use a police term. In other words, corrupt. Then it is not a question of improperly getting a license plate, but of much more serious matters, namely knowingly accepting money and then passing very sensitive police information on to criminals. This year, the police world was once again alarmed by corruption cases that became apparent when they managed to crack the very popular encrypted chat service EncroChat. It showed that policemen were also cheerful chatting with the criminals. You may wonder whether they have entered the organization as moles, or whether they have somehow become blackmailable to the police during their career. This is a horror scenario: undermining our rule of law by employees who are to help protect this rule of law. It is therefore a good thing that candidate police officers, police outsides and their immediate surroundings are screened and that they are continuously monitored in terms of integrity once they have been appointed. For example, when hiring people for sensitive and vulnerable functions, it is not necessary to look at whether this is a good reflection of society, but only to see whether the candidate is suitable and whether his neighbors are clean and immaculate. Mr President, I will conclude. The Freedom Party is appalled by the advancing identity policy, which has also become a reality within our public services. It is precisely the assessment of people on origin, ethnicity or which group they belong to, in order to create a diversely composed police force, that ensures a waning quality. The qualities of the individual are subordinated to group characteristics, which ultimately puts pressure on individual freedom. The police shouldn't be involved in this. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u4	Thank you, Mrs Bezaan. I would like to give the floor to Mr Dittrich on behalf of the D66 Group. Mrs Bezaan spoke on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u5	Mr. Chairman. This bill regulates the screening of those who want to work or already work as an official in the police force and have another function and also of the so-called police outsiders who are attracted to certain activities. A well-functioning rule of law cannot be achieved without a carefully-functioning police force. Key concepts in the legal text are "reliability" and "integrity," but these are words that cannot be included in a clear definition. Who's reliable? Who's integrity? The Chinese philosopher Lao Tse said around 600 BC: "He who is integrity does not put the emphasis on it." Perhaps the government should do so as a standard for those who want to work or already work in the police. However, it is important to take a critical look at what lies behind these words "reliable" and "integer" because the legislative proposal regulates the possibility of infringing a fundamental right of those under investigation, namely the right to privacy, as defined in Article 10 (1) of the Constitution. In order to assess whether a person is reliable and is allowed to do his or her work with the police, an investigation shall be conducted into the person and persons in his or her surroundings. How far can you go in there? What's proportional? It examines leisure activities, such as hobbies and sports, but also side activities, such as participation in boards, committees and supervisory boards. They want to gain insight into the social environment of the person concerned. Some memberships are considered a red flag, such as those of an outlaw motorcycle corridor or an extremist organization. Moreover, the Minister replied to written questions from the D66 Group, looking at the data subject's social media accounts, as well as his or her possible use of an alias on those social media. The Minister will apply an eight-year look-back period, which will take into account, inter alia, whether the person concerned has been addicted or otherwise dependent during that period. Following the opinion of the Council of State, the Minister has included in the legislative text an assessment space for the person-focused weighing of judicial backgrounds in relation to the circumstances of the case. The D66 Group can go along with this, but asks the Minister to make the assessment process as transparent as possible in the still to be made AMvBs. The right to complain for those who believe that they have been wrongly rejected must be accessible. The negative decision must be so clear that you know why you're being rejected. But now for the environmental research into the reliability of the person concerned. I have some questions about this, in particular about the provisions of Article 48s of the Police Act 2012. The environmental survey may cover the children of the person concerned, his partner, his resident parents and persons of 12 years of age or older who are relevant to their reliability due to the particular nature of the relationship between the person concerned and them. How's this going in practice? Are those who do the research and ask the questions well trained? Conversations with the persons from the applicant's surroundings can cause unrest. Is there a protocol that's being applied? From practice we have heard complaints that some questions can be perceived as intimidating. Whatever one wants to know must of course be proportionate. Suppose someone has a close contact with his or her brother. He's got a record, though. Does this mean that the applicant is rejected, because an increased risk to reliability? And then the "other person" from Article 48s (2) (b). Of course, it doesn't necessarily have to be a family member. For example, it could be a childhood girlfriend, a neighbor, a former colleague or someone from the neighborhood, someone you've been with in class. Is it true that in essence every relevant person is covered by that definition? And can the Minister indicate what type of information from or about these other persons can lead to the applicant's "unreliable" stamp? How far is one going to dig in the lives of those who provide information about that applicant? These other persons also have a right to privacy and are protected by the Constitution. Carefulness must be a guiding principle here. Mr President, I will conclude. In special cases one can enter into a conversation with the child of the person concerned of 12 years of age or older. On request, the Minister justifies the need to draw attention to the possession of knives among young people. What if a young man pulled a knife in the schoolyard? Of course, that's horrible, but is it being thrown at the father or mother who wants to work with the police? How does that count in assessing the reliability of the applicant? As far as D66 is concerned, the starting point should remain that the applicant is primarily responsible for his or her own actions and cannot be held responsible for others' actions. If the actions of others against the applicant concerned are used in the reliability investigation, the police organisation deprives someone of the opportunity to develop further and to escape the environment, the circle, the group, the neighborhood, the family from which he or she originates. He or she will then be punished, as it were, for the deeds of others. How proportional is that? Does the Minister want to reflect on this? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u6	Thank you, Mr. Dittrich. I call Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this period I am speaking not only on behalf of the PvdA, but also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. By far the most important moral anchor under all police action is its integrity. Flat cops not only undermine ongoing investigation and the safety of colleagues, they also, little by little, undermine the authority and effectiveness of the police and, as a result, the government. The rule of law cannot go without moral authority. A shocking recent example, Mrs Bezaan referred to this too, is the strong suspicion of corruption within the police after investigating part of the 23 million encrypted messages between criminals in the EncroChat investigation. Organised crime is looking for weaknesses within the police organization. The need for a sound toolbox to promote and maintain the integrity of the police is therefore not at issue in the opinion of the PvdA and GroenLinks groups. This also applies in principle to the extension of police and police screening powers, which introduces this law. Of course, within the limits of proportionality and the other limits laid down by the rule of law; an important measure. On this point, both groups still have a number of additional questions on a section that has not yet received any or little attention in the extensive examination of this law in the House of Representatives. This concerns the technique and methods of data processing. The explanatory statement states: "No (semi-) automated decision-making or profiling takes place during the reliability check, the renewed (periodic and occasional) reliability check, the continuous check and the reporting obligation. Although some of the data are obtained automatically (in the case of continuous monitoring), the assessment of the data is always carried out by a person. The assessment of each measure mentioned in this legislative proposal concerns customisation, which prevents automated decision-making." The questions of the Labour Party and GroenLinks and the Minister are as follows. How is it ensured that no (semi-) automated reliability testing or (semi-) automated profiling will take place or take place? Where was that standard laid down? Does this mean that there will be no use of logarithms or self-regulatory software? And what is meant by "data are partly obtained automatically"? Is, and if so how, excluded that, as a result of automated processes, undesirable, and possibly also invisible, indirect discrimination is taking place for the controlling person? Mr. Chairman. The use of artificial intelligence will only increase in the coming years, even exponentially. In the field of screening, too, this will undoubtedly bring progress in terms of efficiency. I myself had as an example in mind that you use facial recognition by linking police files to the faces that are recognizable on a cop's Facebook posts, but there are of course many other possibilities conceivable. Our groups are perhaps even more concerned about examples that are not yet conceivable. Are the powers created by this law, coupled with new technology, bringing the surveillance state closer for police officers? How has proportionality been secured in the near future, with rapidly moving artificial intelligence? The Personal Data Authority, which I will further refer to as "the AP," has limited competence to conduct independent investigations into the undesirable side effects of this law. Is the Minister prepared to share with the AP in advance developments in the use of artificial intelligence? For example, it can perform an independent test on proportionality in advance, or on other undesirable side effects, such as discrimination. The AP supervises the compliance and application of the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation, the Wpg and the Wjsg. Can the Minister undertake that a review as mentioned above will not be conducted or limited by this limitation of powers by the AP? Finally, can the Minister ensure that such an opinion is public, or that this will be otherwise understandable? Thank you. I look forward to the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u8	Thank you, Mr Recourt. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u9	Mr. Chairman. The Group of the Forum for Democracy naturally also attaches great importance to confidence in the police organisation. We support the legal measures to optimise this confidence. We only have a few questions about the interpretation of the proposed measures. It is obvious, of course, that confidence is undermined when a police officer is guilty of serious crimes; I refer to page 3 of the response. Our questions relate to the possibility set out in the reply in order to designate, in addition to the data already mentioned in the legislative proposal, "data relating to other personal conduct and circumstances" in an AMvB. Can the Minister give us some clarification on these behaviours? Members of political parties and trade unions are expressly permitted, state the response. She continues: "I think it is essential that no one's political preference should be sought in a democracy in the recruitment and selection of government staff." My question now is this. My question concerns being a member of a political party. The minister writes that government personnel are never asked for anyone's political preference. Rightly so, it seems to me. For people of different political preferences there should be a place in the police. This can also be supported by the principles of diversity and inclusiveness, to which the response also refers. However, we would like to qualify that membership of a political party. Shouldn't we expect the police officer not to sell him with that political conviction? A police officer, for example, who clearly advertises his political beliefs by wearing colours, symbols, badges, scarves, caps or, quite contemporaryly, mouth caps, which clearly show his affiliation with a certain political conviction, is doing something wrong, I would say. Why wrong? Because it is contrary to the rule of law ideal of the neutrality of the official service. This ideal of the neutrality of the administration also applies to the police organisation. It is one of the most important elements of the rule of law, I think, and it is therefore perfectly right that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in 1998 implemented this in the Ahmed and others case versus the United Kingdom, in which it has been made clear that the police officer should not have a political ideological colour. Now I want to take the step from politics to religion. Of course, it is hardly necessary to argue that what I have formulated here legally as an ideal for political conviction also applies to religious beliefs. We also do not want explicitly profiled Catholic, Protestant, Jewish, Buddhist or Islamic police officers, can I hope? For example, we should not have police officers praying in public. Or am I wrong about that? No police commissioners joining the eiftar. Or isn't that a problem? We shouldn't have any changes to the police uniform. What does the Minister think about this? The uniform is the word it already says a uniform. The code of conduct for police lifestyle neutrality rightly points to the undesirableness of visible expressions of belief, religion, political belief, orientation, movement, association or other forms of lifestyle that undermine the image of authority and the neutrality and security of the police function. The Minister states in the reply that he intends to determine in the AMvB what activities may pose an increased risk to the integrity of the police organisation. The only step I would like to see explicitly now is that of the integrity of the police organisation towards the religious and ideological neutrality of the police organisation. Of the examples that a police officer should not have links with extremist organizations, should not be addicted, should not have links with criminal motorcycle clubs, I would say that this is obvious. But these examples are not very challenging either. Let's focus on a few questions that you might expect society to have a little more leadership from the government. I'll give you three. 1. Does the Minister also consider the religious neutrality I have mentioned when assessing the integrity of the police organisation? I hope so, of course. It is an important point to raise, because I expect that there can be a lot of social opposition in this respect, more than in the motor clubs. 2. Does the Minister agree with us that a police officer who indicates that he wants to change that uniform for the ideological or religious reasons I have mentioned here is actually implying that he is not suitable for the police organisation, because it is not in line with the principles of the rule of law that a person should be employed by the police? 3. Does the Minister agree with me that a plea for the uniform as a uniform can play an important role in interpreting ideal diversity and inclusion? Inclusion presupposes an idea in which you want people included. We want, I think, to include people who can make the state's interest prevail over their personal ideological, political or religious profiling drive. Anyone who says that his personal religious belief or his ideological belief is much more important than the religious-neutral state makes himself unfit for the police organisation. I'd like a response from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u10	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr. Chairman. It is a good thing that I can have a debate with you here today. If I have waived a suspension, which is always somewhat common, it is partly because the subject is very important to me and I think it is important and partly because I admit that today we have a day in which, as a cabinet, and certainly as a core of four cabinet members, we are faced with important decisions. I want this to be well recorded in the Acts, because I still believe that we can have a very substantial and good discussion here. That's why I said: I'll give up that 15-minute suspension, because I don't need that. I really want to take advantage of the time we have for this exchange of views. Mr. Chairman. Your Standing Committee on Justice and Security issued the preliminary report on 24 March. Thank you for the considerations contained therein. Thank you, too, for the speed with which the proposal has been put forward by you, because this is an important legislative proposal. I just need to point out a few recent developments. As you can see, the undermining, but also the external hiring, means that we urgently need to extend the current screening tools. That is why this bill provides a basis for the use of data on addiction and dependencies. In the case of work with an increased risk, an environmental study shall be carried out. In addition to the occasional repeat investigation, a reporting obligation is introduced for relevant changes in personal circumstances. I would also like to mention continuous screening and periodic repeat investigations. Finally, a basis will be created to enable the external parties to undergo a reliability check. This proposal really solves a number of bottlenecks in the police's current reliability check. Widening the screening tools creates a future-proof and complete screening package that is necessary to identify and address risks prematurely. That does not mean that we will be able to avoid 100% integrity violations with this bill, but I do expect that this bill will make an important contribution to minimising the risk of integrity violations. In addition to its preventive effect, it is also an important investigative tool for the police. Mr. Chairman. I come to the questions and I would like to answer them with your permission as they have been asked by the Members concerned. You will excuse me if, although I address you, I may turn to the Member concerned from time to time in terms of body language and, above all, direction of eyes. Mr Dittrich had a number of important questions. First of all, how are these agencies going to implement the bill? The rules on implementation, as well as the rules on the procedure to be followed before, during and after the reliability check, shall be adopted by or by general administrative measure. They are further elaborated in a protocol reliability investigations police. That protocol will indicate how the VIK offices will implement the legislative proposal. The competent authorities are currently drawing up a uniform measuring bar setting out the assessment criteria used to determine the outcome of the reliability test. In this way, we will have a genuine uniformity, at least a unity, in the way in which this reliability test is to be carried out. A fair question is, of course, that of the proportionality of this. The member Dittrich asked how proportional it is that you will use the actions of others against her in a reliability study about a woman. Isn't it true that you are solely responsible for your own actions and not those of others? Well, the involvement of persons from the immediate vicinity of the person concerned is indeed proportionate in the work that presents an increased risk, because of the need for the integrity of the police organisation. The social environment of a person involved can put pressure on his or her behaviour. For example, the most ugly form of pressure could be blackmail or threat. That pressure could put the person in the wrong situation. This may also be due to the fact that the circumstances of that person in the social environment are such that there will be a certain amount of pressure on the police officer concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u12	I understand what the Minister is saying. Let me give you a concrete example. Suppose you grew up in a neighborhood where there's a lot of crime, where a lot of young people have slipped, but you want to get away from it, and you want to make something of your life. Then you want to join the police, and there's gonna be an environmental investigation. Assuming that the people of the VIK office will then ask questions in the area, they will see that perhaps classmates, neighbors are wrong and have ended up in crime. My question is, how does that work for the applicant? If you are going to use the actions of others against the applicant, then you can never, as it were, elevate yourself, if you come from a certain group, a certain environment or a certain neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u13	We must realise that a limited group of standards is included in that environmental research. Others can be taken into account if there are special circumstances, but two conditions must be met. One, there must be evidence that there are data on the person concerned which, because of the particular nature of the relationship between that person, for example, the youth friend from the wrong district, at least "wrong neighbourhoods" we do not have, but the somewhat wrong childhood friend we all have; read Boudewijn de Groot.. and the person concerned, the policeman, are relevant to the assessment of the involvement of the person concerned. And two, those indications that there are such data, must have been obtained on the basis of the investigation of the data subject's reliability. Before I read here that every reliability test is custom-made, I would also like to stress that it is not a question of establishing cold conditions or facts. Someone went to a school where five members of an infamous gang just happened to be sitting. I'm just gonna mention something. No, you should then go and see if there are any indications in that research that would lead to a person being involved in the environmental investigation, because of the particular nature of the relationship and because of what that wrong childhood friend has done. This is a very important study in the context of proportionality. Mr Dittrich asked and I would also like to stress that the 'other person' in Article 48s does not necessarily have to be a family member. That could be the wrong childhood friend again. But those two strict criteria that I have just mentioned must really be met. In the end, such a reliability study is tailor-made. Everything's getting involved. There is hearing and hearing and then the case is also judged by a second employee, not involved in the investigation itself. So there is a four-eye principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u14	But let's say that from this study the conclusion is that we don't want to take a risk with the applicant in terms of reliability, so we're going to reject it. The Minister has written in the written documents: that will be a decision. We agree with that. But how specific is that decision so that the person who has been rejected can object to it and appeal against it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u15	It must be a decision which meets the requirements of the general statement of reasons and which have also been used in terms of principles in the adoption of the decision. For example, I mentioned hearing again and again. We sometimes see in life that it goes wrong, that someone has not been heard of a particular decision that concerns himself, in this case such a reliability investigation. A decision which subsequently proves that the person concerned has not been heard will, of course, be null and void because of the breach of that principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u16	Mr. Dittrich, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u17	I understand that; that makes sense. I am concerned about the situation in which questions have been asked to someone from the area, not to the person concerned himself, and that information leads to the applicant being rejected. To what extent does that reason of rejection actually appear in the decision, so that the rejected person can object to it in a proper way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u18	How detailed that justification will be in a specific case will really depend on the situation. It may also be that it is not at all pleasant for a person to read explicitly in a decision about what, how and why. The most important thing is that the person concerned at least has his hearing and his hearing and that, as has been said, there is also a question of tailor-made work, with a second person also watching. It will then have to depend on the circumstances at which level details are mentioned in the Decision. Or perhaps those details are already apparent from a report of hearing and hearing. Of course, that could be very good. But again, that also depends on the privacy and personal protection of the data subject himself. I hope that this will also be an important consideration. Mr Dittrich wondered how far one would go in digging into the lives of those who provide information about the applicant. Those other persons are also entitled to their personal lives. In the immediate vicinity of the data subject, a review period of five years shall be used, in accordance with the review period used in safety investigations. Can a mother who wants to work in the police force be opposed to her kid pulling a knife in the schoolyard? Let me say first of all that environmental research is only carried out when it comes to high-risk work. If a child, a young person has been in contact with police or justice, it can affect the functioning of the parent in such a position with increased risk. But that certainly does not mean that in this circumstance there will always be a negative decision. Again, the need for tailor-made work really applies. The circumstances must be taken into account. It will therefore really depend on the circumstances of the case. I think I skipped one more question from Mr Dittrich. He also asked what type of information about those other persons could lead to the stamp "unreliable." The same information concerning the official to be examined shall in principle be examined by the other person. And then you're talking about convictions in the Justice Documentation System. And I shall come back to that customization: then, of course, it is also necessary to weigh the extent to which a certain fact, as it turns out, makes the official or the external influenceable. Mr. Chairman. Mr Recourt had a number of questions. He asked how it is guaranteed that no semi-automatic reliability testing or profiling will take place or take place. I have just said something about it: the bill states that the General Administrative Law Act applies to a decision on reliability. As a result, the competent authority must weigh up all relevant facts and circumstances and give real justification for the decision. Well, I just... Excuse me. I heard from the audience that I was too far from the microphone and I was right to do so. But that is a very important point. And then we get that the four-eye principle, which I mentioned, is laid down in that AMvB. There is a country-wide case and vision consultation. The researchers receive training and training. That is what Mr Dittrich asked for, by the way. And we're preventing conflict of interest. Then I have not even mentioned and heard again, but it is quite clear that it remains away from semi-automated reliability research, which Mr Recourt rightly fears. It's a long way from that. Mr. Chairman. What does it mean that data is partly automated? Thus, no semi-automated decision-making or profiling takes place in the reliability investigation, but if, for example, new convictions are added to the judicial documentation system, the Judicial Information Service automatically provides that information to the competent authority without carrying out a substantive assessment. Then the competent authority says: okay, we think this should lead to a reliability check or a new reliability check. So that is the automatic data provision, but I would like to stress once again that there is no semi-automatic decision-making. On the issue of discrimination, Mr Recourt asked: how can we exclude invisible, indirect discrimination? Only the changes to the legal documentation system are therefore automatically provided. Every judgment is about customization. We have established those rules by general measure of governance, so that is also objective. In addition, uniform work is being done on what is now the measuring bar. How are you going to use things as standard assessment criteria? These are so objective that the possibility of indirect discrimination should really be kept to a minimum and excluded as far as I am concerned. But it will undoubtedly be painful to find that, in a particular case that may have happened, it is an accident. Then, fortunately, there is an open objection to that decision. Because this is custom-made with motivation, after hearing again, I really think it is 99% excluded that it would be invisible, indirect discrimination. I am not going to tire you of that now, but I have given a lecture on equal treatment for many years and hiding behind inappropriate motives what is actually discrimination. I always used Jantje's old joke as an ass bridge for the students who says to Mother: "I didn't eat the cookies and they weren't very good." I see that a single member of you recognizes this extremely well, but I think that the wrong childhood friends have had; that is how I imagine it. What's with the easy donkey bridge? My experience is that, in the event of discrimination, we have the reverse burden of proof. It also applies here. If there are facts or circumstances indicating discrimination, it is therefore up to the employer, in this case the police, to prove that this is not the case. This is where the joke of Jantje comes in handy, because it is seen in case law, in case law, that the argument does not come out and that it simply shows that there is no proper justification. Mr. Chairman. As far as privacy is concerned, Mr Recourt wondered whether we would gradually go to a surveillance state. That is not the purpose of this bill. The law ensures that no more stringent screening is proposed than is strictly necessary. In the schema it is also very clear that it takes off to the functions with very high risks. Then it's the AIVD. Here we are talking about the functions with increased risks and functions with risks. There really is just a "man made" or customized assessment on the subject of reliability research; that's what I like about the story. I believe that this does justice to the privacy of the data subject, but also to the integrity of the police organisation. I have already said something about proportionality, but Mr Recourt asked another question in the light of artificial intelligence. The explanatory memorandum describes once again that there is a need to apply customisation everywhere, so that automated decision-making is not possible in any case. Then you could still get the question, of course, that is a discussion that we are now having in society or certain algorithms do not have a biased beginning somewhere, which ultimately can lead to some kind of indirect discrimination. But because we have a procedure here with hearing and hearing again, with a statement of reasons, with an objection and everything attached to it and also with a second person watching, I think that all the safeguards have been put in motion to prevent us from slipping by using an impurely adjusted algorithm. Then there was Mr Recourt's question on data processing. As described in the explanatory memorandum, the assessment requires tailor-made measures. I keep repeating that, but I am not only willing but under the General Data Protection Regulation I am even obliged to submit such a proposal for consultation to the Personal Data Authority. That is the responsibility of that authority, so the Personal Data Authority will always give an independent opinion in advance when it comes to proportionality and any unwanted side effects when it comes to artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u19	I thank the Minister for his reply. I didn't move until the whole block was finished. I assume that's the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u20	I have two more answers. Now the question is whether I can make the opinion of the Personal Data Authority public about the use of artificial intelligence. An opinion from the AP will be made public on the website of the AP itself, as an annex to the submission of the bill, and on the website of the legislative calendar. So that's always gonna go down those roads. And finally, the algorithm: is algorithms and self-learning software used? Algorithms shall be used. That is not always artificial intelligence. Only when it comes to algorithms where systems can show and develop intelligent behavior, and are designed to learn more or less independently, you talk about artificial intelligence. What is important is that there is no question of "sustainable" under this law, and I shall come back to this every time, namely the possibility of automatic decision-making, and that the transparency of decision-making will always make it possible to assess whether there is no proper justification, whether other principles have not been applied, for example, whether there is unintended but indirect discrimination. Those are the answers, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u21	Mr Recourt, a brief supplementary question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u22	I don't know if it's so short, I'm gonna do my best. The Minister puts the emphasis on customization and personal consideration, afterward. The concern I have voiced is particularly concerned about what is happening before that. This law creates powers. Now algorithms are used, but to a modest extent. Perhaps that could be quite different in the future. The question is to what extent is it now guaranteed that this law and the powers that are now being created will not be used for something we do not want later, because technology has gone so far. So is it ensured that that doesn't happen, that we keep that proportionality?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u23	Maybe I should just say it a little more explicitly. There is currently no intention to use AI applications in this context. But if that is the case, then the necessary considerations must be taken into account. The assessment that goes with each measure at that point if you did go to some sort of automated decision-making... And then I really mean for a piece; I don't mean entirely. But if at some point the technological developments are such that you are part of what is now happening completely human... Then there will be a need for a legislative change, which I would like to emphasise here. And I have already said that I am willing to submit that to the AP, but I think that the AP will smile a little and say: you are obliged to do so. So I want to make that clear here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u24	The Minister says: that means decision-making at an automated pre-stage. You can also imagine that that is not decision-making, that that artificial intelligence sees in an ingenious way, with a lot of public resources, bringing together information, and that decision-making takes place later, but that the view of how that information is brought up is no longer present with those decision-makers. And then there is no need to change the law, and then the Dutch Data Protection Authority is no longer required. So when software is used that does not see decision-making, but goes beyond what is currently the case, can the Personal Data Authority look at this in the context of proportionality and privacy protection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u25	The Personal Data Authority can always look at it. It can do so on its own initiative and also on the basis of a complaint or nomination from a person who says: a decision has been taken about me based on fully automated processes that should not have been used for that purpose. That lies simply in the competence of the Dutch Data Protection Authority. The process has been described. That research is carried out humanly, with four eyes. But, I'll give you an example, suppose you replaced the second person, the one who's watching, with a smart machine. Then we're gonna need a law change. I think it's impossible to go through all the cases here. The most important thing is that in the Dutch system, the Dutch Data Protection Authority plays a very important role in investigating, on its own initiative or on a proposal, and taking a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u26	Mr Recourt, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u27	Finally, Mr President. May I conclude, then, that the Personal Data Authority can do so at any time if it thinks there is something going on about privacy protection, discrimination or data processing, regardless of the powers in the law? Three laws have been mentioned to give an authority to the Personal Data Authority, but if it is out of the question, then the AP can still say: Minister, pay attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u28	Look, of course, the AP was also consulted in the context of this bill. That is why the legislative proposal has the form it now takes. But let me put it this way: the Personal Data Authority continues to have its own power to raise the issue at some point that something goes on when a legal authority is put into practice that is contrary to the General Data Protection Regulation. Mr. Chairman. The Commissioner has asked a number of questions that focus on police neutrality. In general terms, this is the following. The code of conduct of the police is based on neutrality in the way the police approach the citizen. That code of conduct does not allow for the expression of personal preferences or beliefs. Let me say that out loud. For the rest, I have to say that we are talking today about the law screening police officers. I am certainly prepared to go further on this subject, but, apart from what I have just said, it is somewhat separate from the legislative proposal, with yours and Mr Cliteurs taking it. Mr President, that was my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u29	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u30	We now have the second term on the part of the Chamber. I inform Members that in the event of a motion, you must read the text yourself and then you can put it on the table to your right. The guardian of the chamber will then collect and distribute the motion after your contribution. I give the floor to Mr Recourt on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers. We are regulating and normalizing new developments with old instruments. In this case, I refer to artificial intelligence. For example, this does not quite fit in with the powers of the Personal Data Authority, which is much more concerned with privacy protection, but artificial intelligence is broader and goes on. I think I understood the Minister correctly that he says that the Dutch Data Protection Authority can call the bell, even if it is something outside of her old-fashioned mission, but fits within the scope of whether the use of artificial intelligent is appropriate and proportionate to the law. If, in the second term, the Minister would like to confirm that I see that correctly, at least within those old instruments that we must use, we still have a means of controlling and normalising the future a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u32	Thank you, Mr Recourt. Then I give the floor to Mr Cliteur on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Chairman. The Minister's answer went very quickly and perhaps I missed something essential. That is why I am asking for some clarification. I'm actually trying to seduce the minister into a more general reflection on the integrity of the police department. It would help if we could draw some broad lines. The first part of the exchange of views was much about crime. That seems obvious to me too. At the moment when a potential police officer has ties with criminal organizations, that seems clear to me. But I have tried to raise something else, namely something that has nothing to do with crime but with deeply rooted ideological and political beliefs. My question was how to deal with that. I have put particular emphasis on religious beliefs. I have here, for example, a message from May 2020 about a NOS-reportage showing that police officers and firefighters are not taking them into account in uniform at the Amsterdam Blue Mosque. Is that something this new law is going to put an end to? I hope so, of course, but I'd love to hear it from the Minister. I have a little hope that I can tempt him to do that, because in 2017 he was the moment when the cabinet wasn't really in the process of saying that agents who come into contact with the public, for example, shouldn't wear religious signs, shouldn't wear headsets, and that that should be maintained. I would actually like to know whether this is still the case in 2020 and whether this law relates to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Mr. Cliteur. Minister, are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. I shall then give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u35	Mr. Chairman. On the first point, of the Recourt member: yes, the Personal Data Authority is always competent to do so. So the answer is yes. Secondly, Mr Cliteur's point: I indicated in the first term that this law is not about religious or other expressions. I referred to the code of conduct. I am certainly prepared to discuss this further in another context, if you will. We have also thought of the debate on the rule of law every year. That could be the subject of discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u36	Biennial.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u37	Uh, yeah...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u38	Once every two years, that's what it means.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u39	I heard from the audience that it is biennial, that is once every two years. I don't know yet, but at least I'm always willing to talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u40	Thank you, Minister. Are you at the end of your speech with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u41	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-eerstekamer-8.u42	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on this bill? That is not the case.
