ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge, on behalf of GroenLinks, for his question on the sexual exploitation of children online during the coronal lockdowns. And I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic, the corona crisis, not only brings out the best, but also the worst in people. Online sexual abuse of children increased enormously. Europol splashed through the dark web, and what they have encountered is literally sickening. An example. A man who's been watching underage children on livestreams for hours says, "What a time to be alive!" Because since all these kids aren't at school right now, this pedosexual could abuse them. Horrible. I have the following questions to the Minister. First of all, I know that this minister is very motivated to tackle child pornography. Previously, he also said that he wants to address, address and put lax ICT companies, who do not immediately take child pornography offline, on a list of lax companies. My question to the Minister is: what is the situation with this intention? How many companies are on that list by now? How many companies have been contacted by now? And wouldn't it also be an idea to talk to the big tech companies, including the social media platforms, to come up with a covenant on preventing online child abuse? Because these social media platforms also have a responsibility to take on. Can the Minister indicate how big, or I'm afraid how small, the prosecution rate is? How often are people reported, how often are perpetrators prosecuted and how many cases remain on the shelf? Mr. Chairman. My third question. Online sexual child abuse does not stop at national borders. Last year, this minister, together with his colleagues from other European countries, agreed to deal with child pornography. My specific question now is: does this Europol investigation lead to a tightening up of these measures? What else can be done, and what role will this minister play in this? Finally, my final question is about helping victims. There are innovative aid organisations that, for example, can provide help to victims via anonymous chat functions, i.e. anonymously. But they often lack structural funding and run the risk of not being able to help enough people. My question to this Minister is: what is he going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr President, yes... It is also a good thing, first of all, that we agree on this issue here, now, in oral Question Time, because it is difficult to get child abuse on the agenda online; it is getting a bit, as an expert taught me... They're turning over the newspaper page, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But it is our world. And that is why it is good that these questions are asked, because no matter how terrible it is, the picture is that there is actually an increase in this type of serious crime from the start of the corona crisis. When we started the measures around mid-March, I immediately asked the EOKM for a previous online campaign of Stop it Now! re-launch so that people with paedophile feelings can be led to that helpline. We managed to launch this on 2 April. A lot has been clicked on the banners and they have received many more chats and phone calls. In addition, the police are and will continue to work between all reports to search for up-to-date material and new victims, so that the perpetrators can be caught and the victims can be helped. I will be coming to your Chamber very soon, even before the summer recess, with the current figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u5	So next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u6	Yes. I'm slowly losing count myself when my recess is about to begin, but it might as well be. Mr. Chairman, for a moment. When I started as a minister, I had to find that from 2012 to 2017 alone the reports had increased from 3,500 to 18,000. Last September we were on 50,000 notifications about 2018 alone. That shows how gruesome this increases on the open web, but also on the dark web. This also means that, no matter how much we use additional detective teams on this, there is, in the end, an enormous amount more than can be prosecuted at the moment. There are 17 companies registered. I have also said this in public recently: there is an hourglass that ends on 1 September. Or it's empty, I have to say technically. That means we're going to name and sham those hosters and providers who still facilitate this. We're already seeing the first changes in behavior. There are already companies that think: I do not want to be associated outside. But we're not there yet, so on 1 September we're really gonna say out loud which companies will continue to facilitate this. We are also talking to the tech companies about prevention. We already have a public-private partnership with that, but it must continue. For that reason, this is an immediate answer to your questions. I received a lot of ramblings from the European Commission last year. It was not something that was at the top of the agenda in Europe either, let me put it this way. But in the meantime, the Presidency has asked the Commission to draw up an action plan at European level. On 9 June, I spoke to the European Parliament with Commissioner Johansson. The Commission will present a further action plan on 22 July. My final point is: we have to do this together with other countries, because even if a lot of traffic runs through the Netherlands, embarrassingly enough, we cannot fight this on our own, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u7	Let me say first of all that I appreciate the Minister's commitment on this point. I also see that he is fighting to tackle this problem. At the same time, we also see that child pornography is increasing. That was already the case for corona. The lockdowns have further increased, according to the Europol report. It is therefore a good thing that we have a European action plan. That is a good thing, but I would like to go one step further. I also challenge the Minister to go one step further: call on the European Commission to engage with the major tech companies in making agreements on prevention. For an action plan is good, but ultimately they must also take responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u8	Last October, on 8 October, I addressed the tech companies in the context of the Presidency in Luxembourg. As a result, this action plan will come into being. The tech companies are gradually starting to think our way. I admit it's a bit shaky. I think that's unfortunate enough. By the way, the very large tech companies à la Google and Microsoft are very willing to cooperate, but there's a category below that still finds it difficult to consider the issue of privacy and you name it. You'll have the letter before the summer. I hope that when the recess is over, we can really have another big talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u9	That is an important point. After all, there are a number of large tech companies that are trying to cooperate, but we also see that there are social media platforms that are indeed very reluctant. They say "this is not our responsibility," while we also know that experts tell us that those perpetrators of sexual online violence among minors first groom on those social media platforms. So they're looking for potential victims. It is therefore essential that the Instagrams and the TikToks of this world are all involved. I urge the Minister to put this on the agenda and to take care of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u10	It is worse, so I fully support Mr Van den Berge in that regard. There are social media platforms through which you can exchange child pornography, with all the data on it. It's just kids being dealt with. Those are just the same platforms where we share our holiday snapshots and the like. So we're definitely talking to the companies behind those platforms about that. That's gonna take a while. But I am very positive about the European Commission's action plan, because, once again, we must do so at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u11	Finally, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u12	Then I'll move on to the next point. I think I have 53 seconds left, don't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u13	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u14	Then I'll go on to the next point. Yes, I have several questions. The Minister indicated that he would come forward with a letter before the summer on the number of declarations, on the number of cases and on how many cases are resolved. My question to the Minister is: could he also include the current bottlenecks in the police and justice sector? Police and justice indicate that they are currently lacking capacity to detect and prosecute proactively. Could he possibly involve that in that letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u15	There has been a great deal of investment in this kind of detectives and teams in recent years; I have also invited your permanent chamber committee to talk to such a team for an afternoon. That's all going very well. The point is that the development of the free internet and everything around it, to some extent, has given rise to a very big task. That certainly applies to the dark web. There's no way around that. But we'll still bet on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u16	You have 23 seconds, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. At this point, however, I should like to say a few words. The Minister states that much has been done. That is true, but we also see that the police and the judiciary themselves, as a police spokesperson recently did in the Dutch daily, have too little capacity to detect proactively. I would therefore urge the Minister to identify precisely where the bottlenecks are and what we can do about them, and to include them in the letter before the summer recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u18	That letter will certainly cover that. I already did that in a recent letter to you. However, I will deal with the current state of affairs and I will indicate where there are some specific problems, as Mr Van den Berge calls them. But once again, they are mainly at the point of the mer à boire.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u19	You have one more second.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u20	I'll give it to you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u21	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u22	It is true that the Minister appreciates the way in which he is at the top of this problem. He is prepared to do so and has shown this on several occasions. We're very happy about that. We also agree with the Minister when he says: "This is something you can't do alone, as the Netherlands. This requires a European partnership. We have a European Action Plan." But that does not prevent the Netherlands from jumping out in a negative way when it comes to this whole problem. This means that there is an additional responsibility for the Netherlands. The minister says it's a mer à boire. Yeah, that means extra men.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u23	The question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u24	The question is, in line with Mr Van den Berge's last questions, what does the Minister need to actually take steps in this area and to be able to do more meaningfully than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u25	It's not necessarily in extra people. It is also about technology and its development. I would like to explain this again to Mr Benschop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u26	Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u27	Bishop, excuse me. How long was the recess? I would therefore like to explain this to Mr Bishop. We are, of course, dealing with criminals who are increasingly sophisticated with all kinds of darkweb. For that you need so-called webcrawlers that you have to develop again. They're actually some kind of digital beasts that search the digital web. In addition, you need techniques that make sure that you recognize, store and no longer make available everything there is material and so on. Those are constantly by developing techniques. That is the most important thing we are committed to. That is why I am very happy with the fact that the University of Delft has helped us to set up such a monitor that we can see exactly which providers go wrong. 'Cause let's start with these companies. I kind of see it as the people who allow illegal prostitution in their premises. They're just as good as the providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u28	Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u29	I went to the police once myself to look at all those images, photos and videos looking for child pornography. I have a lot of respect for the cops who do that. Many interesting questions have already been asked, but I have one more question about prevention. As part of social media, children, young people, often place photos in which sexting eventually also often plays a role. I know the police have a kiddie porn team that also teaches at school. My question to the Minister is whether he wants to take more care of that project and make an effort to see if we can make use of it in many more schools, because I think prevention is very important in this regard too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u30	It is always very boring when I say that I think this is a very good idea, but I am saying it now, because I do think that raising children but also raising parents is very important. When I was just Minister, I visited Pretty Woman in Utrecht on the occasion of oral questions by Mrs Kuik. I was mainly taught how few parents know about what's going on in children and where they end up. So I'm gonna take over that idea and come back to it in the letter I'm gonna send you before the long-awaited recess. Then I'll include a paragraph on how to do that with the parents. Maybe MPs can take them to those briefing sessions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u31	First of all, I would like to express the greatest possible respect and also appreciation for the Minister in taking the lead in the fight against child pornography. The companies are increasingly feeling the hot breath in the neck, but I still have a question. In September, in response to our questions, the Minister will mention names and numbers of companies looking the other way and not doing enough against child pornography on the server space they rent out. How is the minister going to deal with companies that continue to look the other way, knowingly and knowingly? He has announced something for that, but what timetable does he have in mind? And do they include powers such as a lick-on-piece fine in respect of companies that are seriously culpably negligent in tackling child pornography on their servers?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u32	Mr President, very quickly, because I see that there is little time. We first have a preliminary phase in which we offer the hosters the HashCheckService, so they can run their entire server to scan it for child pornography. They can then remove it and remove the companies that brought it out of their customer base. If this does not happen, then, as far as I am concerned, there is a so-called administrative approach, which means that administrative penalties can be imposed immediately. This should have the effect of stopping immediately. I would just like to say quite honestly that there is often such a lucrative business that taking-and-shaming and boycotting these companies remain, in my opinion, matters that we could be much more committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u33	Then I will go to Mr Azarkan and then to Mrs Van der Graaf of the Christian Union. Mrs Kuik and Mr Van den Berge also want to speak afterwards, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u34	It has just been recalled: last year the Internet Watch Foundation indicated that the Netherlands is unfortunately truly world champion in hosting child pornography. The D.A. stated that it is rather complicated to address parties hosting, because they cannot always be held responsible for the content placed by users. What successes has the Minister achieved in this respect over the past year? Is it not the case that half of them, but perhaps only a quarter of them go through the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u35	No, we cannot say that the share going through the Netherlands has already fallen substantially at the moment. You can say at most that the relative share is falling, but that is because some other countries such as France are now suffering more from it. So I would like to stress that you are already seeing a waterbed effect here. The fact that we are now trying to use sticks on the Internet, if I may put it that way, and we are already going to other countries. Concrete successes are mainly seen in the form of hosters who have decided to stop doing so in recent times. Large tech companies and smaller tech companies have been willing to take this HashCheckServer from us and work with the EOKM to clean up their servers. But I keep saying it: I think we are going to be fighting this for a very long time, because the bad guys are always finding new technologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u36	Last week we heard that the webcrawler had been deployed zero times. So I can only express the hope that this webcrawler will be used as soon as possible to detect online abuse. We must do everything we can to prevent child abuse. That also means doing everything we can to prevent people from going wrong. The helpline Stop it Now! helps with that. It is good that this campaign has now started again. Earlier this year, the Chamber broadly supported a motion from me to improve the accessibility of this helpline, to prevent people who are about to go wrong...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u37	And the question is, Mrs. Van der Graaf?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u38	What happened to it anyway? Has that accessibility been extended in hours? Did any extra people come to answer the calls? That's how we prevent people from making mistakes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u39	I can only say, as I indicated in the introduction, that after I had asked for the Stop it Now! campaign to be launched again, it turned out that there was a lot of clicks and that there are more chats and phone calls. I cannot give you precise figures yet, but it seems that it has had its effect again. I also think that your Member Van der Graaf's call to get back to work has been a good one. It seems to work, too, but I can't give it exactly yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u40	I have one more question about youth aid. Innovative youth support initiatives, which, for example, use anonymous chat functions to help victims of sexual abuse, show that there is often an inappropriate funding system for youth assistance, because it is linked to individuals and therefore anonymised assistance is not possible. I would ask the Minister to make this possible in the Cabinet and, together with his colleagues from VWS and for legal protection, to look for solutions to this important problem in terms of victim protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u41	I think it is right because that is a bit behind the question decided that there are all kinds of initiatives aimed at strengthening the sexual resilience of young people. That could lead to fragmentation. That is why I started with the ministries of OCW and VWS, but also with Halt, Rutgers, Stichting School & Security and the EOKM, with a signpost sexting, including an associated expert network. We have just started, indeed, to see if we can get more together and focused in early care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u42	Was that the question, Mr. Van den Berge? No? I think it was about funding. Yes. It was about funding, I tell the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u43	The financing of this kind of activity, we have it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u44	I don't think that's gonna be him!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u45	No. Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is a question of financing anonymised aid. I'm actually just asking the Minister to make it discussable in the cabinet, not even to do it or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u46	Clear. That's the same question, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u47	We can take that into account in this initiative. I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u48	There have been very justified questions put by my colleagues, and I would like to join. I have another question about the resilience and then about the role of the consultative office. When you're a parent at the consulting firm, you're asked for everything, from motor skills to the size of a pasta plate, because how much can your child weigh, eat and I don't know what. But one subject is not or hardly addressed, namely sexuality. I believe that this plays an important role in making children resilient, but also in raising parents' awareness. What's normal and what's not normal...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u49	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u50	My question is whether the consultative office will also be explicitly addressed in the Minister's plans.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u51	Before I give the right answer again, let me say that together with Rutgers and the publisher Young & Connected we have developed low-threshold educational material for children from 8 to 12. That is, of course, the age at which people are already self-employed on the Internet. Advertisements, digibord lessons and other things really bring in the online risks. That whole program has been delayed by covid, but is now starting for this year's autumn holiday, 2020. That goes through Kidsweek and Samsam, among other things. I'll get it back to my ministry. I do not know to what extent the consultancies are involved. I wouldn't know right now, but I'll tell you that in the letter. So I'll come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-23-tweedekamer-4.u52	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. Since we have held Question Time again, it has been a structural delay in terms of time. We need to think about that. Maybe we should just allow two questions. We are about to vote and I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
