ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the budget for Health, Welfare and Sport (35570-XVI). Today we have come to the answer of the cabinet. I would, of course, like to welcome the VWS Minister, the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State, as well as, of course, the spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u2	I can already see Mr Hijink, but I would like to make the proposal first of all to allow eight questions per group, just as we did yesterday. Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u3	My question is about something else, Mr President. It's a small point of order. All sorts of pieces are coming out these days, like yesterday from the Justice Department. Today all Wob pieces come out from VWS, that's what I understand. I would ask the Cabinet to send these documents to the Chamber as soon as possible and not just at the end of the debate. Then perhaps we can do something with that. I would like to add the pieces that belong to the Catshuis meetings. The Prime Minister has always said: they cannot be made public, because they have not been formal consultations. Now we see in yesterday's documents that the Catshuis consultation does indeed take a formal place in the entire decision-making structure of the cabinet at the time of this crisis. Then it seems to us that the documents accompanying it, i.e. the agendas and the reports that have been drawn up and the decisions that have probably been taken, can also be made public. I would therefore like to put that request to the cabinet. It doesn't have to be à la minute, but I can imagine that next week, when we have another debate here on the coronavirus, the documents belonging to the Catshuis disposals will also be made public.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u4	Okay, I'll look at the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u5	The documents that were made public were made public yesterday. It may well be that another set of pieces will be made public today, but that will just be made public to everyone at once. I don't have the exact time at hand right now. With regard to the Catshuis meeting, the Prime Minister responded as he responded. I have nothing to add to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u6	Okay, then I suggest you start answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u7	Yes. Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank Members for their first contribution yesterday. We have tried to answer all the questions that have been put. If it is correct, you have now received the written reply. After a number of introductory words, I would like to classify my speech as follows. I would actually like to take a number of issues out of it. Firstly, that is all that has to do with the concern for the future and the observations you have made about our system and whether we are prepared for the future that is coming. Secondly, these are the questions about care for the elderly: the future organisation of care for the elderly but also, for example, care for the nursing home and whether we have sufficient new forms of living and care. Thirdly, those are the questions about vaccination. I would now like to highlight these subjects myself. Afterwards, the Minister for Medical Care will discuss the situation in curative care now, such as the postponement of care and the scaling-up, questions about the labour market and the future of care. Next, the Secretary of State addresses prevention, ggz, social care, youth in corona time, Caribbean Netherlands and 75 years of freedom. Mr. Chairman. We're discussing the U.S.S. budget these days. Yesterday, in the first term, the Chamber spoke very nice and respectable words about the care and the people who work there. It's been a weird year for all of us. What started as an infectious disease crisis became a health care crisis. This crisis now affects all facets of society, all facets of the economy. We all feel that, but nowhere is and was the presence of that virus as palpable as in the care. Care hasn't been the same for a day. Corona was also worked incredibly hard in care, but what the people in care have done in the past year is really impressive, in the nursing homes, in the institutions for disability care, in home care, in the general practitioners, in the GGDs and in the hospitals. People had to switch quickly and be ready every time. We were always blessed with a concern that each of us could lean on at our most vulnerable moments. Especially in the past year, our people in the care, our people in the front line, where the fight against the virus was most fierce, have been our pillars of support. How much our system may have been unable to cope with this pandemic that raged the world, our concern turned out to be, precisely because of them. Care is not given by laws, it is given not by systems, but by people. That's what my aftertaste was of your contribution in the first term. I can only very much agree with that. That's what we all see when we're on work visits or when we talk to people from care. You have rightly underlined this in your contributions. Looking at the future -- that's what we're doing in this room -- of course we've got lessons to learn from the past few months. On the one hand, as many groups also underlined, including Mrs Ploumen's, you can say that the corona crisis has been a catalyst for beautiful and necessary developments in the area of digitalisation, in the area of innovation, in the area of cooperation across areas, in the area of removing unnecessary bureaucracy. At the same time, the crisis has also put the magnifying glass on the shortcomings in the way we have organised our concerns. The most worrying is that perhaps for the fragmented distribution of responsibility and the limited possibilities to conduct central management when there is scarcity, of sudden emerging scarcity as we have seen in healthcare in recent months. But that also applies, of course, to the scarce future, simply because of demographic developments. We've seen it in the capacity planning, testing and control of the GGDs. Yes, a great deal has been achieved, but often despite the system and thanks to the people who work in care. You would wish that the system would also be a little more helpful for those possibilities of directing. That brings me to the first block, to the concern for the future and the questions that have been asked about it and to the statements that have been made about it. The task of this coalition agreement was one of system changes in the tent. There were a lot of assignments in the coalition agreement, but no major changes to the system, because when this cabinet started, we had just come up with a number of very substantial changes in the system, which were the cause of concern. Of course, care had to be improved on many themes, and we have also started to do so. But we will not escape any changes to the system for another cabinet period. However large or small, we will have to take a number of steps in this direction, because, as Mrs Dik-Faber said it, there are a number of points where it is already squeaking and cracking. And that, of course, has a lot to do with the demographic development that is coming towards us. While the staff in care, the labour market does not automatically become much wider, we will see a doubling of the number of 80-plussers and also a change in the age groups in society, which will make the relationship between those who care and those who are cared for really different. So accessibility, affordability and quality are always the three pillars on which every healthcare system is based and on which healthcare systems are also internationally compared. I think we can say to each other that if we need care, we are very happy that we live in the Netherlands because it is precisely on those three pillars, namely accessibility, affordability and quality, on average, also in comparison, that things are going well. We also know that this is not a quiet property and that this will come under pressure if we do nothing. So that means that we all have the task of making choices in it. And you presented that beautifully yesterday in all the reports I received. There was a single leftover from Kees van der Staaij's bookcase, but for the rest it was all heavy and heavy reports, one even more bulky than the other, with all real choices for the future; in election programs we will do all that. It is taking too long to deal with them all now, but I would like to say a few things about it. In all the choices that are being presented, I think we all want to be able to take more direction on those issues where necessary. One could say: as the scarcity increases, the need to be able to direct from the government is greater. And that is said in all sorts of keys. The second thing you really see coming back into all the speeches and pieces is the theme of innovation and the really different organisation of care, because that has to give the space to organise care as well as possible with a doubling of the number of 80-plussers at the same time. A third theme is how we can organise care across the domains. I see this in all the themes and designs of looking towards the future. I think we also agree that it is not just about what needs to be changed in terms of legislation or systems, but also about what we can do now. This was the subject of questions from GroenLinks, the Christian Union and the CDA, among others. Namely: couldn't you, for example, from the Wlz already offer much more space to do that working together across domains? In short, you don't have to wait for the future to come. There's more you can do now. Part of it is, of course, because it fits within the system. Part of it is because we have to change the system on a number of points. I started some experiments in Ede, in Hollandscheveld and in Dongen. That was also mentioned last night. In anticipation of the evaluation, I see that this form of collaboration works and helps in the lives of clients. We all want laws not to get in our way, but to help us. There is one element in the legislation that really stands in the way of us, and that is that in the Wlz it is only allowed to provide that care to clients who are actually indicated. That means you can't make a preventive contribution from the Wlz where you might want to. Well, we have to make that possible, and we're going to make that possible. A consultation process has started and that will at least lead to a letter that I will send you for Christmas. I would like to inform you of the outcome of this consultation. I simply want to continue this legislative process. The current experiments can continue, but I would also like to continue the legislative process and thereby give room for new instruments. Mrs Agema asked: would it not be a good idea to combine all those laws in which care for the elderly is organised? That's a little back to the old AWBZ period. Couldn't that be a good solution? I am not saying that I am necessarily opposed to this, but I think we should be careful to think that this has solved it. First of all, you will always have new demarcation issues. This does not automatically solve the problem. In addition, you should be careful not to make it appear that you can only achieve domain-crossing cooperation if the law has been amended. I don't think that's the case. It's not what Mrs. Agema says either. In any case, it would not be the fastest way to cross-domain cooperation. I would not choose it in advance as the solution to everything we need. Mr. Chairman. Finally, in this block, I would like to mention the contour note. A number of references have been made to that note. What we would have liked, of course, is that the outline note had already been in the Chamber. That was my promise in last year's budget, not knowing what crisis would rage around the world that would hold care for a year. This means that we still have to start consulting the field at the moment. We postponed that on purpose; I informed you about it as well. We have seen that the healthcare organisations are dealing with all kinds of other issues. But the result of that consultation and the contour note, which will include a number of policy options, we want to have ready, of course, before the start of the next formation. Then you have had a consultation with the field discussed to make the choices along the way to the future. We'll start that consultation in a few weeks and finish it in this cabinet period, so we'll be ready for formation. So much for this block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you to the Minister for answering some of the questions we have asked. I understand, of course, that it has been a very busy year and that everything went differently than planned and planned. That also meant a lot for what the Minister had time for. But it is also true that this Minister has made a very firm statement on the undesirable aspects of market forces in the care sector. He did that a few times, even well before the corona crisis broke out. He knows like no other that the care is complicated and that it takes a lot to change things. That means you have to put changes in the scaffolding in time. The Minister refers to the outline note that we are about to receive with a consultation, but I am missing the view of this Minister in his reply. What does he want to put in the scaffolding to deal with this market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u9	It's one of the elements. I think that's how we should position it. It was quite a few times yesterday, and you know my point on this point. I have said many times: less market, more cooperation, I think that is the direction in which we should go. If you look at the past few months, you've seen it happen. In fact, cooperation has been much more sought out within the current system. This applies to insurance companies which have been raised together. This applies, for example, to providers of care in the neighbourhood and to providers of long-term care. This cooperation has also developed much more across the fields. I believe in less market and more cooperation. In the past period we have done a number of things in this respect. For example, look at the calls for tenders in the social domain. The bill on this subject is still moving in the direction of the Chamber. For example, the production incentive has also been removed from the new funding for community care. Things have also changed when organizing the neighbourhood care as a single team. Purchasing conditions have changed and competition has now been removed from the evening, night and weekend services. We see that a number of steps have been taken at this point in recent years. At the same time, I don't think we're here yet. It's always looking for a good balance in the incentives you put in the system. One party will say that it is looking more for framework conditions that encourage parties to want to be better than they were yesterday, and perhaps a little better than the neighbour. That is the healthy competition Mr Veldman was talking about yesterday. Another will say that he thinks it is more important to put the incentives for funding in the direction of cooperation. It's always about that balance. But less market and more cooperation is a line I believe in, and I think there are still some steps to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u10	I listened very carefully to the Minister. He says he's done a few things, and he's done a few things. But he doesn't really confess to color. I think that's a missed opportunity. It's actually a little meat nor fish. When you say as a minister that you want less market forces and then you talk about balance sheet, I expect more. He says, "I've chosen another way to pay for community care." Does he actually say that he would want that for the whole care? Does he want us to stop paying for production? Is that what the Minister says, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u11	You know we have a portfolio distribution within the cabinet. On medical-specialist care and the funding incentives, Mr Van Ark will be joining us shortly. But let me zoom out a little bit. I think I'm pretty clear on what I think. I've never put that under chairs or couches. I have also debated this with your Chamber a number of times. We have had a number of more practical effects of saying that less market and more cooperation is something I believe in. I mentioned what I see of that in the district nursing service. The way in which we have financed and organized community care leads to an enormous fragmentation, and we need to get rid of that. Especially when the demand for care increases, accessibility should not reverse. So we will have to make sure that we organise it more as one team and that has led to different purchasing conditions. So I think I have taken clear steps there. My line towards the future is that, with increasing demand for care, cooperation across the domains will also have to increase considerably. Otherwise, you won't make it. If we want to promote this cooperation, the funding will have to be based on that. Then we will have to opt for a line of less market and more cooperation. Besides, I think there are many more assignments. You're gonna have to promote innovation. You will need to promote more the degree to which prevention in our healthcare system is rewarding. All these themes will include the consultation process of the contour note. I believe in that direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u12	A third question, Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u13	Yeah, I'm rounding up my question. It's still complicated. It's still elusive what the Minister says. He continues to say that he is in favour of less market forces, but I do not hear him say that he rejects competition between them. What does market forces mean? Market forces mean that there is competition and that is what we see happening in all areas of care. I would like this Minister to make a clear statement on what he wants to abolish market forces. Otherwise, it's gonna be a little half-hearted. We can all love it, but then we walk away from this debate and we think: what exactly did this minister say? What exactly is he trying to abolish? I'd love to have an alternative to that. I want to walk out of here today and know what this VWS minister wants to do about abolishing market forces.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u14	I think I have just answered this a number of times. What I want to do is to put all the incentives in place so that it promotes cooperation. That's what I said about that. The steps we have already taken, for example in the area of care and social procurement, are also relevant. By doing so, you prevent parties working in healthcare from competing against each other, and you promote cooperation, for example through funding incentives and legislation. That's what we need for the future, and that's what I believe in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u15	I think the proceeds are very shaky; let me put it this way. The Minister has been in the newspapers year in, year out: we need to get rid of market forces in healthcare, it needs to be less, we need to work more together. When asked about what he has done about it over the past few years, he actually gets no further than a small point within the district care. That's very shady. If the Minister means what he says, then he must also come forward with proposals, for example to make the distribution of profits impossible in the care sector. You could take care of that. He's a minister; he can arrange that. He could also come up with a proposal to get the competition between insurers out of it, just to stop that bullshit. He doesn't do any of that. So my question is: if he means what he says, why doesn't he come up with real proposals, instead of just taking care of the neighbourhood, for example? I don't want to hear him anymore; come up with a real example of what we're going to do about the market?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u16	Then I come with an example in the field of procurement, for example in the social domain. Then I come with an example of real rates in youth. Then I will come up with the steps we have taken in the restrictive conditions for the distribution of profits, although they have not yet been completed in a decision. But of course we have also worked on this line in other areas: less market, more cooperation. It is true that, of course, the cabinet makes really different choices from the SP. That's clear, too. I believe that Mr Hijink knows that too; we have said this before. What if you wanted to replace the system of health insurance at once with something completely different? Such a system change takes so incredibly much time and probably so much money, that we simply don't have the time. So I certainly believe that our system must be adapted on its way to the future, but building a whole new system is so time-consuming that it will distract us from the task we actually have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u17	Once again, the Minister is not answering my question, namely: what are two very concrete measures to remove this abuse from the care system? It can, for example, make it impossible to distribute profits to shareholders and directors. You can make a law for that, but the minister didn't do that. It can also be done, for example, by stopping the competition between health insurance companies and with the policy jungles, to ensure that there is just a clear basic package that everyone can rely on. We can take care of that, and the Minister doesn't. I appeal to the Minister because he himself in the newspaper once again every year talks about less market forces in health care. Then I also think you should deliver. I would like to ask him again: please respond to those two points that I myself mention. Why haven't they been settled in the last three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u18	I don't think we're doing a wallet huffle here on the spot. Colleague Van Ark will respond to everything that has to do with the care financed by the Health Insurance Act. I think I've been clear. The line of less market and more cooperation is a line I advocate. By the way, we have also taken steps in this direction. In addition, we are not finished with the system for the future. There's still a lot to do about that. I think that this is just going to be the subject of a lively election debate over the next few months. Then there is a new formation and new choices are made. That's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u19	I must say that I find the slogan 'less market and more cooperation' a bit the same as 'a better environment' and'more peace'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u20	It starts with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u21	They're all of those terms that everyone thinks: yes, if that's not necessary. I think this is the next challenge. Let me ask a question about the outline note, on which my hope is based. Perhaps I can put that question directly to the Minister, so that we do not get some sort of common denominator from the field, but that we also see the different arguments from the different parties. Everything is political, I say, also a contour note. There are now three rulers of three different colors, so it already becomes a common denominator. If we really want to do something about it, it would be important for us as a Chamber to be able to receive the underlying documents as part of the contour note. Is the Minister prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u22	I am very willing to do so. I would like to underline what Mrs Bergkamp says about this. If you look at the future and the great task we have with each other, you will see that we actually have steps along three lines. Firstly, we will have to give more form and substance to prevention within our system. Prevention must pay, but how? What incentives do you put in place for this and who has what task in it? Mr Blokhuis will say something about this in a moment. A second major task is the way we shape the direction and organisation of care and cooperation across the domain. The third major task is everything in terms of innovation and the labour market. That is a third major task that we have towards the future. There are different choices to be made, on which different party political views also exist. I think it is right not to lay down a monolith with indeed the great common denominator of the field, but rather to outline different policy options there, so that they can be chosen at a next formation table. This also means that you will have to have the underlying arguments of the different parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u23	I'm glad. I think that is valuable and then it is indeed up to a forthcoming cabinet to look at it again with wisdom. Another issue I would like to raise is the question of controlling growth. That is a real concern to me and we do not yet have a clear answer to it. What could we do, within the system we now have, to gain more control over growth? This week we have had the advice of the Healthcare Institute and the NZa about appropriate funding. I think your colleague is going to say something about that too. But through the President, I ask what you see, looking at long-term care, in order to get a grip on growth. I think that is a real concern, whereas other parties may find it less of a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u24	I think that everyone eventually finds that a concern; let me start with that. In the long term, growth can no longer be helped by the labour market. In the long run, growth can no longer be increased by our household wallet, both on the side of the Empire and on the side of the people at the kitchen table. After all, if you have to pay an increasing proportion of your income to the care, then there is a time when it is no longer possible. Then that part gets too big. Today we are discussing a budget in which we are talking about 94 billion. I believe that the first budgetary treatment I took here was 78 billion. We have indeed grown tremendously with great strides in the past period. And yes, that's what we're worried about. If you look at what we could do at that point within the system, I think the following is an important observation. That is the lack of control in order to be able to control care within that system. Sometimes that has to do with who makes the indication and who then pays the bill. There's a point there, of course. Indeed, much more often it has to do with production incentives. You pointed that out yourself. All parties have pointed this out. For example, with regard to production incentives in the district care, we switch to client profiles. We talked about that. This means that the production incentives will really change. In many areas of care, we will have to look at how we can get these production incentives out. At the same time, of course, we must avoid new waiting lists. So there are certainly choices to make, but I think that a change in the system will be inevitable in order to get a grip on growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u25	I am very pleased that in his speech so far the Minister has made it very clear that care in the Netherlands is of good, if not very high, quality. That is certainly the case if you compare it with care in other countries. I think we should be proud of that. I agree with Mrs Bergkamp that the slogan 'less market, more cooperation' is somewhat meaningless. That is why I have two questions for the Minister. Does he agree with me, and with many investigations, that cooperation within the current system is just possible? This can be done on many fronts and in many ways. And does the Minister agree with me, as many reports have shown, that since 2006 we have had EUR 800 million a year cheaper out of this system? This means that we can take more care of each other, because we will then publish it again. Does he agree that this system, and the way in which we have organised our care now, makes a great deal possible and in an efficient and good way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u26	The first is: I believe that cooperation can indeed be carried out much more often than is often thought and done. At the same time, I think you have seen in that crisis how this cooperation can apparently be achieved if there is a need for action. Several spokesmen have said this, including Mrs Ploumen. I think that's pretty impressive. But isn't it true that this cooperation often comes about despite the system and not thanks to it? Honestly, I think so. I do not think that there is sufficient support from the system for this cooperation to be sought and found. I am going to mention a few examples of this. There is an example that has been touched by several parties, among others by CU and CDA, and I also thought by your colleague Laan, namely forward investment from the Wlz. It's kind of weird now that with everything Wlz-funded, the money can only be made up to someone who has also been given a CIZ-indication. This means that preventive activities must not be financed. This means that there is no incentive to co-operate from parties in the Wlz with the field in question, for example district nursing. That's pretty unwise. At the moment, the incentive to finance is that it is simply not allowed. Another incentive for funding is that it is very often to stoke the neighbors when, for example, the municipality invests in prevention. That's actually very unwise. That's burning for the neighbors, because the profits you get from prevention always land with someone else. It is burning for the neighbors when a health insurance company invests in prevention, because the profits that you have may land with another, when it comes to collective prevention. In short, I believe that there are incentives in the system on many fronts that do not promote this cooperation but discourage it. I think there's an incredible amount of profit to be made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u27	I think we can find each other in that. That was also part of my speech yesterday on medical care, but it applies to more sectors. This production incentive is finite and we need to find new methods for this. That is without prejudice to the fact that if you look across the field, there is cooperation within the existing system that we have. In fact, there can be much more cooperation without us having to change this kind of rules of the game. In addition, you simply create healthy competition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u28	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u29	This is quite apart from the fact that, over the past 14 years, the system as we have organized it together has resulted in us being cheaper out of EUR 800 million per year, which we can use again to provide good care. The Minister doesn't go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u30	Good. You made your point very clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u31	I cannot calculate that last sum, but I assume that it is true, because that is not something Mr Veldman says for nothing. I share Mr Veldman's view: please do not wait for changes to the system, but let us deal with everything that can, already within the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u32	You're all in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u33	I'm going to disrupt the minister's pink dream a little bit. Before people think, "God, everyone agrees and the sky breaks open," I'm a game breaker here. I find it strange that the Minister says that he agrees with Mr Hijink, Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Veldman. And soon he's probably gonna agree with me, too. It doesn't all go together. We're gonna hear Mrs. Agema, too. That doesn't all go together, because we're different in it. That's my first concern. Two. Of course, it is nice that the Minister says: I agree with you that production incentives should be removed. It is good that the Minister says that he agrees that there should be more cooperation. But he's the minister, and he can do something about it. Now. Mrs. Van Ark is not giving such an interview as this minister has given for the NRC. That's because she probably doesn't think so. If she feels the same way, the Minister can say: well, Mrs Van Ark agrees with me; she is going to fix it. In short, I am sorry, but I really have to say that the Minister, although he is from Rotterdam, speaks fine words, but that the actions are really lagging behind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u34	I disagree with Mrs Ploumen. Maybe I'll help her with that, because I think she'd be much more comfortable if I didn't agree with her. I'm getting that idea now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u35	I find it much more pleasurable if the Minister does something about market forces in healthcare, which undermines people's solidarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u36	So that's what I'm doing. I have just explained that. I mentioned the steps I've already taken. I also said that we still have a lot of work to do for the future, including the removal of production incentives. Honestly, I think you should want to keep an eye on the fact that it is quite nice that it converges so far across the parties that the removal of production incentives by all of them yesterday I heard that the VVD is also being underlined as something that is important for the future. Well, I like that. And yes, I always try to get out a little bit in the middle. I think this is a nice step forward. I would not like to say that this is a pity or that we should not pretend that we are all in agreement. On this point, I believe that there is a great deal of unanimity in the Chamber, and that should also be mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u37	If I listen carefully to the Minister, then the Minister says: thank you for agreeing in the Chamber; I agree with the Chamber and, by the way, Mrs Van Ark, who is going to talk about this, is going to say what she is going to do now to get those production incentives out of care. Because that's what comes together, seems to me: the three-stroke.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u38	No, I think I just explained it to your room. I have repeatedly said that we must opt for more cooperation and less market forces. Well, not everyone's thrilled about that line. You don't have to. I think it's a sensible line. In recent years, I have shown what I mean by this: in particular when it comes to public procurement in the social domain, in particular when it comes to funding incentives in community care, in particular when it comes to working together in community care as a single team, in particular when it comes to removing night, night and weekend services from competition. We have taken this type of step, and we will have to take that type of step, also for the future. Two is: we will have to organise this cooperation much better across the domains and, as you yourself said, learning from what we have seen in recent times. Three. We will need to do a lot more innovation, because we will not make it without innovation. Labour-saving innovation. We have a much bigger concern to answer with each other. If we do not do all that and do not take those steps, then in the long run we are going to torment all those things that make us so fond of care as we do now, namely: accessibility, affordability and high quality. So we're gonna have to make those choices with each other. What choices should this be about, of course, there are party political differences of opinion. Of course it is. And that is why I am setting up the process for the coming months in such a way that we are actually going to make the contour note in the way Mrs Bergkamp says it. We're gonna take the field to do the analysis. We will work out the policy options with the field: what choices will need to be made? Those are choices that affect the system. In recent years, we have just said that we should not make these major changes to the system, because we need to calm down for a while after the enormous change in the system under the cabinet before that. So for a moment rest at the front, but for the coming years we will not escape system changes. And we're gonna prepare them for content, and the choices follow after the 2021 elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u39	Let's talk about cooperation, but in practice. Those who can and want to give the best form to this cooperation in practice are precisely the caregivers, the hands on the bed. They know how to find each other in the field. Those who stop this cooperation are at the top. Those are the management and management, because of course they also have to keep an eye on their financial statements. Now we talk very often about how we want to keep these people for care. One of the most important things in this is the autonomy of the caregivers in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u40	And the question is, Mrs. Sazias?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u41	My question is: if we really gave workers in the workplace, who know exactly where to find this cooperation, more room for autonomy, wouldn't you solve something already, for a better working environment for the caregivers themselves and for a boost to that cooperation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u42	I'm sure there's a lot of profit to be made there. By the way, my colleague Van Ark will be discussing work in the healthcare sector in a moment. The labour market is her domain. But I'm sure that'll help. Where health care organisations take that kind of steps and offer more space I can see that in nursing care, for example, many more people can be held. I've been able to find new people for care lately, for example in nursing care, but the problem is that it's much harder to hold people. Indeed, the organisations that do offer this space in the workplace are doing much better. So I am sure I can see that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u43	The labour market is returning to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u44	But I don't think it's okay to leave this alone in the labour market. This is wider. It's also going over the bulkheads. The neighborhood nurses, for example, are looking for cooperation with the hospital, really over the bulkheads. So it's much wider and more integral. We need to better support the autonomy of the people in the workplace who know the way, who know what is needed.............................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u45	Sure. I think we are very much in agreement on that point. Then I want to take the step to the second block, the care of the elderly. There lies a more special task for working towards the future. We have had the trajectory of the Forest Committee, the Future Care Committee, the elderly living at home. It has outlined what is needed on the way to the future. What do we want to do with that? The same period we need for the contour note care wide we want to use to go deeper for the care of the elderly. I've informed you of that. We're gonna start that trajectory. We are going to start the social consultations with three questions that are very important for shaping the elderly care of the future, namely: what can I do myself, who takes care of me when I need it, and where do I live and live? We will formulate policy options for those three questions. We will take that into account during the same period, but as I explained last week, that is no reason to push forward all the choices that need to be made, because we cannot afford to do so. PVV, CDA, 50PLUS and VVD have asked to reduce the waiting lists and increase the capacity. The agreement with Zorgverzekerings Nederland is that they will present regional plans this year which will take steps to increase the capacity for nursing home care; that is the current and future capacity. The planned regional building plans of healthcare providers and an implementation agenda should reflect the activities they undertake in the short term to meet the growing healthcare demand of Wlz clients. I hope to be able to present these plans to the Chamber as soon as possible. I'll do that as soon as I get them. In a letter that Zorgverzekerings Nederland has already sent, they indicated that the ambition is to achieve at least 25,000 additional places during the coming cabinet period. That step is very important. Mrs Laan added: this is about the capacity for nursing home care, but it is also about new forms of living and care and about living longer at home; how are these two routes connected? For longer stays at home, we are going to ensure that a residential vision is formulated in each municipality. We support them in making that residential care vision and we support them in financing new forms of living and care. With these steps, the Task Force will live and ensure that every municipality will have such a vision of living care next year, such as by summer. I want to ensure that, in the spring, we conclude a housing agreement with all the parties needed to do so, so that they do not become two separate routes. Because they have everything to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u46	Then I have Mrs Laan-Selschap and then Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u47	I heard the Minister speak a number of times about a vision of care for the elderly. Then I think it's specifically about nursing home care. Yesterday, in my first term, I asked: how do these Cabinets and Cabinets deal with the changing society next? A major part of this is the ageing of the population. There's a silver wave, to say the least. How can we agree on that? This is not just about the Ministry of Social Affairs, but also about the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment. That's about a lot more than this. I hope that the Minister with the parts he has now appointed has not given an answer to that. 'Cause I wouldn't think that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u48	No. I very much agree. Over the next 20 years, the number of 80-plussers will double. I think, frankly, we can hardly imagine how that is really going to change our society. The relationship between the different age groups becomes completely different. This also applies to the relationship between workers and non-workers, to the relationship between those who need to be cared for and those who can take care of. That means that we really need to move not just to another institution of care for the elderly, but to everything that supports that way of living together. In any case, what I want to do is to include its concerns in a dialogue note on care for the elderly. In fact, I would like to choose a floor on what we are going to do about the contour note. I want to choose a floor in how to organise this care for the elderly. Part of this comes back to the sections as described by the Forest Committee. Part of this also comes back to the proposals as you described them yesterday. We will do so in the coming months, in fact in the same way as we deal with the contour note, namely by consulting in a broad way. We will certainly not just consult the care parties, because that would be far too narrow. We need to take a broader look at that. In addition, we will simply have to take concrete steps. Mrs Laan would, I think, be the first to say that. Because you can't live in notes, especially in dialog notes. We don't have to wait for another cabinet period just to get to work. And we already are. That is why I have just explained that when it comes to those places in nursing care, the regional plans that are already being made with the concrete steps needed for these 25,000 new nursing homes are being offered to us in December. When the time comes, we will send it to the Chamber as a cabinet. And we're just gonna prepare that residential care agreement in the spring. We're just gonna fix that. So we're not gonna wait for new notes or anything, because we just have steps to take right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u49	Of course, that sounds very tasty: 25,000 nursing homes. But if we just focus on those nursing homes, we know that at the moment there are already 20,000 elderly people with an indication on a waiting list. But we also know that TNO has calculated that we will need 164,000 new places in twenty years' time. That is different from what the answer says; it says that in twenty years time we will need 100,000 new places. A number of them also need to be broken down and rebuilt. Then you think 164,000 at the end of 2040, and that's it. But then 25,000 in the coming period of course is not enough at all. If you did, if that was your pattern, every cabinet period, 25,000, you'd be at 100,000 or 125,000 when you'd need 164,000. No, it's even less. Because you need it at the beginning of that last period. You have four cabinet periods. You don't have enough places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u50	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u51	So why be tough about 25,000 when it's not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u52	When offering the regional plans of the joint care offices, we will also outline how this fits in with the forecast given by TNO. I see Mrs Agema's point. It is also right that she says: but TNO has calculated that over the next twenty years we will need about double the number of places of nursing home care. But TNO says: if you continue to organise the care in the same way. I think that we all do not have a glass ball and all of us do not know how this concern will be organised in 2040. But I think we all feel that we need to take steps and that it can't stay the way it is. If we keep it about the way it is, we don't have the manpower to organize the care in that way, with twice as many 80-plussers. So we're gonna have to make choices. This is without prejudice to the fact that at least it helps to have more nursing homes than we have now. That explains the 25,000. That is a very important first step for the coming cabinet period. Whether this is entirely in line with the TNO forecast? Yeah, for the short term at least. We will clarify in the offer letter how that is appropriate for the short term, for the upcoming cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u53	Do I understand that I have to feel that those 164,000 are never going to be realized, because the upcoming Cabinets are just gonna break down nursing care? Because they are going to realize what is on pages 14 to 16 of the current budget, namely that 50% of institutional care in hospitals and nursing homes should be moved home? Am I supposed to feel that? People who are at the very last minute of their lives, who are sick to death, who are bedridden and need very heavy care in the final period of their lives and who are given an indication of what we now call nursing home care, can we count on them to have a bed in 2040?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u54	Good care for our most vulnerable elderly is absolutely what we all want. We'd do a lot for that. That applies to all parties. I think that is also reflected in the choices we have made in the past period, for example in the financial choices we have made over the past period. There's an incredible amount of money going to nursing care. I calculated that last week: from about 10.5 billion to about 16 billion. That is an incredible additional financial contribution. Many people have a plus of 2.1 billion in mind, but it is an incredible financial contribution to the nursing home sector. And rightly so, because work was needed when it comes to quality, but work was also needed when it comes to the number of places of nursing home care. To the future: if you see that the number of 80-plussers doubles, triples the number of 90-plussers and quadruples the number of 100-plussers, you can count on your fingers that you need more nursing homes. A lot more. That, anyway. TNO calculates the double. Whether we can actually do that is, of course, the question, if you look at the labour market. That's also a simple sum. 265,000 people now work in nursing care. Where are we gonna get the double number? Will it really succeed in finding the double number of people for nursing home care and will it also succeed in paying the double amount for nursing home care, where in an international context the Netherlands is already in the lead in spending on nursing home care? I think that sum is quite difficult to make. At the same time, we all want the best care for our elders. How that puzzle fits and how we're going to put that puzzle, that's exactly what we're going to have to do over the next few months and over the next few years. What we are not doing is waiting until we have produced a new report on this or a new government agreement on it. What we are already doing is just building and planning in the places that will be needed in the coming years anyway. That's the 25,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u55	That was indeed a very simple calculation, to calculate that at least you don't get 25,000. It's not about how much money goes to the nursing homes. It's not about how many nursing homes there are going to be. The point is, there's plenty of money going to the nursing homes, enough nursing homes being realized and there's plenty of people at the bed. That is the responsibility of this minister. It's up to him to make a plan. It is up to him to say that the next period should not be 25,000 places, but 40,000 to 50,000, every period. He'll have plenty of them. As regards the staff and all the proposals that I made here yesterday and which have already been removed by letter today. This minister has increased the administrative burden in long-term care to 35% of the time. That means that of every 1,000 people working in the nursing homes, 350 are in the administration business. Then I say: do something about it! Get rid of those rules! Automate processes! Digitalize processes! Because if you reduce that administrative burden, that 35% that they have now lost to accountability, you can take care of and nurse more people with the same number of people. That's where your priorities must be. So not at "how do I cut all this off?', But at "how am I gonna organize this?" How do I organize the nursing home places? How do I organize the money? How do I organize people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u56	That's right. That will be necessary. It's not a choice of or-or. We don't have that luxury at all. It will also have to be possible to reduce the administrative burden further. I have worked hard, even in recent times, to reduce the administrative burden. That's a tough phenomenon, we all know. Everyone wants less administrative burdens. No one gets on a bike in the morning. No one in charge of nursing care, no alderman, no minister, no official, no official, goes to work and says, "You know what we're gonna do? We're gonna come up with some bureaucratic burdens. That'll make them feel better." No one wants that, but it's happening anyway. It's some kind of self-running baking flour. You need to get off that actively. That's what you do with scrapings, breaking rules. And even then, it's an extremely tough thing to do. I don't think that's gonna be enough to create more space for additional places. Well, don't you have to do it for that reason? No, of course not. You have to do everything you can to reduce the administrative burden, and you have to do more to have enough space for our older people in the next 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u57	Fourth question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u58	Thank you, Mr President, but I think it is important. These administrative burdens are much higher in hospitals, but there is also a lot to be organized around a patient. Someone has to keep coming back, there have to be investigations, it has to get back into one system with the specialist, it's all a lot of administration. But what about a nursing home, a substitute place for home? They'll check in once. One time they check in and then they move in. How is it possible that all these nursing home workers are on average 35% of their time working on administration? It is unbelievable that with small scrapings and a crumb here and a crumb there should be solved. We just have to get rid of it! They moved in, they checked in once, and everything else has to be done with that responsibility. If you can do that, or perhaps your successor, we may not lose 350 out of 1,000, but only 100, because you still have some work to do, but not so much. That's my point. I hope that this Minister wants to see that he does not always have to hang up these doom scenarios of 'yes, and now there are so many people working in care and soon there will have to be so many' and 'it is unmanageable and soon it will be unorganisable'. No, you have to say, "People have checked in, now they live here and now it's over with responsibility. We're gonna take care of them now. We're gonna get away from the computers and we're gonna take care of the people." That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u59	Yeah, but that's what I'm for right now. Anything that helps to reduce the administrative burden, I am instantly in favour of that. I've worked hard on that, but it's a tough job. A lot of nursing homes that organise scrapings about that and are fanatical about it, really know how to take steps and achieve things. But it's not gonna be zero at all. That's also very difficult, because before you know it, I get a question here about the quality of the nursing homes. That question must have been administered somewhere. There are always checks-and-balances that require some administrative burdens, but you prefer to have them as little as possible. I very much agree with that. But I am also going to respond to Mrs Agema's statement which she has just made and which she also brought in in the first term, namely that they are doomsday images. I don't think we can afford that way of talking about the future of care for the elderly either. I think we all have to face it, and be honest about it, that leaving it about the way it is now doesn't go to the future. Those numbers are real. That's what I want and I can't escape. It's wonderful that people are getting so old and getting older. That's a beautiful thing. We are going to organise that care very well for them, because they are just entitled to it. But that is a very big job and a very difficult puzzle. Twice as many 80-plussers, three times as many 90-plussers and four times as many 100-plussers, you didn't just organise the care for that. It is a doubling of the number in twenty years. Leave everything about the way it is or pretend it can, it just can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u60	There's a lot to build up. There's gotta be a lot of extra nursing homes. If you see at individual nursing homes and residential care centers how much time it takes to get a piece of remodeling done, with all the planning procedures if there are any objections, you are afraid of that. I am curious to see whether the timeliness of this can be achieved and the process accelerations that can be achieved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u61	At the nursing home sites, it is certainly my intention to discuss with the health offices and the providers how this could be done more quickly. There we should be able to help on several fronts at the same time. Indeed, on the part of the permit granting and the municipality, because there is certainly a lot going on. I'm sure there's more bottlenecks to why things can't go faster than they can. The most important thing, however, is that, and this was the observation that we made a number of debates ago, there was not until recently really a look at what is needed for the next twenty years for places due to demographic development, which construction plans are now in the pipeline and what steps we need to take. I hope that sketch is as sharp as possible. I still have to get it myself from Health Insurance companies Netherlands. I think that's a win. There was no insight into that so far. That insight must be provided, also in order to establish that there are white spots. It must be someone's problem. We have had the discussion that we still have a duty of care. Yes, we do have a duty of care. But there you are as a care office with your duty of care, while there are actually insufficient providers with enough plans for the future. Then how do you realize your own duty of care? That is why it is good to have clear, first of all, for each region, what is to be done here and what is to be done about the planning that has already taken place, so what are to be done about the construction plans. And indeed the next question comes: where will they all run into to realize it quickly? And we have to answer that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u62	Let me ask you a question about that regional challenge coming up at the end of the year. Are 25,000 nursing home places added? Is that what these plans are about? And when? I think that's important, because we're pretty much familiar with the tasks. My second question is about the elderly vision. I read that it is based on a dialogue paper 2040. To be honest, I had never heard of such an apology. Can we get that note? What is the view of the elderly more than what we already know? Bos' report was also a vision of care for the elderly. Before you know it, we have a lot of visions in the last few weeks of this minister. In my opinion, the Chamber has been more helpful in dealing with the regulatory burden and with a concreteisation of the nursing home sites than with a vision, if I am quite honest. I wonder who's happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u63	You're gonna love it. That's the promise. Of course I'm gonna send that note. We have the contour note and it is about the care as a whole. There will be a consultation with the field to eventually have a contour note with a large number of policy options from which the forming parties can choose after the elections, as a service for the forming parties. Of course, they can choose differently. But it is serviceable to put that on the formation table, because my belief is that you will have to make some adjustments to the system in order to be fit for the future. It's about care as a whole. The dialogue paper on care for the elderly is a further step in this direction. Is it the same as the Forest Commission? No, definitely not. We shouldn't do things twice. It is a supplement to that, because that committee was only about the elderly living at home. This is about the integrality of care for the elderly as a whole. How did we get to that? You know we've been working on the integral equation, the new funding system for nursing care. Mrs. Laan asked about that yesterday. There's a kink in the cable because of the coronavirus et cetera. But there was also strong criticism from nursing care: is this going to help us, is this being benchmarked, does it not lead to any more administrative burdens........................................................................................................................................ I've met a lot of resistance in further developing that integral equation. That is not to say that this method of financing is completely out of the question, but that is to say that this was also the reaction from the whole of care for the elderly. We must first rethink how we are going to shape this care for the elderly before we come up with a new funding system separately. Then I said, "Okay, I get that." The decision on a new funding system will be up to a subsequent cabinet anyway. Let us then use the intervening months to think through a new vision of care for the elderly. I have said to Mrs Laan that I agree with everyone who says that we are not going to wait for new visions to do things that can and should already be done. Then it's about cross-domain collaboration, about just building those nursing homes and building new forms of living and care. It's already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u64	I hope this doesn't go away from my interrupting time. I also asked if those 25,000 places would be added now and if so, when.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u65	When it is, I'll let you know when it's offered. That's right. That's about 25,000 places in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u66	I indicated in my speech that I like the fact that more dignified aging has been given a place in the coalition agreement. One of its components is appropriate forms of housing. Despite the optimism of the Minister, I think that this should really be done. At the end of 2017, together with the coalition colleagues, I tabled the motion on an old-age settlement agreement. That was the end of 2017. In 2019 we had the Task Force Living and Care. They'd all put bottlenecks in the picture. It's gonna be 2021. Then we get a residential care agreement and performance agreements, but in the meantime, hardly anything is being built. The SP had the initiative paper. The CDA, who's behind me, filed motions along with the SP. I've also filed motions with the CDA. I'd like to ask the Minister when those houses...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u67	No, no, no, Mrs. Agema. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u68	Sorry, I just got distracted. We have a plenary debate that still needs to be held. How many houses have been built for "home in the nursing home" in the last period and when will all these other initiatives come out of the ground? I'm actually just a little tired of waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u69	I think that you are now somewhat lacking in reality. There is a lot of construction going on. There are a lot of new initiatives. But it also takes a lot more. That's why we both have to do it. We need to build and build what is to be built, and we need to promote in every way possible, financially and otherwise, that new forms of housing and care come from the ground up. We have also earmarked money for this, and we have even made substantial funds available for it. We also have a lot of things to do for the future. So let us just do justice to what has happened and what is already being built and in the pipeline. But let us also say that it will not be enough in the future. That is why we are taking all these other initiatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u70	I know a number of private initiatives by people who want to grow old together. They don't get home to the city. There are several locations, but the municipality thinks: that is our land; we also want to make some money from that. It can't go on financially. I know several housing corporations that want to build, but run into obstacles in the Housing Act. I filed a motion with the CDA at the beginning of this year to amend the Housing Act. Where is the amendment of the bill? It's just taking too long. I really want this cabinet to speed things up. Next year we have the performance agreements and a residential care agreement again. It's all back on paper. Then we have another agreement, an agreement that I asked for in 2017. I really want the Cabinet to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u71	Indeed, you asked for the agreement to come. I thought that's what you wanted. That's why we're gonna make it. We do that because we think it is necessary ourselves. Last year we started the Task Force Living and Care. The Task Force Living and Care helps municipalities to carry out a residential care analysis. That is incredibly important in order to get at all what the mission is for a municipality and how agreements are made about it. In half of the municipalities, this housing care analysis has already been completed. In the next six months, the other municipalities will also be added. This means that this analysis also builds, but of course it is not the case that other municipalities do not build because that vision of living care is not yet finished. It has to do justice to reality. There's a lot going on. Moreover, more is needed in the future. Anything that helps us get there, we're gonna do it. This is also the removal of barriers and the introduction of better incentives to get all those parties who need to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u73	Well, then, yes, I'm moving on. Mr Peters mentioned the courtyards. A court is a much desired new form of living and caring. There are also very nice examples of this. With the incentive arrangement we have created, the construction of this form of housing is further encouraged. Then there are a number of questions in the area of family care, which fit in with this. We're gonna have to support our carers better. We have recently made agreements on this, actually on MantelzorgNL, but there is still work to be done. That was the point made by Mrs Sazias and Mrs Laan in particular. I am happy to answer the questions that have been asked, and I think it would be wise to include her amendment in the answer to Mrs Sazias's questions immediately. I forgot to mention it, Mr President, but I want to do the amendments anyway at the end of my first term, at least the ones I know at the moment. Mrs Sazias has tabled an amendment in which there are actually three elements to improve care support. One. Carers who have to prove over and over again that they are carers. In fact, the family care certificate is not working properly at the moment. I do think it is right to take steps there. Two. A national portal for care support. Bringing supply and demand together in the area of care support is indeed not easy. Three. Those meeting centers for people with dementia. I would like to leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, because I think it is a very valuable addition to the plan that was made together with MantelzorgNL. Mrs Laan asks whether we support work and family care well enough. I do see a large number of collective agreements that are now covered, but I also see that we are not yet there. The Minister of Social Affairs and I support working carers through the Work & Mantelzorg programme. In addition to attention to leave arrangements, attention is paid to awareness, best practices, tools and knowledge sharing for employers, managers and colleagues to make work and household care discussable. In addition, at my request, the ESC will present an opinion on work and care at the beginning of 2021. On the basis of this opinion, VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands will also present an action agenda for work and care. Mrs Laan's specific question was whether there really are any obstacles in legislation and regulation. To be honest, I doubt that. I think the obstacles are actually in two places. One is the collective agreement. I think it's really something for employers and employees to make agreements together. The other is the social norm. I think there's a lot to change about that. If we advance the film for twenty years and imagine what our lives will be like and what the relationship between workers and people needs to be cared for, then I think we will have to look at our work in a completely different way, also in conjunction with family care. It must become much more normal for work and care to be combined. And not just by women, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u74	I asked precisely because of that last point. I spoke a little quickly yesterday, but I also spoke yesterday about the figures on this issue. I would ask the Minister, in the report which he receives in the spring, to make an explicit numerical analysis, specifically of women who are already working part-time. How much more part-time can it be? Someone who works four days a week and goes back to three: we all know... That's the standard that hasn't been discussed. Then you do less in the working life and we want all these people to work in the Netherlands. Maybe they can work in the care again and then we can solve another problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u75	Absolutely. Working time factors and part-time work certainly have to do with this. You wish it was a choice. I'm very liberal about this. I would say that it should be a choice of family or partner to agree on this together. At any rate, what you often see at the moment is that they are often women at the moment. I think Mrs Laan is right to draw attention to this. At the moment, it is often women who choose to become carers: I'm going to work less than a day. This means, of course, that you will find it more difficult to enter the labour market after that. And not in all jobs it's just as easy to make this type of arrangement. In the public sector, I think it will often go a little easier than outside. It is very important that employers and employees take this into account in collective agreements. Moreover, the world is not only organised by collective agreements. So as a social standard that it is normal to provide care and that it is normal to be involved as an employer as well, is very important. So I'd like to respond to that request on the numerical side of the matter. The SGP has still asked about the driver grace care, Mrs Clémence Ross, and its conclusions. We accept the recommendations of the national drivers. They have also been part of the approach taken together with Mantelzorg Nederland and other bodies. One of the points is supported by Mrs Sazias' amendment. One of the points raised by Mrs Ross is that there is very often an offer from a municipality, but that offer does not find its way to the one who should use that offer, because it is simply unknown. Of course there is a lot to be found through municipal sites, but there should be a much better overview of what there is to offer for carers. I think that the national portal proposed by Mrs Sazias can really help. That's one of the ways we take over and do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u76	Before you proceed, Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u77	What struck me at that point is that there is often one more step in that direction. It's not just that someone says: I'm a caregiver, I'm threatening to get overloaded, where can I find help? It is also about the step before that, that as a caregiver you could actually be very much in the interest of support. It seems very difficult to take that extra step. How could it be further encouraged to say it in these terms to take that proactive step?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u78	What we are doing there I dare not say it in the presence of Mrs Bergkamp is that national campaign Share your concern. That's one of the campaigns we've been running. I don't know if you've ever asked for it, but it's important. It is very true that the majority of carers would never call themselves "coach carers." We have, according to the definition of caregiver, about 4 million carers, but most of them do not call themselves that at all. They're just taking care of their mother or their father, their brother or their sister or their partner. From "mantle care"? What exactly is that?" So share your concern is a campaign that aims to make people aware of the fact that they are caregivers, to make them aware of the fact that it can become heavier as time passes, the care becomes heavier and the combination with the rest of your life more difficult. That campaign is intended to make people aware of it. # PART JOURNEY.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u79	I would like to share another concern about this. I understand that some carers can benefit from mental caregivers. Just people who are not in a social network or in a church community, but also much wider, people who do notice that they run into a lot of questions, that it can be a very difficult, difficult phase. Is there access to mental care for this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u80	Sure. In any case, you know the steps we've taken on mental care. Mrs Dik-Faber has tabled several motions on this subject and has asked for it more often, again yesterday. What we do in that area is that we make spiritual care possible. We're funding that now through the Palliative Care Networks. It doesn't really belong there, but that was the fastest way to get on with it. We are now looking for a better, more structural way of financing, but until 2021 it is funded in this way. This also makes this spiritual care more and more accessible, even independently of institutions. It has always been accessible in health care institutions, but not in the neighborhood or outside institutions. This is what this is meant for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u81	That was exactly the point. If it is linked to the palliative terminal phase, then it fits into the picture, but it may be a phase for that. Do I understand the Minister correctly that he says: we are looking at how this funding can be widened so that it can be made more accessible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u82	It should not be understood from the fact that it is funded through those Palliative Care Networks that it is only accessible to people who use palliative care. It is more accessible, but funding takes place through this way, because that was the most logical way to quickly shape that funding. But we do need to look at how we are going to organise this funding towards the future. It is precisely the intention that this is widely accessible, including for people outside the institutions. In my view, this was the question I had taken out and selected in the context of care for the elderly. This brings me to the third part, in which I would like to deal in particular with the questions raised about vaccination. I would like to explain a few things. I also sent the letter requested by Mrs Ploumen yesterday. I would like to explain a few things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u83	Next week we also have a corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u84	Of course, so that's why I thought: the other corona questions will come next week as well. But vaccination is important, I think, because there's a lot to do about it. I predict: there will be a lot to do every day in the coming months. In this context, I try to inform you first of every significant step. But it's a lot of what's happening and a lot of what's being brought out, often by third parties. At the same time as you hear it, so do I. That happens, so that means I can't always be the publicity for informing you. But at least I'll make sure you're aware of every significant step. I would like to take you somewhat into the complexity of the operation, so as to make it clear how we are preparing. All the things you can prepare for, of course, we've done. I have already informed you in the summer progress letters about the way in which, in anticipation of the actual completion of all vaccine developments, we were already in the process of purchasing vaccines. Those were the most promising vaccines we saw before us and as we were advised by a scientific panel, so that, by making agreements with these suppliers, we would be in front of the queue and could also speed up the whole production process. We first did this ourselves together with Germany, France and Italy. We've established a joint vaccine alliance. Then we handed it over to the European Commission, so that the European Commission's negotiating power would allow the contracts to be concluded for 27 Member States at once, with the result that we have six contracts next to each other by the end of November. Our vaccine portfolio now consists of six vaccines. Other preparations that we have been able to make have taken place at RIVM, because that is where the direction is on the implementation of the vaccination operation... are the arrangements with the logistics service provider and orders of the things that are needed, such as needles, freezers and that sort of thing. In doing so, we have prepared ourselves for all the points that are known. Another path is to advise on which target groups we should start vaccination in what order and what is a good, sensible vaccination strategy. I sent that to your Chamber on 20 November because we received advice on this matter from the Health Council on 19 November. We asked for that advice sometime around the summer. On 19 November, the opinion came; on 20 November, you were sent the vaccination strategy by the cabinet. It makes it clear to which groups we choose first: first of all, the vulnerable and the people who take care of them, I say in the shortest summary of all these different subgroups. Last Monday evening, we received the signal that the EEA would announce on Tuesday morning that they would make a communication on the assessment of the first available vaccine, BioNTech-Pfizer, that they wanted to complete the authorisation opinion this year, so that the European Commission could reach an authorisation decision a few days later. That has been a reason to inform you. Your Chamber was informed of this immediately after the EEA had announced it. This is how we have to take it one step at a time. In the vaccination strategy I also indicated what is complex about the puzzle we have to lay with each other. We have a nice system in the Netherlands that is also used in the flu vaccination, where we have many experienced implementing parties that are close to those who need to be vaccinated. The target group is reasonably similar to flu vaccination. That means that we have experienced performers on our own, but I would add that the complexity of the operation is of course that you normally prepare a vaccination while you have checked all the dependencies and know at all points what can be complex in it. Not in this case. The first real complexity is that we depend on the authorisation assessment on the efficacy of the vaccine in the groups that you would actually want to vaccinate first. That's one. The second dependency you have is the size of the delivery we get, for example the 1 million BioNTech-Pfizer that we expect first. As a second delivery shortly thereafter we expect 400,000 of Moderna. How do they relate to the groups you want to vaccinate as a priority? The third dependency or unknownness you have is that you learn more and more about all the logistical requirements associated with the vaccine. We've known about the -80°C for a while. We recently found out that the batches go by 1,000. But that does require you to put the puzzle over and over again. So we have already had many discussions with the implementing parties and we have prepared them in broad terms for the way in which we would like to proceed with vaccination. But we also agreed with them that we will have to remain agile. That's just necessary. Every time we get a puzzle piece presented as a cabinet in that complex puzzle we are dealing with, we will inform the Chamber about it and we will take the puzzle a step further with the executive parties. I think that's how we should make that deal. That is how we have done it in the past six months, and that is how we want to do it in the next six months. On the basis of the provided puzzle piece of the EEA, which says it is expected to be able to give its admission advice on 29 December, we have been able to lay the following puzzle piece. We have said: then we should do everything in our power to ensure that we can proceed with vaccination in the first week of January. Put everything on top of everything, with all the blows to the arm, because that's part of it. I understand so incredibly well that, of course, this will trigger a reaction immediately, in society, with you and with the performers in the sense of "Yes, but what about this? What's the deal with that? When can I color my box on the calendar when it's my turn?'. That makes sense. That vaccine is our main asset to put this nasty crisis behind us, so it makes sense to think about it that way. But there is really no other way to deal with it than to operate step by step and step by step to communicate with you what the Cabinet knows. Right now, we're working with the executive parties to further colour that puzzle. So we have three dependencies, three unknowns. Will it work? We need to adopt this for the time being, because the EEA opinion will only come on 29 December. The second dependency is: does the first batch really fit with the first target group that you would like to vaccinate as a priority, from the point of view of its content? Is that a match? That's the second complexity in the puzzle. The third is: do all the distribution requirements, all the logistical requirements, fit the way you would like to vaccinate? Take the 1,000 batch. Does that go handy with general practitioners, for example? I would just like to mention a very practical question. This is the subject of discussion with the performers at the moment. I hope to be able to take another step forward in providing clarity in the next progress letter. That will be next Tuesday or as much sooner as possible, if we can take a step sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u85	I actually had Mrs. Diertens first, and then Mr. Hijink. And if you send something to the Chamber, it would be very nice if that would also come to the Chamber in time. I know you're busy, but so is the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u86	I think it is indeed very complicated. That calls for a proper alignment. I wonder how this prioritisation is achieved. Of course, there are a lot of intricacies in the way the vaccine works. Is the vaccine intended, in particular, to make people less ill, thereby improving their recovery, or is it also preventing the infection? That has to do with the target groups that you might or might not be able to vaccinate. How does decision-making take place? Then there is something that I also think is very important and what has gone wrong in previous vaccination processes, namely that the registration of who has been vaccinated with which vaccine is subject to ICT is very often wrong. So I would really like to ask how this decision is taken and how the Chamber is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u87	The last question is the easiest, namely that I will make any meaningful step you can take because the puzzle is to be further explained to the Chamber. The questions are a little more complicated, also because, of course, we do not know everything about the effectiveness of the vaccine at the moment. But how's it going? It actually started with the consultation request to the Health Council months ago. This led to an opinion from the Health Council on 19 November and on 20 November the government issued its vaccination strategy on the basis of that opinion, making the choice to stay close to the vaccination strategy proposed by the Health Council. A number of strategies are outlined. The first strategy is: how could you best reduce the damage to the virus, so mortality and disease caused by the virus? Several strategies are conceivable. You can also see if you can prioritize in the people who play the biggest role in the infection, for example. You could do that, but that has some important drawbacks. It takes quite a long time to properly protect people and we do not yet know whether the vaccine that comes will also prevent the transmission of the virus. There are therefore a number of important limitations. The third way was to choose the vital professions, so that you counteract the social disruption as quickly as possible. The Health Council comes to the unanimous opinion............................................................................................................................................................... Then the Health Council says there are several ways of doing that. If it does not work because, for example, the vaccine is not effective in people with the most vulnerable immune system, you could also opt for ring protection. That's that you protect the people around them, for example the caregivers around them. In nursing homes and disability care institutions, as a health care provider, you are very close to the people you care for. Of course, this is also the case in home care. So you could also opt for ring protection. What are we doing? We want to stay as close as possible to that advice from the Health Council, namely to protect the most vulnerable people first and their care workers. That's how we formulate it. With that guidance, we will now continue the puzzle with the implementing parties on the basis of what we already know about the vaccine that comes first. We know it's a million plus Moderna's 400,000. There are a million of them from BioNTech and Pfizer plus the 400,000 from Moderna that follow quickly, is our hope, expectation and announcement. We are currently working on these parameters to lay the puzzle. As soon as we get there, I hope to be able to say more about this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u88	The Health Council really did write a good piece of advice, I think. However, the manoeuvrability that you yourself indicate is of course very important because we still know so little. That is, of course, our uncertainty. That is why you really want to be taken very quickly when the cabinet deviates from it, in order to avoid all this messiness in communication. That is not always possible, but it is sometimes important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u89	Communication is incredibly important, but at the same time incredibly complicated. I have to be honest about that, because it will stay. In the coming months, it will remain that there will be communications that you as a cabinet have to relate equally to, such as the announcement by the EEA that the assessment is expected to be completed, if all goes well, by the end of December. You need to relate to that as a cabinet right away. We did. At the same time, we will always have to be honest about the things we don't know yet and the unknowns that are still there. So we always have to communicate with strokes to the arm. That is not easy, because before you know it you have read the whole package leaflet, you have communicated all the strokes to the arm, and is the shortest summary anyway: the vaccination starts on 4 January. That, of course, is what happens. We're just gonna have to relate to that. We're gonna have to stay sober about that, too. It just makes sense, because everyone is right to look forward to the vaccine and so we should do everything we can to get it done, but there are still a lot of unknowns. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u90	The Minister himself mentioned that date of 4 January. That date did not fall from the sky; he was the first to bring it up. Of course, it would be wonderful if it worked out in the first week of January. The sooner, the better; I think everyone here will find it. But the Minister himself has just said that care and good communication are very important. Wouldn't it have been a little smarter to have good agreements about that date, also in communication, with, for example, all those parties that are so important for implementation? That goes from the GGD to the GPs and the nursing home organizations. In fact, I was extremely disturbed by the fact that the Minister blew a date into it, and the day after that he received messages from all sides. One says "premature." The other says ambitious. And another one says, "We don't know anything yet." It's not okay when it comes to such an important subject in such a way. Why doesn't the Minister choose to make such an announcement with these organizations at such a time? That's how we know it's worn. That gives more confidence, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u91	If you can, you should want to. But I am quite sure that if I had not mentioned the date, we would have had a very different debate here. Then you would have asked me: "Well, the EEA said that in all probability and if all is well with it, the assessment was completed on 29 December, and when will the cabinet start vaccination?" Then you would have asked me, "When will we see the first steps in vaccination?" I would have said: 'Yes, I am talking about that with the executive parties'. And then you would have said, "Yes, in conversation with performers? Can't it be a little more ambitious? What exactly do you want? When do you really want that... "Well, we're sitting here doing a play, so maybe we shouldn't. But we would have had such a debate. I think it's important to share what I can share. That's what I want to do throughout the crisis and keep doing. I want to share what we're committed to. And I think you can expect us, as well as the executive parties, to do it as quickly as possible, and as carefully as necessary. We must do everything, everything, to be able to start as soon as possible, as far as is justified. And so I say now: "Everything is aimed at starting in the week of January 4th, if all is well." That's one. Two: I'm laying that complex puzzle with all the dependencies with executive parties, just for the very reason you mention. Because we need to be agile, we need to be flexible and operate on the basis of the latest insights. But something can change over and over again. That's what makes this logistics operation so complicated. And we also need the sobriety to look across borders. If you do that, you can see that it goes exactly the same in all the other countries. There it goes exactly the same way. You take one step at a time, and each time you actually want to make more public than you know at the time. Actually, you might want to plan further ahead than you know at the time. And I can't. Nevertheless, you must communicate as clearly as possible by step. That is probably not going well either; we should be sober in that too. But we're trying to do it as well and as clearly as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u92	I agree. I also think that organisations that are now throwing bears on the road should not do that. Most of all, they should try to take those bears off the road when they get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u93	That's what they're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u94	And that's what happens, that's fine, and that's really good. The sooner, the better; that's what I just said. But I also think we should look at how this minister has operated over the past few months. That was often soloist too. We saw that with the app, we saw that with the testing policy, we saw it with the protective equipment. I think we should be aware that this vaccination strategy must be in order if we are to bring confidence to society as a whole. The vaccination must be effective and well organised. And then it would have helped so much more if, immediately after the Minister's announcement, the support of the other organisations had come. The Minister says it's all gonna be okay. I hope so too, but I ask him once again: make sure that these kinds of announcements are made in common, that the support of the general practitioners is there and so on. And I can understand why the Minister would say it wouldn't be in two days. Well, he'll have to make that kind of deal sooner. After all, we have known for a long time that this is coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u95	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u96	Then you can make those appointments, right? That doesn't happen until you know there's a vaccine coming, does it? Those appointments are supposed to be there by now, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u97	But that's what I'm trying to convey. On what you know, you can plan. You can make arrangements about that. You know you need freezers at some point. You know you need needles at some point. You know that at some point you need ways of vaccination for certain target groups. You know that, and that's what you can just make appointments about. But what was new now? A date! We haven't had one so far. New was that date of the EEA. That meant that we could also make the next piece of the puzzle. This then means that there will be real agreements to be made afterwards. Based on the new things you know, you can actually make a choice again. You can then choose how to link the first target group to the first delivery you get. So I am referring to the target group that comes from the advice of the Health Council and which has also been included in the cabinet response to the vaccination strategy. And how are you gonna set up the vaccination? Well, that's what we need to make arrangements with performers now. What I'm going to do is actually what I always try to do: what we know communicate, and what we don't know also say that we don't know at the moment. I predict that you will always have this feeling of 'yes, but I would like to have the complete vaccination plan'. But you can't. We're gonna have to do this one step at a time. Next week we'll know more than this week, and that's how it's gonna be. In any case, I would like to say that I will ask RIVM to outline the state of play in the technical briefing next week. I think that could be helpful. Here too, the state of play will be reflected.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u98	Mrs Ploumen, then Mr Veldman and then Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u99	Thanks for that last one. Mrs Agema has already indicated in the application that we also want to be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u100	Okay. Then it was a commitment to Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u101	Yes. Mr. Chairman. It starts with the fact that it's great news for everyone that the vaccine is there and that it seems to be working. And we hope that the safety will be in order. We should, I think, bear that in mind for a moment with all the ifs and buts we exchange here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u102	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u103	My question to the Minister is as follows. Over the past period, we have seen how complicated it was. I'm showing my benevolent side to get the test policy in order. The Minister relied on the existing structures. The people there worked very hard, too. Eventually we are building XXL-test streets, as the countries around us have. At the vaccinations, I think I see the same thing. We rely on the structures that exist for the more regular vaccinations. But in Germany and Spain they are building huge halls. It's an open question to the Minister. Does he consider all these options? Do we have to decorate this in a different way from what we're used to? Is that what you're working on? Messages like "it can't happen until August" have given everyone a bit of a minor. I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u104	Yeah, sure. Let me go back to my introduction to testing. Take a look at where we stand: we now have capacity for taking over 100,000 tests a day. That's really impressive considering where we came from. There was no national control at all on the test capacity whatsoever. There wasn't any. All this is built up by taking the fastest follow-up step. At one point, it really didn't go well. That's what I've said to the Chamber before. That was September/October. Then we couldn't actually keep up with demand with the supply. By the way, that was not an exclusive Dutch problem. That was at that time even in Germany and even in Denmark, while Denmark really has very large-scale laboratories. Even there, it was complicated at the time. So neither the scarcity nor the complexity in building test capacity has been an exclusive Dutch problem. Taken per capita, we test more than Germany. This is sometimes forgotten in the international comparison. But let me put the test policy aside for a moment. We keep all the options open, just because we need to be agile. The order of manoeuvrability therefore applies to all of us. So it's not like I trust it's gonna be okay if we do it like we always do with the flu shot. No. But I'm saying it's a very nice base. The basis we have in the Netherlands, by the way, is quite unique. They don't have one in Germany; they don't have one in Germany. That does mean, of course, that we would like to make use of it in the first instance. At the same time it may indeed be that you still have to stay agile and that you are still dependent on some larger locations. But the locations themselves are actually the least of the problems in the execution. There are many other implementation dependencies that are much more complicated than the locations themselves. The GGDs are very skilled in vaccinations. Unlike testing, that happens to be something they've been doing for years, and they're also very good at. So I'm not so worried about the locations themselves. But it is true that we may still have to opt for such an option. That is exactly what we are currently working on with the implementing parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u105	The Minister announces: if all is well, we can start vaccination on 4 January. Then all kinds of performers take advantage of each other by saying that they don't know anything yet. General practitioners say they don't know anything yet. Nurses say they don't know exactly what they're up against yet. That gives a weird, weird picture. I understand the Minister's saying that a lot of pieces of puzzles still have to be laid. I understand. Is the vaccine gonna work? Who does it work for best at what time? I understand all that, but that sounds like the minister is walking down a path and coming to an end step by step, while you can sketch some of those pieces at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u106	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u107	What different possibilities could arise? You can make different scenarios for that. Do the doctors have to be on the move first, do the nursing homes have to be on the move, are you going to do it in large halls via the GGD? Those scenarios can be sketched. They're necessary. The comparison with the flu shot is a nice one. GPs are used to that. Based on existing protocols and guidelines, they will roll that out from June so that they can prick in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u108	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u109	That is a number of months, while we now have a month to go towards 4 January. The question then is: is it true that we are moving step by step towards 4 January and then finding out that we are not ready or are there scenarios ready? If they are ready, then the question is: how can general practitioners and nursing homes not yet know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u110	Well, we might have to go back. On the 19th we received the advice of the Health Council and on the 20th I informed your Chamber of that. We have chosen a vaccination strategy whereby we are the first to vaccinate the most vulnerable people and their caregivers. That is the choice for the target group. That's one important thing to fasten, because that's an anchor to hold on to. In the letter I outlined that there are actually three what ifs that make you still have to make another choice. So we have to remain manoeuvrable in the execution. First of all, the question is: does it actually work for the target group that you would like to vaccinate first? You won't know until the EEA authorization has been granted. So we have to accept that for the time being. The second is: is the size of the first delivery appropriate to the first group you want to select? Three: are there logistical requirements for the vaccine itself that make you want to make another choice? Those three what ifs are currently being looked at with implementing parties: how could we best do it? Mr Veldman asks if there are any scenarios. The answer is yes. There is a main scenario that I have outlined to you in the vaccination strategy, and there are a number of dependencies to which we have to relate with the implementing parties. At least that means we're maneuverable. This indeed means that we will inform you step by step and that all preparations are aimed at starting vaccination as soon as possible after release, but much remains to be done. We are doing that one step at a time. Every time we are one step further, we will inform you and society about this. Then how come not all the general practitioners knew what they were up to? Well, how's that going? I am informed on Monday evening, so on the same Monday evening and on Tuesday morning we take stock: what should we aim for, what should all preparation be aimed at? Then, before the EEA comes out, we will have contact with all the implementing parties. Of course, you do this through the umbrella organizations, because it is impossible to call 8,000 general practitioners on Tuesday morning; that is not possible. So that's what you do through the dome parties. So it is possible that not everyone already knows of that date before that date comes out. That's right, and that makes sense. That's what the whole crisis will be like. It always takes a while for that type of information to get pierced. But will they know what to do? Of course, they know that at the moment they need to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u111	I understand that not every individual general practitioner in the Netherlands already has his plan of approach, although it would be nice if that were the case. But it was precisely the interbranch organisations who indicated that they had been robbed by that date of 4 January. I understand the Minister says we need to be maneuverable. There is an opinion from the Health Council, which is based on health, but there are still a number of ifs depending on how the vaccine works. I get that. But then the question remains: are the different scenarios ready? Suppose that from the EEA verification and advice from other experts who have looked at it, it is not best to start with that vaccine with the vulnerable, starting with people in nursing homes. It might come out that you have to start with young people, who could test you more massively, through sports halls. If that were the outcome, would the sports hall be ready on 4 January, including people who can prick, including all the facilities needed?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u112	No, then you're going to work with so many variables that, of course, everyone in the execution would be completely crazy. We have a main strategy when it comes to the target groups that we would like to vaccinate first. That's with a number of dependencies. I just outlined it. I don't need to repeat it. There are three important dependencies to which we have to relate time and time again. You have the experience with the flu shot when it comes to the question of how to actually close to the target group you want to vaccinate, the most logical, the most obvious health care provider that could do the vaccination. You know about that, too. We have also outlined this in the vaccination strategy. Those are the basic scenarios on which you work. At the same time, you say to those implementing organisations: we will have to be manoeuvrable. You are now sketching an anomaly where you would suddenly choose for young people or something in January. Could that still be possible? Well, that would be a very solid deviation from the main route we're using right now. And then, of course, 4 January doesn't make any sense. But we're gonna have to relate to the numbers we get. Sure. And we're preparing for that. And there are a number of turns to take. As soon as we take that turn, I'll inform you about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u113	I have one more question, because next week, of course, we will have the last press conference, the last technical briefing and the last corona debate before the Minister starts vaccination. In that last letter, which he will send to the Chamber, does he wish to comment on the question on which the sequence of vaccination of the various groups is based? It's very good to imagine that you're choosing a group that most people die in. But, yes, the group that reports most to the hospitals is shutting down our entire regular care. Well, at least there's a huge scaling down. It also makes sure that the economy is completely stopped. Can't you start with the most vulnerable in both groups? I'm just saying. I understand you can only vaccinate 1.4 million people in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u114	You actually want a kind of plan of approach for Tuesday, which indicates which groups do and which groups do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u115	Yeah, and if I put the groups together now, I think that's 3 million people already. So I'd really like to hear more from the minister in that last letter. What kind of trade-off are you gonna make? Because you don't want people to die, but you don't want the hospitals to stand up like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u116	You're damn right I didn't. I outlined the main weighing in the letter of 20 November. That's where the main weighing is. This is also based on the advice of the Health Council that these considerations relate precisely to the choice of target groups. The problem with that is that the choice for those vulnerable target groups is difficult to match with those first deliveries as you get them. These are not only the people in the nursing homes, the people in the disability care institutions and their care providers, but they are also people who live at home. So what you need to do is make that match the best you can. I will indeed outline the considerations we make in this regard in the next letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u117	I asked yesterday in the debate whether we should not take the step forward from information to communication. By that I mean that information is actually something of the 20th century. Then as a government you could say to people: take this vaccination but, that's good for you. But that's not how it works anymore. People have a lot of questions. So I think we should do more than just ask the question on the website with a ready-made answer. In the letter he's sending to the Chamber next week, will the Minister also comment on how we're going to fill this out? People have serious questions. I think there's a very large group of doubters that we can just cross the line in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u118	Absolutely. I very, very much agree with that. There are a lot of questions and there is a lot to communicate. We also have a lot in store. I'll explain in the letter next week what we're all planning to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u119	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u120	That's why I came to the end of the cubes I had in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u122	I thought: I shall now do the amendments. I've already had one amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u123	Amendments have also been commented on in writing, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u124	I can be brief, you mean.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u125	Exactly. How do you know that so well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u126	Well, I understand yesterday that I'm not getting paid per word anymore, so that doesn't make that a financial incentive anymore. I've already had one amendment. Then I shall move on to the amendment to item No. 57, member of Bergkamp. It's about pink elders. That amendment I am judging Chamber. Then I shall go to the amendment to item No. 58.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u127	The letter has already stated in writing that the "judgment is Chamber'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u128	If this is the added value of the oral commentary, you think it is again too short, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u129	It was already in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u130	Then I would like to refer to the written reply. If there's any questions about that, I'd be happy to hear it. Then I'm gonna communicate about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u131	Fine. I say to the Members of Parliament: if your amendment has not been assessed, you can ask questions about it. I don't count them as interruptions. But then it's really just about the amendment. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u132	I would like to ask a question about the amendment on the pink elderly. Of course, I'm happy with the appreciation. The Minister has the number...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u133	57.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u134	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am talking about an extra subsidy, so not about what has already been agreed. Unfortunately, I couldn't get that out of the appreciation, but I'm assuming... Otherwise you will not have to table an amendment. If it's settled, it's settled. So I want to know about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u135	I also assumed that, otherwise no amendment would have been necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u136	Mrs van den Berg, on your amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u137	On the amendment to item No. 2 of the motion for a resolution (Doc. 63. That's also what "judge chamber" got. The Minister writes: if I may interpret the amendment in such a way that... No State aid can be granted. That is quite clear, and I understand that on all sides. May I conclude that the National eHealth Living Lab is involved in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u138	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u139	Sure, but it's my colleague Van Ark's wallet. But also on behalf of my colleague, I say yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u140	Mr. Hijink. I am thinking of an amendment that has been dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u141	No, it is not about my own amendment, it is about one of D66, in part No. 18. It is about youth care and the ICT problems that exist there. D66 actually wants to clear half a million for that. Coverage is found in the free space of other funding budgets for youth care. I actually want to know from the Minister at what cost. I'm fine with it, extra money for...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u142	That's what the Secretary of State is going into, I can see from the non-verbal communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u143	This touching introduction has been noted, so you won't have to keep it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u144	I understand that it has also been discussed in the paper on youth care, but that amendment is going to comment on the Secretary of State. Then I would like to thank the Minister very much for his concise answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u145	Nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u146	Thank you. Oh, Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u147	Excuse me, it's about GroenLinks' amendment to the Expertise Centre Euthanasia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u148	Are you going to talk about each other's amendments now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u149	I don't know the number right now. Maybe the Minister can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u150	It is the amendment in part No. 71. That's changed, I just heard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u151	I have a question about that, with permission. I did not see my speech yesterday, so on behalf of Mrs Pia Dijkstra I have a question about that. The amendment is not recommended, but the Minister hopefully acknowledges that euthanasia practice in the Netherlands can sometimes be complex. This knowledge and expertise is therefore important. Last year's Laan-Selschap motion, as well as the recent study of euthanasia in psychiatric patients, more use is being made of the Euthanasia Expertise Centre, to use their expertise for the well-equipped of doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u152	So you actually think that the judgment should be Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u153	No, my question is: 'I am glad that you are thinking along with me, President-in-Office of the Council, or that it would not be good for the Minister to get an idea of what that centre of expertise needs in terms of finance and other possibilities.' Is the Minister prepared to at least map that out? This is important for our group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u154	We are currently mapping, not only with the expertise centre but with several parties, what support needs, what training needs there is. There is a need for training among psychiatrists, but it is too early to decide that it must necessarily be the centre of expertise. We're talking to the field to see what support is needed. The centre of expertise is involved in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u155	Thank you. Then I'll suspend until the chair is cleaned and then I'll give the floor to the Minister of Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u156	I now give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, the day we discuss the VWS budget, is a good time, because it is also the International Day for people with disabilities. This day is about two million people in the Netherlands, people who participate fully and people who want to participate in society, but who run into visible and invisible thresholds. We want to strengthen the position of these people; that also lives Chamberwide. We do this, among other things, with the program Unlimited and with the program Full Life. I see all kinds of initiatives that are shared on social media and they are mainly about experience expertise in the Netherlands. It's really getting caught up in the sun. I have already shown you in the progress report of the programme Unlimited participation that the use of experience expertise in the Netherlands is growing. I think that is a good thing, given the adage of people with disabilities: not about us without us. This also means that the use of this expertise is very important. It remains necessary to encourage this commitment. We do this from the program Unlimited. There are also other good examples on social media, such as the steam course sign language for entrepreneurs of SME-Netherlands. With such initiatives we raise awareness about the position of people with disabilities in the Netherlands. That's how we're working on the improvement for them. In a general discussion last week, we discussed with the Chamber the position of people with disabilities. Many Members of Parliament also asked a lot of questions about it yesterday. I have already replied in writing to many of them. Perhaps it is good to recall here that next year it is five years since the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was ratified. That is also a good time to keep this issue high on the agenda. I'd be happy to do that in the Cabinet, and I'm sure your Chamber will be happy to do the same. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Chamber for its input. Many Members are talking about the corona crisis, but not just about it. Many of your members also looked beyond the corona crisis, at the future of care, when hopefully we have been able to put this crisis behind us and beyond. I think that look forward is extremely important. The questions that have been asked have all been answered in writing, but I would like to mention a number of issues which have been discussed in many contributions and, if the Chamber so wishes, to discuss them. I would like to distinguish between the short term and the long term. I would like to dwell on what we can do now for people who need care, for everything that has to do with the corona crisis, but also for regular care, for what we can do for those who are so hard at work in the care sector. Then there will be a number of general themes, which I have heard from several speakers. I make that distinction because there are still a lot of things that we want to solve for people in this cabinet period. I think we are more united in this than it sometimes seems when you hear the many views. We all feel very much involved in the care and that is what I like to hear from the personal stories that several Members of Parliament put forward here yesterday. I think we need that consensus, because we are in a crisis and we all feel how vulnerable we are. You can be perfectly healthy and sporty, but suddenly you take a breath in intensive care. You can have a thriving business, but you have to close it all of a sudden because your customers aren't allowed in. You can lose someone without being allowed to say goodbye. This time throws us back on the essence of life, on everything that is really important and of value, but also shows us that not everything in life is makeable. This applies to us personally, but also to us as a society. It also applies to the care. As Secretary of State for Medical Care, I feel this vulnerability. I think we all know what is important and valuable right now, for care and for the people in care. I too would like to stand up for them. I have been thinking about the things that are important to me when I work on these issues. I came to a number of core values: protecting, appreciating and giving space. I have translated these into three themes, which I like to discuss with the Chamber: the current situation in care, literally protecting people, appreciating, asking about the labour market, and giving space: how does our system work and how do we look to the future? Let me start with that protection. There is no doubt that we all say that people in care must feel protected, protected. Caregivers must be able to do their job safely. It is, of course, also about the protection of patients. If you get infected with the corona virus, you should be able to go to the doctor, first of all to the doctor. But if you get seriously ill, you should be able to count on a bed for you in the hospital, an ic-bed, with a nurse and a doctor, and that there are medications. If you can recover at home and need home care, there must be. Let me say quite clearly that I share Mrs Agema's concerns, which she has expressed very well. They're about all those other patients who don't have covid, but they have to wait for their treatment, or who sometimes didn't even go to the doctor with their complaint. She referred to the questions asked by the PVV: how will you better prepare yourself for crises in the future? We have exchanged views on this in various Corona debates. The PVV has tabled motions for this and they have also been adopted. I agree with Mrs Agema that a certain robustness but also flexibility is needed in order to be better prepared for crises in the future. As far as I'm concerned, that's part of the lessons we're learning now. That reservoir of deferred care... that sounds a bit abstract but it's about people who haven't been able to submit their care questions to people in care.. is a very big problem for public health, but certainly also for the care workers. It means that they still cannot catch their breath. That is why I think it is very important to see which regular care should not be postponed. Mr Jetten called it "no hidden triage" in a corona debate. It is therefore also important that we have established the temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care. That is what the medical specialists have done, so that we can give people who need care to be delivered within six weeks the guarantee that that can be done. For example, we organise a level playing field for patients, for care workers and for healthcare institutions. Therefore, I repeat, Mrs Sazias, it is also important that we urge people to go to the general practitioner with complaints, to contact the general practitioner and to submit that complaint, so that it is a medical consideration whether you are being referred. Therefore, I repeat once again that it is still important that we stick to the measures, so that the pressure on care is reduced and other patients are given room again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u158	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Agema. You have a question about this introduction? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u159	The temporary policy framework for ensuring acute care is on 23 October. That's pretty recent, isn't it? Of course, I fully understand the objectives of the temporary policy framework. You want to ensure that acute care and critical scheduled care remains available. You are also talking about a period of six weeks when it comes to the loss of health. But in reality, over the past year, a million people have not been forwarded. They have not been referred to for medical specialist care. We see that there are a quarter fewer references to oncology. There are tens of thousands less references to cardiology. In our inbox we get messages from people who say: my mother is waiting for a heart valve and it's too late now. This morning there was the news on the journal of the Dutch Association for Pathology: possibly thousands of people walking around with a disease without knowing. I believe that this reality is very far from the objectives you have set with the policy framework, namely that a period of six weeks is the maximum for health damage. The breast cancer screening is also very concrete. I have the impression that this policy framework is far from being achieved. So my question is: what then?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u160	Maybe I can peel that off. I often hear the concern expressed by Mrs Agema here. It is good to dissect them very well and to see where the problems are. Of the million non-references mentioned by Mrs Agema, about 800 000 come before the summer. That is a direct consequence of what we saw in the first wave, namely that all care that was not acute was dropped when corona struck. Right now, we're gonna go over the million. That means that about 200,000 non-references have been added. I think that, in particular, the use of medical specialists to make this policy framework now shows that it works, because we do not have as many non-references as in the first wave. This is clearly not my merit, but of the people who have started working together in healthcare. The criteria on which this choice is based relate to irreversible health damage and life years lost. Those are the criteria. That's what people want to guarantee. In the situation we were in, especially for the distribution of patients, it was a little dependent on which hospital you were in which part of the country whether or not you got that surgery. It can't be. With this policy framework, the specialists and hospitals, in cooperation with the other parties in the first line, are keen to ensure that the real care that needs to be given can continue to be given. That is a harsh message for people who cannot do that, for whom surgery is postponed, because that can sometimes cause a lot of pain. Who's watching? The NZa takes care of this, which is responsible for the accessibility of care, and the IGJ, who is responsible for the quality of care. Together they shall ensure that the commitments made are also met in the policy framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u161	If the aim of the policy framework is to equalise suffering, it is quite different from the intention of the policy framework to ensure that health damage does not persist for more than six weeks. If the Minister here says 'which were 800,000 references from the first period', then there is another fact, a fact that I have not yet brought here. That is that Mr Kuipers indicated in one of his presentations that those intensive cares between the two corona waves worked on two thirds before the corona crisis. This means that an incredible amount of planned open-heart operations and that kind of thing did not start during that interim period. I am very much in need of a specific number because of all the signals I am referring to here. How many people died because they didn't get care? How many people have crossed that six-week limit to prevent health damage? How many open-heart surgeries haven't been performed? I would like to know exactly how serious the damage is in the categories you mention and in the critically planned care. I am very pleased that you have come up with standards and such, but we do not know what is going on. All we know is that a lot of people are not being referred to, and that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u162	With regard to the first thing Mrs Agema said, this policy framework is not intended to divide the suffering. This policy framework is intended to provide guarantees for the care to be provided. But I realize that if your care doesn't go ahead, it can still be a lot of suffering. I don't know if I can give you these numbers. In fact, I don't think I can give these figures. We've asked the NZa what those 800,000 non-references look like, but it's not... As they say, part of the care has evaporated. There are also concerns that have passed. I suspect that's a small part. There are also care questions that only come up at a later stage, but also at a later stage of the disease. As a result, a treatment becomes heavier or the disease is already in another phase. We have asked the NZa to clarify these figures, but I do not think it will be possible at the level of detail that Mrs Agema is asking, because that is simply not possible. At least those are the signals I have received so far. Then the period between the first and second wave. It is true that they had not started to catch up with regular care or not yet at full power. This also had to do with the aftermath of the first wave, because the consequences for the people in the care were great. In addition, it was also the summer period and then the occupation is lower. Now we see that, if we start to work on catching up now, we are still deep in the spring of 2021 before we get there again. And that is provided that the R stays below 1 and that is of course always the question. I further assume that all people in care can also continue to work, and that is not always a given.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u163	The labour market has yet to be dealt with and the Secretary of State has yet to be dealt with. I see what you're thinking and then we know it!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I myself belong to the group of people whose concerns have evaporated. There's a medicine that can help you deal with that allergy, that nasty sneeze. But then I think: we can do that next year or the following year. But of course that's not what I'm talking about here. I am talking about the people in whom care cannot actually be postponed. I'm talking about the people... Yes, about the category of people Mr. Kuipers also appointed! The planned ic-care turned between those two waves at two thirds of its normal capacity. That means that of a very large group of people who actually need an important surgery, for example an open heart surgery, the surgery is postponed because there is no place. But it's also about the people whose chemotherapy stopped, even though it turned out they needed it later. There are people who didn't get a heart valve and I even found the example of a lady who died in my inbox. So it's not about the vaporized care of things that can be done later. It's about what you yourself called "critical planable care." We really do not need a plan or a policy framework if the impression is that reality is simply disastrous and very large and very extensive. You say yes, but I don't have those numbers. So I ask the Minister: do everything in his power to give the Chamber an impression of what is going on in the hospitals with that regular care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u165	Let me say this: I think it is terrible figures. I also find the word 'evaporated care' a very bad word, because it is always caused by a pain or something sad. They started catching up with regular care. People had worked hard in that first wave. They were recuperating, starting to catch up on regular care, and then came the second wave. What we didn't want the first time was that there would be a certain arbitrariness. There should be no possibility of postponing care resulting in irreparable health damage. I think it really is the merit of the people in the care themselves that they have agreed this with each other. We have asked the NZa if they can indicate to us what these 800 000 non-references now look like. I'll check that out and reset it in second installment when I expect it. But as soon as I have it, of course, I will also show it to the Chamber, because we must learn from this too. Please let it be a medical consideration whether or not people are being helped, that's actually the whole port of the deal that's in place right now. That is why I find it very worrying when people do not contact the general practitioner, because then it is their own consideration. Or they're thinking, "They'll be busy, I don't think I'll go." Then you come into the situation that a lot of specialists are talking about, saying: I miss a lot of people with a melanoma. Then you end up in a much later stage and we all have to avoid that. That is why I am very grateful to the health professionals for reaching these agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u166	Last question, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u167	I'm very grateful to those people for that, but do you have to know how big the problem is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u168	The problem is quantitatively relative because you know what in your hospitals is the occupation of clinical beds for people with covid and for people on the ic with covid. You know how many beds you have left. By the way, the problem isn't the number of beds, because you put beds like that. The problem is the people in the care. We also see this in countries with other health care systems. Then it is to see how much capacity you have left and then you also know that you have to prioritize which type of care is absolutely necessary to provide. Let's hope that drop in hospitals continues. I really hope that with all my heart, because I think we should start catching up with that regular care as soon as possible. This is because a very terrible situation has arisen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u169	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u170	Mr. Chairman. I come to the appreciation of the caregivers, a subject on which I have often had an exchange of views with your Chamber. Let me say it again here, because the people who have been running the fire for months to provide care to patients at home, but also in general practitioners, at the pharmacy, in the hospital, in the nursing homes... Mrs Bergkamp put it nicely: we see the power of care. We may easily express our appreciation, but I think it is of the utmost importance that our caregivers also experience that appreciation. I know that the whole Chamber does not share the opinion that I have expressed here before, but let me at least say this: the Cabinet makes extra money available every year for the working conditions room in the care sector. This cabinet period has also succeeded. For 2021, looking at the current evolution of wages and social charges in the market, it is about 1 billion. This state contribution is the contribution of the government to the negotiating table where the social partners sit and make agreements. They've done that in the past few years. We can see that salaries have risen with the developments in the market, sometimes some of them above. This also applies to 2020 and 2021. But I realize very well that this is a subject that also comes back in all the conversations I have with people in care, because financial appreciation is an important part of the appreciation. At the same time, people are asking me 'please be honest', and I must also say that, given the economic situation, I am already very happy that we have been able to give this space. We do so in addition to the 130 million released for all kinds of things, to which Mr Van der Staaij referred, for example. The control pressure that gets in the way of professional space. The protocols that could be deleted in the crisis: can they remain deleted? That 130 million euros per year from 2023 onwards is in it for the lessons we learn and the sharpness we need there. But it is also about other matters of appreciation. People also need to feel the space to be professional, to be able to do what they're good at. That's also a form of appreciation. I have heard Mrs Dik-Faber on this, but Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Veldman have also developed initiatives for this. It comes back to the conversations I have with caregivers. They want more control over their work, more influence on their schedules, on the protocols, on the scaling up of ic capacity. The people who have to do it, they just belong at the table. Mr. Chairman. That is what I wanted to say about the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u171	You answered everything with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u172	I actually answered all the questions in writing, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u173	Yeah, that's right. I see you standing there, Mrs Ellemeet, but I actually sent Mr Kerstens away with my eyes at the very beginning, so I give him the floor now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u174	The President has a little pity on me, so I am now going to take shamelessly advantage of that. I have indicated in my contribution that the number of vacancies is higher than ever before, that they are harder to fill than ever before, that the workload is higher than ever, that the job pleasure is lower than ever and that more people leave their employer's care than ever before. All this while the cabinet started working on the labour market a few years ago, the plan Working in Care, the plan that would reduce deficits to zero. The whole Chamber remembers the debates with Minister De Jonge about this. Well, that direction zero has completely vanished. What surprises me so much is that the cabinet on the one hand recognises the problems, but then, as a panacea, is going to extend a plan that has not yet brought what was promised when it was presented. So that's not gonna solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u175	There are no miracle cures. There aren't any. It's always a mix. It's a mix of different things. It's also talking and staying with each other. The mix that the cabinet is proposing is a mix of making an amount available in the budget on the one hand, an amount that will allow issues relating to, for example, growth opportunities to be settled. It's also about an occasional reward; look at the health bonus. But it is also a question of control, where initiatives come from the Chamber and on which the cabinet has also taken initiative. And it's about a question we've asked the ESC to look at the longer term as well. The miracle cure? I don't believe in that. Let me say straight away in the direction of Mr Kerstens: would I have wanted more, is it a question of scurvy, not willing, accounting mentality? No. It is also a bit of honesty, looking at the financial situation of what we all stand for in this country, other parts of the public sectors, and yet want to give hands and feet to the importance of appreciation for healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u176	I still find it rather shabby that the essence of the solution is not a panacea or of the measure taken by the cabinet, but a plan that has actually failed. You can see that if your deficits have not gone to zero, but are higher than when the plan was presented. It is, of course, also a matter of making choices. If your choice is to extend a failed plan, I don't think you're doing so much about all the problems that health care workers face day in, day out. That's sad, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u177	If I were to sit down with Mr Kerstens and put all the components of the policy side by side, we would agree on a lot of things, I think. There are a number of things we disagree on. That's what the financial aspect is all about. If you would explain that, and I see the proposals from the Chamber, on which I will be doing an appreciation; I can tell you that I probably cannot give that judgment Chamber. I think if you peel it all off, that's what it comes down to. But let us please keep that on the table in my introduction, too, the unanimity that is needed and which is there on a great many points. In general, I also had an exchange of views with the Chamber on labour market policy on other issues on which we were very close to each other, for example on the importance, also financially, of starting salaries in health care. There is no doubt that I will speak to Members of Parliament about this, but the starting salaries in certain sectors are low, especially in conjunction with the small number of hours that some people work. So there are opportunities. If we stick together in that, I think we can make it better for a lot of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u178	I have Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Van Esch, Mrs Dik-Faber, Mr Van der Staaij, Mrs Sazias and Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u179	The Minister rightly states that recognition for people working in care is about more than just pay. I really agree with her very much. So I think it is very important that we take steps in the area of control. But still, about the salaries, the wages. If we look at the figures now, we can see that around 1 billion is being made available by the government for these salaries. Half of that goes on pension contributions. We know that the CPB predicts an inflation rate of 1.4% for next year. Then we know that there is a very good chance that a large proportion of the carers will lose their purchasing power. Then you have converted about €35 per healthcare provider available for compensation. That won't be enough. I would like to hear from this Minister whether she agrees with me that that is really not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u180	Here too, I have a few things to peel off. Take that oval space, that state contribution we're giving to the employment table. It is defined in a number of stages. First, an estimate is made. It will then be adjusted on the basis of the realistic economic perspective. Afterwards, he will be determined in retrospect. What's that pot of money doing? It is involved in the tariff setting with the healthcare providers. This will also allow you to see the scope for collective bargaining. Yeah, that's what makes him so hard to amend. That's a conversation we've had with the Chamber before. Yeah, it's been adjusted down. But that means less in this case. Yeah, there's pressure on this budget because of the pension contributions. But that's only part of it. Our assessment is that there is still room for the primary working conditions. So I think it is important to note that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u181	Mrs. Van Esch. The minister's still thinking, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u182	Yes, I wanted to say something about it, because Mrs Ellemeet said that people in purchasing power are declining. Just hypothetically, 'cause I'm not guessing this is happening. But if it happens, the government will look at purchasing power development every year in the context of the August decision-making process. Past performance does not guarantee the future, but so far every year in that August decision-making process has been able to do something about it in the light of the current situation, if there is any negative development. I don't think it is, but there's always one last political choice. That really is a political choice, so it is not a choice at the table of the social partners. That's a political choice. It's still there as a lock on the door, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u183	You will not miss the fact that I will, of course, ask questions about zoonoses again. That is what I am doing in response to the written reply that has been given. I thought I would ask a very simple question, but I can see from the answer that it can go both ways. Either my question is not that simple or the answer is about what I want to know. I will therefore just ask the question again to see if we can find another way out. My question is: who is politically responsible and who can we hold politically responsible if there is a new infectious animal disease that is not so much a zoonosis as a danger to the people in livestock farming in the Netherlands? I'll explain one sentence, Mr. Chairman. I do so because it was one of the advice of the Van Dijk Committee to do so in response to the Q-fever outbreak. Because he made it very clear that you never know when there will be a new outbreak. You actually want to prevent him, so at the moment when there is an infectious animal disease that may be dangerous to humans, I'm just going to say "bird flu"...........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u184	I have really thought about this question, as I can say to Mrs Van Esch, because I wanted to put it very clearly. It's just kind of complicated. Let me just be honest with you. It is a interplay between LNV and VWS, in which the ministry of VWS can be addressed at the time of the zoonosis structure. There may be several stages in the situation as Mrs Van Esch describes. I was just trying to show who's responsible at what stage. Eventually, when a zoonoses occurs, the cabinet is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u185	I'm gonna try to make it even clearer. The Animal Party wants the Ministry of the United States to be responsible and that this power of perseverance is to be given to this point.A motion from us is adopted at the time when there is an infectious animal disease in the Netherlands, for example from livestock farming, which can pose a risk of becoming a zoonoses. That is one step before it is actually a zoonoses, which we now see with the avian flu outbreak in the Netherlands. The motion that was adopted said that a VWS power of perseverance must come to that and the responsibility lies there, with VWS. I am therefore curious to hear that answer. Where exactly is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u186	I believe this is clear. By the way, I would just like to say that, as it says, and I attach particular importance to public health when it comes to the fight against zoonoses. I had it recorded the same way. It says here: "Once there is any indication that the circulating viruses have zoonotic properties, the zoonoses structure will enter into force. Then the ministry of VWS is leading." So I think this is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u187	I don't have a lot of interruptions and I don't think I'm going to get out of it now, so I'm going to ask another question, including zoonoses, and then I'm going to clarify it again. I am going to ask my question: are you now politically responsible for avian influenza in the Netherlands, which we know is at risk of becoming a zoonoses? Are you now, at the moment, politically responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u188	I would very much like to give a good answer. I think the answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u189	Thank you. I needed that answer! There is one other question, also about zoonoses. There would be a plan of approach zoonoses. That's really nice. That is on the basis of my colleague, Mr Ouwehand,'s motion for a resolution. A few weeks ago it was stated that a plan of action is indeed being worked on. My very simple question at the moment is what is going on with that plan of action. There would be an expert team or group, as has already been said. How far along is that? Can we hear more about that in the next few weeks or hopefully before Christmas?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u190	I think I need to call a helpline for the answer to that question. I'd really like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u191	In second term, maybe?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u192	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u193	Okay. Then I have Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij. Then Mrs Sazias and Mr Van Gerven. I haven't forgotten now, Mrs. Sazias. Now, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to come back to the issue of control in the care sector. The Minister replied to my question in writing. The answer was: in the second half of December, a senior member of the Economic and Social Committee comes with her advice or and how employers and employees work together in order to really better regulate control in the workplace. On the one hand, I note the urgency that the Minister says 'I feel this urgency too and it really needs to be better regulated', but it also says 'or how employers and employees are going to do it'. My question to the Minister is... let me think of a specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u195	You can think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u196	To be honest, I find the message here very ambiguous. On the one hand I see the sense of urgency, of that something must happen, but on the other hand I see the question of whether and how. Which side is the Minister on, is actually the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u197	I understand. Mrs. Dik-Faber just took the "or and" off. I simply read in the proposals she makes and also in Mrs Ellemeet's and Mr Veldman's proposals that it is about how. Sensitively I feel very related to that, but I asked her to do this for the elaboration of Bianca Neighbor's advice, where things are just in a broader context. But let me put it this way: I also see how wide this is living in the Chamber, so I feel that we are going in a certain direction. However, I wanted to do it this way for the sake of care. Indeed, I expect the results of this mid-December.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u198	Good to hear this minister raises the issue of "how," not "or." That's very important. She also said to make sure that legislation is needed. I can imagine that legislation is not necessary now, because we want employers and employees to work together. However, legislation may probably be on the table in two or three years' time, if we find that control is simply not yet properly regulated. I come across this too often to believe that everything will always go well in two, three years. Shouldn't we just start working on this legislation, knowing that it just takes another two years before we get that legislation done? Then it's on the shelf. If it's not necessary, it's not necessary. So my question to the Minister is: will she promise to get to work on legislation anyway, so that we can introduce it as soon as we find it necessary in two years' time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u199	What Mrs Dik-Faber wants here is actually a kind of sword of Damocles hanging over reluctant drivers. I have a pretty good feeling about that. At the same time, I think we all know that control is always best if it is based on intrinsic motivation. That's why I asked for that further reconnaissance. If it doesn't happen from intrinsic motivation, you'll just get a new form. Then you talked to that one and that one, then you can tick something off and then you can tell everyone in your annual report that you did it again. Those are actually the two extremes. On the one hand, there is this intrinsic motivation, where a law is not even necessary, and on the other hand we do not want a culture of ticking. That's exactly why I'd like to wait for that reconnaissance. So I understand very well what Mrs Dik-Faber is saying and I see it as part of the proposals she is making. I'm not against it in advance, but we'll get that outcome by mid-December. So I'd still like to suggest that we continue the conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u200	In this round of interruptions on varied topics I come up with a question about medical devices. That question was answered in writing. It was about the fact that a small group of visually impaired people depended on certain contact lenses. I understand that the two manufacturers who supplied these lenses in the Netherlands are no longer doing so because of European rules. That small group of patients is now dependent on lenses from England, and they wonder how that will go after the Brexit. Moreover, the line of doctors in the Netherlands to those suppliers is much longer there. In short, that small group of patients is really worried they're gonna run out of lenses. That, of course, was never the intention of these strengthened European rules. The minister says she wants to keep an eye on that. But who can these people find a solution to this? That's my simple question. They are actually sent from the cabinet to the wall until now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u201	In answering this question, I did indeed ask myself: what do we say to this gentleman? 'Cause it's a really nice answer. It's actually the same as the discussion I just had with Mrs Dik-Faber: it's all true, but what do we say to this gentleman who does have a problem? It's about special contact lenses, about implants. And of course, I totally agree that you need stricter safety requirements for that. That's fine, because that's also in the interests of patients. But I couldn't get past these specific lenses in the short time I had. I would like to ask Mr Van der Staaij if we could exchange information on this outside this debate, because I think that these people really just need a more detailed answer. I don't have an answer to it right now, but I recognize the question very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u202	Mr President, that is a good route. I say again: I did not intend to discuss this at all at this time. I asked for more directions to get on with this. So thank you for this hand-out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u203	Yes. In general, of course, we have been able to regulate things, such as transitional periods for manufacturers. We're monitoring that, too. Anyway, people can really fall between ship and ship, so please let me know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u204	Good. First Mrs Sazias has the floor and then Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u205	I also asked a question about neighborhood sports coaches. I don't know which minister that belongs to. Ah, I see Minister Van Ark can go into that. In the written answer it says that there are still 78 municipalities that employ local sports coaches. That number comes from the Monitor Broad Arrangement Combination Functions of the Mulier Institute. 78 out of 269 municipalities: at least there are many more that do not have them. But we look at the number of FTEs, then we see that 1,598 FTE is used for community sports coaches for children. We like that, don't we? We don't want to change that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u206	Yeah, yeah. I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u207	But only 303 fte are used for the elderly. That's a fifth part. So the number of 78 municipalities isn't that positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u208	I've been told it's 78% for the neighborhood sports coaches. So that's over 78, but maybe there's some confusion on my part. It is, of course, ultimately up to the municipalities to decide how to use these local sports coaches. So that is not something I can impose from The Hague, because the whole concept of local sports coaches is that people also look locally at what works. So it may well be that there are other initiatives in a municipality, so a local sports coach doesn't have to do so. But I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u209	We think it is important, for example, that they should be used for youth, but if we say in the Chamber that this also helps against loneliness and that it is important that there should also be local sports coaches for the elderly, then we should not leave that to the municipalities. This is particularly true when we see that too little is being done.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u210	I recognize the tension between, on the one hand, what municipalities themselves do and what we want here. I have seen this before in debates in this Chamber. I think it is very good to pay attention to this. Perhaps, in the communication we have with municipalities, we can mention good examples of elder sports coaches. But in the end, we made the rules of the game so that municipalities themselves decide how to do it. By the way, it is not the case that if a local sports coach does not do something with the elderly, nothing is done for the elderly, because that can also be two different things. But in the scheme we have chosen, we leave a lot of freedom to the municipalities. That sometimes works out so that the Chamber thinks "we would have preferred to do otherwise," but in the context of customization it can also be very good. We've left that to congregations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u211	Mrs. Sazias? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u212	Yes, I doubted, Mr. Chairman. I think we're dealing here again with the lack of a piece of national direction. Neighborhood sports coaches are of dual importance for the elderly. They are important for physical and mental health, but they are also important in the fight against loneliness. In this respect, this can also be done in the programme A against loneliness. 50PLUS would like more attention to be paid to this from this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u213	I really agree with Mrs Sazias: it can all be very good. The point is that we have agreed that we do not prescribe everything from The Hague. There are so many different municipalities in the Netherlands: a small village, a large city, the composition and everything. So I would say: cherish this diversity and let us show each other what works well in this area. I am very willing to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u214	Mr Van Gerven, then Mr Renkema and then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u215	I just wanted to come back to the number of dentists in the Netherlands. On 12 July 2019 we received a letter from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u216	2019?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u217	12 July 2019. You heard me right. So that was a long time ago. Long before the covid crisis. Then the cabinet said: according to the opinion of the Capacity Body, 52 structural places need to be added; we are going to work on that. Then we hear nothing. We end up in October 2020 and then it turns out that there should be no 52, but 100 structural extra places. Then we hear nothing again. I ask questions about this again and then the Minister answers: I strive to respond before Christmas. If anything comes of it, it is 2022 before there will be additional capacity. I would like to ask the Minister through the chairman: are you not ashamed or is the cabinet not ashamed? What are you going to do about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u218	I have to talk to my colleague, the Minister for Education, because dentistry is an initial education and it is covered by OCW. Therefore, the response to that part of the opinion of the Capacity Body is prepared by OCW. So I have to go to the colleague's audience to prepare this reaction. I can't answer that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u219	I find that insufferable, after all. We've been talking about this for ten years. Opinions of the Capacity Body are not followed and are systematically dismissed by the Minister; they are not answered and nothing is done. Can the Minister not give a substantive answer? The Capacity Body advises this and we are structurally very short of dentists every year; we have to fly in dentists from abroad, from all over the world, because we lack them here. Does the Minister not think that this should be resolved and that she should go into consultation with OCW with the intention of actually resolving it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u220	I do not want to have my mouth full of teeth on this subject, just to say it to Mr Van Gerven. I really think he has a point. If the Capacity Body says that this is the development, that is indeed the guiding principle; that is right. All kinds of things in the feasibility can cause a change down, but this is a legitimate concern. I am really prepared to take up this point by Mr Van Gerven and discuss it with my colleague in Education.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u221	You'd better wait, or you'll be through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u222	I'll put that back before Christmas, as I indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u223	Yeah, for Christmas of 2020. Mr Renkema and then Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u224	Were you already in the category of other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u225	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u226	That was not entirely clear to me, so I thought: I'm going to ask my question now that all kinds of things are coming along. It was just about physical therapy. I've been asking questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u227	Perhaps the Minister will come to that later, otherwise you will be...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u228	Then I'm early again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u229	I now come to the system and the systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u230	What about the questions about physical therapy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u231	Of course, I answered all the questions in writing, but if there is a specific question about physical therapy...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u232	Yeah, that's what my question is about. It has been answered in writing and that is fine. Physical therapy can be very helpful because it can be preventive and prevent referral to the more expensive second-line care. It is said that the collaboration between physiotherapists and others is sometimes quite complicated. I am getting signals that this is partly linked to the fact that this is not actually being financed, that there is no possibility of declaring that kind of thing. My question is actually very specific. We still have an AO Care Landscape. Would the Minister be prepared to examine with the trade association of the physiotherapists and with the National General Medical Association whether there are any bottlenecks there that could be resolved? Then it's really about funding to make cooperation possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u233	I think this is a report in the making of the Healthcare Institute. I'm expecting it in the first quarter, I'm gonna say it out of my head. I'll see if I can get it involved. If there's any real problems, I'll let you know in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u234	Okay. Mrs. Van den Berg. This is your first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u235	Yeah, I still have all my interruptions, and I'd like to use them. I have received written answers to several questions, and I would like to comment on them. First of all, Sanquin. The Minister explains in her reply why it is necessary to find a partner for Sanquin Plasma Products. I want to support that on all sides. That's not what I'm talking about. But I asked the following question. The plasma, which the minister is about, is made available without conditions. What do I mean by "without conditions"? It is stated that the products should initially be made available in the Netherlands, but there is no indication at what price or what will happen to the invention, with the new patent............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The third is: if the company is resold to, for example, a Chinese company, there are no conditions attached to it at all. That is why I specifically asked for this. It's being resold without any condition. That's what I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u236	It is precisely because I know that the Chamber feels very much about this for all kinds of reasons that I have sent it to the Chamber as my intended decision. It is precisely to discuss this with the Chamber. Now I don't know if the VSO has already been sent to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u237	No, and there's my concern, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u238	I am going to guarantee here and now to Mrs van den Berg that no decision will be taken until the Chamber has had the opportunity to give its opinion. That is also what I have secured with us in the organization, because I think that is important. So I'm actually following some kind of procedure. I'll let you know what I'm doing. Then the Chamber has the opportunity to say: we do not want that. In my view, all these questions are answered. If it is also the questions that Mrs van den Berg has put in writing. I think it's being shipped this week or early next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u239	The point is that we received the Minister's letter on 12 October. The Minister has until mid-December. The shorter the time, the more it becomes a bit "sucking or choking." I've always learned that if you don't have time, you have a bad negotiating position.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u240	I understand. Let me put it this way: I have seen the first version of the answer to these questions every week. I would like to say to Mrs van den Berg that in the second term I will let you know when the answers will come. I think they're done except for one hair. But I wanted to have a very transparent procedure by presenting it to the Chamber and also to say when I intend to take my decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u241	I have another question on another subject, physiotherapy. I had asked the Minister to carry out the motion I tabled together with Mr Raemakers and Mrs Ellemeet last June. The Minister writes in the answer that a system investigation is now taking place. But that means that every time a very small piece is considered whether it is effective to make physical therapy available before. My motion just said: for all chronic diseases, do a pilot or whatever, where those first twenty treatments are automatically under basic care. So, as far as I'm concerned, I didn't get an answer to the question I asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u242	I think that the transition process on which Mrs Van den Berg had tabled the motion has already led to a number of diseases being compensated for physiotherapy from the first treatment. So that's, I think, an important first step. But I have indeed indicated in the written procedure that I expect the Healthcare Institute to report on this transition at the beginning of 2021. And what we are talking about here, and that is simply incredibly difficult, is that the theme of proven effective care is also in Mr Renkema's direction. We have a lot of discussions in this Chamber about proven effective care. So that's the theme here, too. I know a lot of questions about physical therapy in relation to other conditions. Can't you just start a move to the first line? However, bearing in mind the discussions we are having here, I also think it is important to await that assessment of proven effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u243	I agree that we need to pay for proven effective care. That's not a discussion at all. That is the starting point. Only we see here that people who have chronic complaints, who are chronically ill, are now often in hospital because they avoid care, because they have to pay for those first treatments themselves. That's what they avoid. And finally they end up in a hospital, with much heavier costs. Even if it's a pilot I can live with it on all sides, I'd like it if at least that's investigated as such. And that's not being included in the research the Healthcare Institute is doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u244	In my view, we have also looked at the EUR 10 million that has been made available to us to see how we can actually investigate this effectiveness. So I think we're doing exactly what Mrs Van den Berg wants us to do. But I also understand what she's saying. She wants it to go faster. She'd like that broadening. But my proposal would still be to await this investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u245	Please continue. Oh, Mrs. Van den Berg has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u246	Then I'd like to talk about general care. Mrs Bergkamp has already called for an increase in the number of training places. We wholeheartedly support that. But I also had two other specific questions about general care. This concerns the task redeployment, with physician assistants and with nursing specialists. Of this, the Minister says in his written reply: yes, we are paying 700 training places. There are physician assistants who, for example, are trained in a hospital as an in-patient doctor. Then the hospital, with all the other fees, gets away with it. But if this is to be done in an individual general practitioner's practice, it does not work, precisely because a lot of time is gone because of the training. I ask the Minister: is she prepared to just map that out? I'm not asking for a pot of money right away, but I'm asking you to map it out and talk to the industry organisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u247	Yeah, I'm sure I'm willing to. It is a good point that Mrs Van den Berg points out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u248	Leave a few more interruptions for Mr. Peters?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u249	Mr. Peters has told me he doesn't have one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u250	Oh, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u251	I have one more question for the Minister. My final question about general practitioners was about regional support. In the written reply, the Minister states: I am constantly in conversation, with the National General Medical Association, for example. Would the Minister be prepared to identify what would be necessary to further strengthen regional support for practitioners before the consultation on the medical care landscape on 14 January?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u252	Whether I can really map it thoroughly at that time I dare not say so, but I would like to look with the National General Medical Association at what the themes are and involve it in the preparation of the general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u253	How long do you think you'll need? I ask that not so much because you are speaking too long, but to be able to make a little planning, because colleagues also want to suspend.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u254	I've got another block on the system topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u255	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u256	Mr. Chairman. A number of Members of Parliament have talked about our healthcare systems and our healthcare systems, and have looked ahead. I'd love to be able to do that, too. When it comes to the future of care, all these dilemmas will come together. Of course, we all want to stay healthy. When you're sick, you really only want one thing, and that's getting better. If you can't do that anymore, at least you want to have as beautiful a life as possible in your own way. "Eigen directie" called colleague De Jonge that. Then it is so incredibly important that you get exactly the care that suits you, your wishes and possibilities. Preferably at home and otherwise close to home if possible. Of course further away if you need it, for example if you need very specialized care. I found the examples that Mrs Agema mentioned yesterday in her speech to be striking in this respect. A patient who is referred from the regional hospital to a specialized hospital, where they have more experience with the treatment: that's what we all want. Of course, you want to go back to the hospital in the neighborhood after you've had that complex operation, so you can have a visitor again, as she so nicely pointed out. If you are allowed to go home, you must also have home care there and the general practitioner for all aftercare that is still needed. Maybe we can do that online. This can be done more and more often: smart care can help us enormously, as Mr Veldman rightly said. The scaling-up of that can really be faster, I say to him. You will receive a letter from me in the first quarter of 2021 in which we will map out what is necessary for this. I don't really care what we call it, as long as we get it right for people. At VWS we happen to call it "the right care in the right place." This is what I understand, but it is much wider, I say, than just medical care. It's also about preventing people from getting sick. It is also about checking whether medical care is in place, whether complaints are actually caused by debts, loneliness or perhaps even family problems. In doing so, we must take into account the situation of people. It can really be very different and so I say to Mr Kuzu that it is also about cultural differences. That seems obvious to me and I think it is right that we should pay more attention to the people in their entirety. As far as I am concerned, the broad view of care and public health also includes the themes mentioned by GroenLinks and the Party for Animals. Health is not only about the medical domain, but also about a healthy environment. The Green Deal's gonna help with that. I'll also see if we can better monitor the results of the Green Deal. Mr. Chairman. Then the charcoal sketch acute care. MP Hijink raised the fear that people have of the idea that acute care disappears from their neighborhood and perhaps the whole hospital. That is clearly not the idea. What we do want is for us to organise the non-highly complex acute care, where people most often use it, thinking of injuries or a broken arm closer to home, while concentrating only the high-complex acute care on a number of places where people really have experience. I'm not deaf and blind to all the criticism. I've also seen the petitions and the letters in the paper. I think support is very important. I would like to emphasise that there is not a blueprint which says "that's how we're gonna do it," but that there is an explicit sketch where we ask everyone "what do you think?'. We have already had quite a lot of reactions, from municipalities, individual citizens, healthcare organisations. I have already told the Chamber that I am going to combine these reactions and send them to the Chamber in January. I expect many more responses, so at least I'm going to do my best to send them to the Chamber before the election recess. I think it's important what the field thinks. By the way, this is up to the new cabinet. We're not taking irreversible steps. Mr. Chairman. Then outcome-oriented care. Our care can become more and more and for many diseases there are different treatment options, each with its own advantages and disadvantages. This means that personal differences between people increasingly matter. If two people have the same knee complaints, it doesn't mean that they benefit from the same treatment. Suppose one patient still wants to run marathons and the other patient just wants to go to the grocery store. Is surgery with all its risks the best for both of them, or is physical therapy more beneficial to the second patient? That is also the context in which I read the questions put by Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Renkema. But then we need to know more. Mr Veldman also said it about the results of treatments and how they affect the quality of life. It's about more than medical results. Care must be proven to be effective, as many of your MPs have said. You can call it outcome-oriented care or just good care, but it's about the patient. Mr. Chairman. Then there are Mrs van den Berg's three b's: accessible, available and affordable. I think they're captivating. Of course they often come back, as far as I'm concerned I call it accessibility, quality and sustainability, but the three b's alliterate also beautifully. It is really important to look closely at our system and the solidarity that it contains. Yesterday I enjoyed the debate between Members of Parliament on the future of these systems and the electoral programmes that are in place. I am very tempted to make a contribution to this now, but you look very closely at me, Mr President. Moreover, it is not the place for me to speak on this, so I do not. However, it concerns issues such as own risk and the basic package, which Mrs Ploumen asked questions about. You will see very clearly the dilemmas we face together. We see the demand for care increase, we want sensible care, but the moment something goes out, we also see the stories of the people who hit it. Then it's very difficult to carry that through. Mr Van Gerven also said that it is difficult for people to feel that something is being taken away from them. I really think it is a good thing that we have the Health Institute, not as a cold accountant who makes calculations about what can and cannot be done, but as an organisation that, having heard the profession, taking into account the state of science and talking to patient organisations, helps us to overcome these dilemmas. Dilemmas which we also see when it comes to own contribution and own risk. I heard a number of things about it yesterday. Let me at least say this: whether it goes one way or the other, that account will eventually have to be paid. I see the choices made by the various political parties, as expressed yesterday, about their own risk, their own contribution or a health care fund, which in turn leads to higher taxes. Eventually, that bill has to be paid. I should like to leave it at that, except that I would like to say that the system we have is very often interested in abroad, because it is well regulated in many areas. Finally, Mr President. Whatever system we have, there are always advantages and disadvantages. We will always have to make large or small adjustments, because time or people are asking for it. No system is perfect. As far as I'm concerned, I'm a rather practical human being. Over the next year, I'd rather take a practical look at where and how we can make it better, because in the end, the touchstone for me is that people know how to protect themselves, that people know how to appreciate themselves and that people have the space to do their job well and with pleasure. Let me just say once more: as far as I am concerned, the system is there for the people and not the other way around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u257	Thank you. One last question. Do you know that, Mr. Van Gerven? Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u258	Yeah, in half, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u259	No, one question. There are MPs here who keep track of everything. You don't want to know what's going on...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u260	Two, Mr. Chairman. Four times two was the deal, and I think we got six.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u261	No, I'm not gonna negotiate with you. You have one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u262	No, you don't have to negotiate, but it's nice if I'm right. Just a correction from the Minister. He talked about a national care fund and said it would lead to higher taxes. That leads to fair taxes, not higher taxes. My question is about an unanswered question about Gilead's coronacasen. That's a manufacturer who supplies the medicine brake desivir. For this product we pay €2,000 per treatment. The cost of making it is €10. I had asked if that was true and what the appreciation of the cabinet is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u263	I have a confession to make. It's very bad, but you're right. You still have one question to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u264	It's really bad. I need to process this. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u265	I also had a general exchange of views with Mr Van Gerven. Looking at different products, there are sometimes different components in the price structure. I must remain guilty of the exact answer about what is going on with remdesivir. I can give that in second term. I'm not ready.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u266	Still, the last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u267	I had put this very concretely in the first term. That €10 is based on an international research that costs the cost of a treatment with remdesivir... It has been in existence for a long time and has now been used for another purpose, namely for the treatment of covid. It's been there a long time. It costs €10 to make it and we pay 200 times as much for it in the Netherlands. Is it true that production costs are €10? How does the cabinet feel about us paying €2,000 for it? Isn't that unfair coronacasen by that manufacturer?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u268	I'm very sorry, but I'm not ready for this. I have to tell you the truth. I'd like to answer that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u269	The Minister will return to that in second term, and if he doesn't, we'll find out. I want to suspend the meeting. Shall we make it 8:00? Then the Secretary of State gets the floor and then we go to the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u270	Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u271	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm back. This afternoon, at the procedural meeting, the Chamber decided to ask the Secretary of State for a letter on the situation in Zeeland, on the youth protection organisation Intervence. We haven't seen a letter from the Secretary of State yet. I wish he had been there, because we still have a lot of questions and concerns about how things are going there. Maybe the Secretary of State will go into that verbally. I do think it's time for action to be taken there, including by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u272	I would like to comment on Mr Hijink's question. The letter's in the making. It is complex and two ministries are involved, as Mr Hijink knows. The Minister for Legal Protection is also looking at the concept. I want to promise that we will do our utmost to have the letter here for the second term, but I do not know if that will work. I'm trying.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u273	Otherwise, I'll give it to you next week. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u274	Yes, I think that is a good solution, but I do not know whether Mr Hijink will be happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u275	I see him shaking no. I'm not getting involved. It was a suggestion. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u276	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a domestic announcement. Minister De Jonge has already indicated what areas I am going into, but I will briefly mention it to clarify the structure of my story. I'll start with an introduction. After that, I will address the specific issues of prevention, ggz, social care, young people in corona time, the Caribbean Netherlands and 75 years of freedom. I'll deal with those themes. I would like to thank the spokesmen for their input in the first term, including the questions that have been asked. There are also a number of them in my area. They have all been dealt with in writing, but, of course, I will also deal with a number of questions. In the run-up to this debate, I thought: this is the fourth time that I have been allowed to conduct a budget debate, but it is the last time in this cabinet period. When I was here during the first term of the Chamber, I realized that some Members of Parliament were having a debate at all during their entire membership of the Chamber the last time. It's okay to mark that. Then very nice, special things happen. I think Mr Van Gerven had his finest hour when he was right for the first time in his entire career from the president. Let's mark that for a second. Three years ago, I was here for the first time. Then I started my input into the budget debate with the story of Aad. That's a disabled man who was at our parental home child at home. Every Sunday from the church I come from a reformed nest, as you know Aad, a disabled man, went with us. He drank coffee, a cup of soup. That was totally self-evident. Our children have already been poured in there: boys, we need to get to an inclusive society. It is absolutely natural that the starting point in a good society is that everyone should be able to participate and that we should organise a place for everyone. That's what drives me to do my job. That's what it's been for the past few years. In our rich country there are still people who can't participate or feel like they're on the sidelines because they're sick, have physical problems or mental problems, because they don't have a roof over their head or have a hard start in life. What that does to people, you only notice when you have a good, intensive conversation with those people. So you feel how important contact is. The special thing about a crisis like this is that some things suddenly become very visible to us, the value of personal contact for example, but also something like the importance of moving and a healthy lifestyle. It became painfully visible that people who are overweight and smokers are more likely to have an adverse disease pattern when they receive corona. It became clear that with an unhealthy lifestyle you are particularly vulnerable. Not for nothing did Liesbeth van Rossum and more than 60 other scientists and doctors summon us on 11 November to do more work on prevention and healthy lifestyles. The Corona-Inclusive Public Health Future Reconnaissance of RIVM is an additional reconnaissance published last week. This underlines once again that research shows that more people have started smoking in corona time. A lot of smokers started smoking more. A lot of people sitting at home got heavier. Many people also experience mental pressure. With the National Prevention Agreement we are working on a healthier Netherlands. At the same time we also see many beautiful developments in healthcare and they start with healthy living in care itself. I am thinking, for example, of the combined lifestyle intervention, which started last year and which has been in the basic package since that year. The caregivers and the aid workers look not only at the ailment itself, but also at the man behind it. So they look much wider than just the symptom they see. We need to do this much more often and we also need to involve social aspects, the whole of man. Why is someone overweight? Why can't we stop smoking? Why does anyone have mental problems? Why is someone sleeping on the street? In everything I do, I try to make these kinds of questions very critical. And we are also increasingly seeing in care the culture that aid workers ask those questions in full width to understand the context, to get the whole human being in the picture and to find the best solution over and over again. Which brings me to the prevention part of my contribution, Mr. Chairman. I think it is perfectly logical that we should take prevention and a healthy lifestyle as a starting point in the coming years. Fortunately, I am not alone in this, because the spokesmen here too have put a very strong line on this. I call Mrs Diertens and Mrs Dik-Faber, because they did so yesterday in their first term. More than 70 social organisations, of all kinds of plumage, have put a healthier Netherlands high on the agenda under the flag of the National Prevention Agreement. We tackle smoking, the fight against overweight and problematic alcohol consumption. Mr Veldman asked about the objectives of the Prevention Agreement. Mrs Van Esch is very critical of this Prevention Agreement. She is right to ask questions, but at the same time I would like to tell her that I cannot go fast enough to achieve those goals. We have the focus on 2040, but when it comes to parts 2030: fine! I appreciate the commitment of many people involved in this Prevention Agreement. We can see that there are also truly demonstrable results. For example, in early October, the last station smoke pole, such a smoke pillar, went from the platform to the railway museum. And "in the museum" is where such a pole belongs. From 1 August, all school grounds in the Netherlands are also legally non-smoking. And many are committed to making it easier for people to quit smoking and harder to start. We have really taken a new path with the proposed ban on tobacco online and in supermarkets. I sent that to the Chamber last month. According to calculations, this is expected to result in some 120,000 fewer smokers, and that is huge health gains. Mr. Chairman. Let's count our triumphs. More than 70 organizations I was just talking about more than 200 actions agreed. This has led to a whole movement and it does not end with this cabinet period. Of course, I remain ambitious when it comes to lifestyle and prevention and I have ideas about what we could do extra in the future. I am thinking, for example, of a minimum price for alcohol, so that beer is not cheaper than soft drinks. I am thinking of an even higher excise duty on tobacco. And the sugar tax! Some people will say, "What is the situation?" Mrs Sazias and Mrs Ploumen also made a comment on this in the first term. I value the far-reaching agreements I have made with the soft drinks industry on this point. The soft drinks industry has said that we reduce by 30% the quantity of sugar in the total of all the soft drinks sold. I look like they're gonna make that happen. I'll see to it they're gonna make it happen! They're well on their way and they're even ahead of schedule. If they fail, let me say that to Mrs Ploumen in particular, the introduction of the sugar tax is obvious, as far as I am concerned. I think it would be a good idea to say that again here. I have always been clear about this: if the industry fails to get along with it, we are going to import the sugar tax. Speaking of the future, Mr. President. At the beginning of October, I spoke with the mayor of Reykjavik about the Icelandic model, the Icelandic prevention approach. This model is now famous, because the Icelandic young people are among the least used young people throughout Europe when it comes to tobacco, alcohol and drugs. The success is mainly there in a substantial investment in meaningful leisure activities, well-being at school and involvement of parents. Of course we're not Iceland. We are giving this our own content, but I am particularly impressed by the stronger parent involvement. I think that is a very inspiring example. Six municipalities are working on this in the Netherlands. As far as I am concerned, such an approach also has the future. Mr. Chairman. In May I got a note from 1,600 doctors saying: make healthy lifestyle a priority. Famous athletes such as Joop Alberda, Sarina Wiegman, Epke Zonderland, Bas van de Goor, but also scientists like Erik Scherder literally and figuratively go along the fields and ministries to make movement and sports much more part of society. Everyone thinks that's important. It is also important, because a very large proportion of our disease burden, as much as 20%, is related to an unhealthy lifestyle. Luckily, it's not all good words. We also see very nice examples in the country. In Rotterdam, for example, I met the founder Errol Esajas at Rijnmond Sports Centre. That's a place where they just do prevention. I talked to older people who meet there to work out. I spoke to a gentleman over 90. He just goes there to work out. By moving, those older people are less likely to break something during a fall. There's also a meeting, so two birds with one stone. Obesity people are personally mentored to move more and eat healthier. With spectacular results. I spoke to Koen; he had lost 80 kilos. I'd like to give every community and every neighborhood such a place. What's to stop us from just doing that everywhere? In the stomach-liver-intestinal department of the Jeroen Bosch Hospital, they increasingly saw what they call rotating door patients, with increasingly heavy complaints. Excessive alcohol consumption often proved to be the cause. That is why they now have a partnership with addiction care, psychiatry and social work, so that people get better care after they leave the hospital, are not alone and can change their alcohol consumption. I am very pleased with such initiatives, but also with other interventions. However, we must face up to the fact that such initiatives often depend on enthusiastic people, who, so to speak, literally walk through walls. Enthusiastic people among caregivers and insurers in certain regions. As you know, in mid-December, the two ministers and I will be presenting the discussion paper 'Care for the future' to the field. In that piece we outline a picture of how we think we can do better. My main commitment to this discussion is how we can make a shift from disease and cure to healthy lifestyle and prevention. We see two major bottlenecks. Why isn't that working out as we'd like? Firstly, because prevention tasks for municipalities and insurers are non-committal, too non-committal. Secondly, the financing of prevention is not structural. Mr Renkema and Mr Veldman will recognize themselves. We need to make it clear who's at the bar for what. For example, we can clearly define the legal responsibility of municipalities which already have them, for example in the field of youth health care. Also what type of intervention you do and for which target groups you can regulate in the law. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna have that conversation. We can also talk to municipalities and health insurance companies about cooperation agreements, so that effective interventions are deployed in each region. Anyway, there are plenty of ideas for the future and I would very much like to talk to the Chamber about this. Mr. Chairman. Prevention includes not only lifestyle, but also population surveys. I don't know if the questions about that... shall I do them first, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u277	Is that a short block?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u278	No, I would like to say a few more words about this, because several speakers have called for urgent attention to be paid to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u279	Okay, then I'll go to Mrs. Van Esch and then to Mrs. Ploumen. Mrs. Van Esch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u280	Somehow, I believe that you are very keen to focus on prevention, I say through the President. I also think that three years ago there was a Secretary of State who also thought to move forward with a good prevention agreement. But I am curious: in 2018 the RIVM said that we would not achieve the goals for 2040. Now we are two and a half years further, but we are still where we were two and a half years ago. In the last two and a half years there have been scientists, there have been doctors, you mentioned a number of organisations such as the Diabetes Fund, which have indicated: there are real possibilities; they are not complicated and we can do that! And yet we don't do them so far. I am curious to see what the reflection of the Secretary of State is about and what that is about. Somewhere there's a political will, isn't there? If these solutions are available, why have we not just introduced them in the last two and a half years and are we still waiting for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u281	If I may be honest, I think Mrs Van Esch is talking far too negatively about the National Prevention Agreement. This has really triggered a movement on these three main themes: smoking, overweight and alcohol. The main gain is that a movement has been set in motion. I think there's been a rock rolling that we can't stop anymore, although you can also have negative associations. But this is a movement that no one stops, I think. I know, of course, with Mrs Van Esch, that RIVM is two years old in 2018, by the way; it was concluded at the end of November 2018: with the measures, which are more than 200 actions, which you are now agreeing with, you are not going to achieve the goals you have set out. By the way, at the point of smoking, they said you're getting really close. You can see that. Outside the measures on top of each other. That's really hard on those other subjects less. At that time, we could have done two things with all these civil society organisations. We could have said: we are going to lower our ambitions, then we can tie down the measures and then we will make it. Or we could have said: we have to add much more. Fortunately, we have chosen to keep the bar so high and to keep the targets up. That has been a conscious choice. We knew it would be exciting on parts. What is complicated is that RIVM, for example, cannot weigh the influence of campaigns. I don't think we should underestimate them. All the partners said we're keeping the targets up. That's what was deliberately chosen. We have said that we are going to monitor every year. That also happens "and then we will see if we need to add some on parts." I do not know where Mrs Van Esch has come up with the wisdom that we have not made any progress, because I would like to say the opposite. When you see what's already happened on parts, I don't think you can hold on to the fact that nothing happened. I do face the fact that we must continue to talk with each other in depth: shouldn't we have a tooth? That is why I consider the annual reporting of RIVM to be very important. I did not mention just for nothing a few concrete interventions which I say: I think they should be on the agenda in the coming years if it turns out that we are not making enough meters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u282	It is true that a great deal has been achieved in the area of tobacco. I'm sure I'll give you that, and I believe you will. Only you are not actually answering my question. Over the past two and a half years, many doctors, from scientists, from the Diabetes Fund or the Heart Foundation or the Long Fund, have all put forward options. I think you know them. That's the sugar tax. He's in the Christian Union election program. It's in there. The sugar tax is there. A VAT increase on fruit and vegetables has been introduced by this cabinet. I cannot imagine that, as Secretary of State for Prevention, you could be so happy with that, because we know that this means that people eat less fruit and vegetables. That reduction is possible. It's available. We can do that. We can do a promotion stop on unhealthy products. Look, these kinds of examples have been frequently and repeatedly identified as possible topics over the past two and a half years. That is why I find it so regrettable that you say 'yes, but I will continue to make agreements with the soft drinks industry', despite the fact that we know, also from abroad, that this is not enough to make the haste that I feel at least and that you feel with me. That's why I'm thinking, come on, we can take steps here. Then the Preventive Agreement is a good start, I really want to give it: a good start, but that is not what we are here for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u283	Various elements mentioned by Mrs Van Esch have already been reviewed here on several occasions. Those elements, such as VAT, are also reflected in the discussion of the Prevention Agreement itself and in any budget debate. Of course, there could be profit on that point, but Mrs Van Esch also knows what the agreements on this matter are in this coalition agreement. I've been held to that, and I'm loyal to it. I do not think it is possible for people to buy less fruit and vegetables because of the increase in VAT, because all food has become more expensive. For all food there is a VAT increase. I don't think people are going to eat less because there's an increase in VAT. The speeches that Mrs Van Esch refers to are all in my sights, but as far as sugar is concerned, for example, I have said once again: I think it is admirable what the soft drinks industry is doing, because that is the court supplier of sugars. Of course, they are not in bread in other products, we know since yesterday, but the soft drinks industry is the court supplier of sugars. The soft drinks industry says: we stand at the bar for the reduction of the quantities of sugary soft drinks to be sold with that percentage; we are going to organize that reduction. And they're ahead of schedule. I think that with such a gesture of industry we make at least as many meters as the countries that say 'we have a sugar tax', but that is such a minimal sugar tax that it does not have any effect at all. This is just to be expressed in percentages and the industry is currently ahead of the planning they had. They already achieved a 25% reduction last year, where they would achieve that percentage this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u284	I will continue to do so, because the soft drinks industry is of course only one of the forms. Last week there was a broadcast of the television show Checking Service of Value about baby cookies. I don't know if you saw that, but it indicated, for example, that in a certain baby cookie there was just more sugar than in a tompouce. We can continue to talk to industry, but we know how many children in the Netherlands are overweight and how many children have obesity problems. Then I think: if we see that even in children's cookies there is so much sugar, then we can't keep talking to the industry? I really think you share that urgency, but apparently there is a stop to good initiatives in this cabinet and it will probably just come from the VVD. I regret that, because I think that you are the one who is going to be tough on that. But we don't have time to wait for another cabinet, not at all with the corona crisis. There's really no time to lose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u285	The VVD spokesmen are in the Chamber, so I'm not going to speak on behalf of those spokesmen. The fact is that I too have seen the report that RIVM has given for the summer. After the mid-term review of the Prevention Agreement, as a result of the invitation of those 1,600 doctors and scientists who said "now the corona crisis is; we see that people who are overweight are less resilient in the corona period, so you have to bet on it," I instructed RIVM to present options that we may be able to apply further. The RIVM comes with this at the beginning of next year and as far as I am concerned this will remain an agenda. It is important that we have set the movement in motion and that we have agreed on a great many measures. Of course there can be more, but there is also a lot happening. I cannot mention all the measures, but we are going to work with the Nutriscore logo, for example, in those sugary cookies. Of course, such a cookie would be heavily red. Then you hope that the logo will really play a role in the culture, and that parents who go to the supermarket say: we are not going to get this for our baby, but something that scores green. That must be Disk-of-Five proof. That's how we send. There are many routes on which we steer. Of course, new interventions are needed. I said that a sugar tax is a forward-looking instrument. I just don't think it's fair, because I made that deal with the soda industry, and I respect it. I made that appointment, and all of us signed it, so I want to respect it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u286	Finally, your final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u287	I would like to devote my last interruption to this. I counted well in the amount I have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u288	Very good. You all do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u289	There you go! I would like very briefly to ask a question about a good initiative, which I think was what you said in the letter this week about the healthy lunches in schools and the movement indicated in them. I'm particularly curious about the following. It says it's going to cost a lot of money. I saw that too, so I thought, "Well, okay, that's a pretty good amount of money we're gonna have to raise, but if we're gonna focus on prevention, you're just gonna save 6 billion a year." So it is also a bit the ratio, because we can save a lot of costs by taking measures of this kind. It seems to be very effective, so I'd like to see it introduced very quickly. So I wonder if you can give me a timetable. How soon are we going to see what the possibilities are with this? I think this measure is very promising, and I think it would be a shame if we had to wait a long time for such a beautiful initiative, even though I see that it has a cost.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u290	Of course, I was pleased to see the results of that initiative. It is an expensive intervention that we do not need to sit down or sit down while we also know that it is a good and perhaps efficient intervention. If you can prove that 6 billion is the result of that bet, you're gonna get 150 MPs behind you, I think. If there's any evidence. That's a little too exciting, I think. Part of it is that the cost is for the benefit. We're gonna invest in prevention and we're gonna get the revenu back. But Mrs Van Esch has a good ally to me to roll that out as quickly as possible. However, we must put all the ifs and buts in the picture. For example, are you going to start rolling that out in schools where there are many low 6-children, so children from low-income families and where practical training has been given? Are you gonna start there, or can you roll that out wider? Just give me a minute to explore that. You're asking over, I think, if you're asking for that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u291	I repeat Mrs Van Esch: I believe that this Secretary of State is very motivated to ensure that health differences in our country are reduced. It is still the case in the Netherlands too that people who have little money die rather than people who have it better. That really is a bitter truth. We also know from research on such a research platform that this Secretary of State is actually in favour of a sugar tax, but that the VVD Group has boycotted it. We know that because that platform has been obsessed with pieces. My question is not to explain to me again how it all happened, but I would like to know the following. This corona crisis has given all this extra focus. People who suffer from obesity, chronic diseases, are very badly affected by corona. Isn't that a reason to talk to each other again and to slowly pry open this part of the Prevention Agreement? Let's just call it that. Isn't this another reason to sit down with reluctant political parties from the coalition? If there ever was a moment before that, it is now. This just saves lives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u292	In my opinion, Mrs Ploumen has experienced what it is like to be in a cabinet. It will therefore not surprise her... Yeah, I can see she recognizes this. I think she knows what these mechanisms are like. And of course, everyone talks from their own principles and you try to find each other. I am truly proud of what we agreed on in the Prevention Agreement. There's just a really nice package and this is just a good story. And yes, I have carelessly referred to the sugar tax as a forward-looking instrument. That's what I got the room for in this coalition. I also believe that we should have it very high on the agenda and that we should consider seriously whether it is appropriate to introduce such a tax as soon as possible. But right now, it's not the issue that we're going to do that. That has everything to do with the total set of agreements we made in the Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u293	First, Mr Renkema will have the floor and then Mrs Diertens will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u294	You can still do it, Mr. Chairman! The Secretary of State said some very interesting things. He said: "We may be able to include in that Public Health Act a few things that give a little more clarity to municipalities about what might be interventions." He also said: "RIVM is busy mapping out what more we could do, knowing that we are not achieving a number of goals." I actually have a very specific question. We still have a notebook on prevention before 1 February. At that time we can also table motions. Would it be possible to get some sort of scan of that Public Health Act before that date, but also an overview of measures that the RIVM believes are effective? In this way, a new cabinet will soon have the necessary resources on the table to put an extra tooth on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u295	I would like to share with the Chamber, well before that date, any possibility of taking away the non-committality of prevention through legislation. In the discussion paper we have in the context of the contour note, which today has a different name, we could share it with the Chamber. I'd like to talk about that in that notebook meeting. The second point becomes more complicated, because the RIVM is heading towards "later in spring." I want to seriously pick up that question and reconnect it to the RIVM, but we also want to have a good product from the RIVM. It will only then take place. I believe that yesterday or today we would discuss the AO's lifestyle. That is what is opposed to this budget debate. Otherwise we would have had that debate by now, and then we would have asked RIVM over if we had said: come now with your products. They're busy. I want to discuss the question seriously, but I don't think we should ask the RIVM over. I also believe that Mr Renkema wants to have a serious product of RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u296	I welcome all the initiatives we have been able to take together in recent years, including your colleague Mrs Van Ark. I'm very happy about that. With Mrs Van Ark, we have paid a great deal of attention to prevention through sport and movement. My own initiative paper is now there, with 29 points. I'd love it if it could be treated as cherry on the cake before I leave. I hope you can hurry up with that, so to speak. I have one question, also to kick off that note. It is about legislation and our experience with those three partial notes on prevention, smoking, problematic alcohol consumption and overweight. We have set objectives in these areas. My own initiative paper begins with the fact that we do not have general objectives for what healthy the Netherlands should actually be, as with the Climate Agreement. That is the kick-off I am doing with this own-initiative paper, with the question of whether you can reflect on it. I believe that, as with the Climate Agreement, we have all kinds of cycling, but we do not have clear, overarching goals as to what public health should mean, how we can keep people better in the future and how we can monitor it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u297	Pooh, that's a very comprehensive question. How do you formulate what health is and how do you link goals to it as a government? I received Mrs Dierten's note yesterday, but I have not yet finished it. Perhaps it would be an idea, if this ambition were to be stated, that we would strive to deal with that note on the same date as the paper consultation. Then we have two birds with one stone and that also gives me some pressure to react to that before that time. I don't know if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u298	A brief procedural meeting. Mrs. Diertens, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u299	It is already in the docks to be discussed at the procedural meeting on 16 December. I would be delighted if you could respond to it at the beginning of January, mid-January, so that it can still be dealt with as an own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u300	I would, of course, like to do that, but if I have to do it with steam and boiling water, I think Mrs Diertens does not feel taken seriously. There are 29 themes in it, I think. If we are to give them all the reflection they deserve, we must take it seriously. I am doing my best and I can imagine that it is Mrs Dierten's ambition to have that discussed at least before mid-February.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u301	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u302	Then I come to another part of prevention: the population surveys. That is a very sensitive and rather painful point in this debate. I share the concerns of Mrs van den Berg, Mrs Agema, Mr Van Gerven, Mrs Diertens, Mrs Ploumen, Mrs Sazias, who are not actually asking about the interval period for breast cancer research. Extending the interval between breast cancer screening to a maximum of three years has been a difficult decision for me, and I have informed the Chamber about it. Even before the COVID-19 pandemic started, we found ourselves lagging behind in that screening. They were not caused by corona at the time, of course, but by staff shortages. I informed the Chamber last September that there was a worrying situation. The pandemic has accelerated this, as the population survey has stopped for a few months this spring. During the second wave we continued, because we learned from it. Since re-launch, measures are needed to ensure that clients can be kept at a distance of 1.5 metres. Because of this one-and-a-half-meter measure, this particular population survey cannot run at full power. The delays continue as long as this pandemic lasts and we are dealing with this one-and-a-half-metre measure. I can't make it prettier, that's the way it is. I don't want to close my eyes to this problem. I don't want to put it out for me either. The procedure I informed the Chamber about last week is, in my view, really inevitable. I want to explain why. I didn't go ice cream for one night in the decision-making process. RIVM has tested various options in the professional groups involved and also in the patient organisations: help us, how can we ensure that we can maintain the starting point of an interval of two years as much as possible. We've really explored all the options, including hospitals with screening rooms. So far, that has not brought the solution. Of course, like the entire Chamber, I want women to be able to count on biennial screening as soon as possible. But to get there, additional screening labs need to be recruited and trained. In addition, we are trying to maintain staff by means of favourable conditions of employment, because unfortunately there is also an outflow. This is because of retirement, but also because people simply leave the sector, as in other sectors of care. As long as the COVID-19 pandemic lasts, we are doing everything we can to make the most of the scarce capacity we have, even if it calls for unorthodox solutions. For example, we place portakabins to organize more physical space. In order to train additional staff, I now temporarily extend the interval period to a maximum of three years. This procedure is necessary, because we already crawled there. Why do I do that? This creates scope for using existing capacity to train new colleagues, because during the course of the training you also have to practice in practice. With that, I try to tackle the problem at the root. That training lasts two years. In this way, the workforce is ready for two classes of "war strength" at the earliest in 2023. I am committed to that, but as long as the pandemic lasts, this delay can result in training. That's what I'm saying. If the workforce is at full strength, we can catch up with the delays that have occurred in the meantime and I cannot say it often enough: go back to an interval of two years as soon as possible. There are too many uncertainties to be able to predict when exactly that will work, but your Chamber can assume that I will take everything out of the closet for this. I will inform your Chamber of progress every six months. As far as I'm concerned, this is the block of this section, Mr President. Then I'll go to the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u303	Well, I didn't think so, because this is a point that almost the entire Chamber has asked for. Not everyone has interruptions, so those who want to interrupt on this need to do so now. I assume it's on behalf of the rest, too, or is it just on your own? I'm going to see Mrs. Sazias from 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u304	I understand the Secretary of State's problems. I have also read his written reply. I understand all the points he makes. But that doesn't mean you're gonna move on for a year, does it? I understand the problems. As a result, it is perhaps possible that there will be a delay and that the two years will be two and a half years. And then it's gonna be two and a half years, but not three. Then don't stretch that up to wider. Once again, I understand, but you see the reactions from the Chamber, from all over the country. This is really about people's lives. Just keep moving to three years: you just can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u305	Good. Is this on your behalf alone, or on behalf of all the MPs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u306	On my behalf, too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u307	Not everyone has interruptions, that's why. And I know that almost the entire room...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u308	Can I make an order proposal? I would suggest that all groups should be given an extra interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u309	At this point, you mean? I think the signal's clear. I'm just looking at the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u310	I don't need any more pressure to feel that I need to put urgency on this, but I'm not interfering with the proposals on order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u311	No, but I understand that almost everyone asks the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u312	The question that Mrs Sazias is asking, I understand very well. It's just, it's not like we're still two years old and we're just gonna take a year. No. I also referred to the letter on this subject, which I sent to the Chamber last September. We were already behind. They differed from one region to another. In the Netherlands there were and are already regions with an interval of almost three years. People are invited there after a longer intermediate pose. Why? Because there aren't enough screening labs. That is already the case. This is due, for example, to the fact that people leave the sector, by the way, as in the whole of care. There's just a crunch on that job market. There's just too few people. I can't pull them out of a high hat. I have said that I want to commit myself to training classes as soon as possible. Now there are already a few regions where we are at the age of three. I also find it unfair that depending on your zip code, you get two years, you get two and a half years and you get three years. We've been looking into it. It crawls all over the average to three years. I wanted to take a little bit of space to use people who are now working as a screening laboratory to train new staff, because, as I said, that is a practical training.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u313	You're welcome to interrupt because you still have a few questions, but I don't think you're gonna get out of here. There is a second term and then the Chamber itself can come up with something and ask for a ruling or something similar.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u314	Yeah, but I just want to say one more thing. If there are regional differences, they can be solved. Then perhaps you could divide that up a little, so I say again. There are several possible solutions to ensure that this deadline does not become a three-year period. In the event of misery, there may be delays. Then I expect you to do the same; I really do understand that you are doing everything you can to bring that delay back, but simply taking it to three years...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u315	I think that's clear, Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u316	...we find unacceptable. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u317	You have made that clear, and not just you; many Members of Parliament have done so. I suggest you proceed, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u318	I would like to oppose the term "rücksichtslos" in this context, because that suggests that I have something like: boys, you know what, we do three years. This has been done carefully, in consultation with the sector, in consultation with patient associations. They weren't happy about that, but they understood it. They said: we see that you need the small space you have to train extra people. So it happened in consultation with the sector. That was definitely not rücksichtslos. Mr. Chairman. I want to switch to the ggz block. Looking at people as a whole and involving social aspects is increasingly central to mental health care. That is why it is so good that last year municipalities joined the main agreement ggz. With this, the social domain is now fully involved in mental health care. In Deventer, for example, Wmo Accut and Dimence's ggz-crisis team work closely together. They have made clear agreements and work without time-consuming administrative formalities. Where does that lead to in practice? A person who is suicidal and wants to rob himself of life by debt is now immediately helped by the right care provider, while until recently there was a waiting period of six to eight weeks. I am very pleased with this kind of cooperation in the ggz. As a result, we ensure that people can participate as quickly as possible or that they can continue to participate in society. Prevention and healthy life take an increasingly important place in mental health care. It would be good if the psychologist or psychiatrist would talk to his client about that. I think Mrs Laan referred to that when she said how important moving can be for people with psychiatric illness. The ggz sector is in full swing. We had a debate about it a week and a half ago; no, that was two weeks ago. There is continuous search for better treatment options, more knowledge, expertise and recovery-oriented work for and with patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u319	Can you answer the questions? I'm getting a little strict right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u320	Yes, Mr President, but if I only have to answer the questions, I can conclude and say that I have answered all the questions in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u321	That's what it's all about in the end. I am also looking at the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u322	I wonder if the ministers swallowed a whole piece of their speech, but I want to do it with love, you know. Then I will move on to suicidal prevention, because questions have been asked about this and an amendment has been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u323	I'd love to. You do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u324	An amendment has been tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik-Faber to facilitate research better. We have that national agenda. We also discussed this two weeks ago in a general consultation; no, that was a notation consultation. But there was another hole, so Van der Staaij discovered, namely research, for six tons. He has tabled an amendment to that effect. I'm sympathetic to that. That is the amendment to item No. 86 (35570-XVI). Judgment Room. Is it No. 68? Oh, here's no. 86.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u325	I hear it's no. 68 is. Yeah, it's no. 68, by Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u326	This concludes my beautiful, greatly shortened part about the ggz, chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u327	Don't worry. Members of parliament always know how to come up with a question. Then you will have the opportunity to answer again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u328	That's about our job, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u329	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u330	Indeed, it was just as quick about the ggz. I have also tabled an amendment. That's about the preferred care in the ggz. Indeed, we have had a debate quite recently, but in fact we have had it all the time over the last two and a half years when it comes to the high-complex care in the ggz and the waiting times that exist there. I was disappointed by the government's reaction to this point. You say that it is really necessary what Mr Renkema wants, but we are going to do it structuralally, so in the longer term. While I think: an amendment, 2021, do something with that now! There is also a reference to an adopted motion by Mrs Regterschot and me to really invest in this high-complex concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u331	I have responded in writing, but I would like to take the floor to get into that. We have the main agreement ggz. That is what this particular point is about by sector "ggz', because the Dutch ggz has not brought attention to this issue. However, I welcome the fact that we are talking about this now, but I would like to talk about it in a structural way. What this amendment does is as follows. There's gonna be an amount falling out of the sky. I wasn't aware of that. That's the amount they're going to fill out now. It is nice that we want to fill that out, but we should talk about the coverage, because that coverage is really not negotiable for me. So for that reason alone, the amendment is not recommended. But I do get homework from Mr Renkema, which is to discuss it. I see that as a result of this amendment. Unfortunately, you cannot keep an amendment, but I would like to see it as a homework assignment to talk to the sector. And I'd also like to reconnect where that leads. But I stand by my position to discourage this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u332	Mrs Van den Berg and then Mr Kerstens. Or was it the other way around? I don't remember either. Mrs. Van den Berg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u333	In the debate, we had called for attention to be paid to people with confused behaviour who are dealing with ambulance workers and police officers. It just walks them over the feet sometimes. We have also discussed this in detail in the Ggz debate. I mentioned the concrete example of an American student who was murdered in Rotterdam. The killer was known to the neighborhood team. I would have liked to have been asked to do an investigation, but the inspection cannot now carry out an investigation. In the reply, the State Secretary states that there would have been an investigation by the Health and Youth Inspectorate. I've been in touch with the alderman for a while. It really gives you different information. We are not going to get there tonight, but I would like to say that we are going to ask written questions on the basis of these answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u334	Maybe I can say in response that I do not know whether the IGJ has conducted research into this particular case, but generally in any situation, even if someone does not have a relationship with the healthcare provider, research is possible. And that is what I wanted to say with that written answer. This research is possible across the whole spectrum, including the healthcare system, such as in Rotterdam. It's possible. I understand that there has been no investigation in this particular case, because Rotterdam, for example, also wanted to include police data, which the IGJ was not allowed to have access to. At least that's the information I got.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u335	The last question, Mrs Van den Berg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u336	Once again, we are not getting out of this tonight, so we are happy to return to this in writing. With thanks for this addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u337	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u338	Then Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u339	My question concerns the block that the Secretary of State did not have in front of him on paper, but which he replied to in writing because I said something about it yesterday. I spoke yesterday about care cowboys on the one hand and bona fide healthcare providers who sometimes worry very much about whether they can keep their heads above water because of the corona crisis. I referred to the letter of fire from the youth services. In the written response, the Secretary of State says: the youth care providers have to ring a bell with municipalities and then they have to make tailor-made arrangements. I'm just gonna say it in black and white, in my words. The problem, which is also mentioned in the letter of fire, is that these tailor-made arrangements with these individual municipalities are not made. We can see that here in The Hague, but we can also try to do something about it. These are vulnerable young people, children. So that is my specific question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u340	This was discussed at length last week in the Youth legislative consultation. That is precisely where we were informed that, as a result of this report, this situation manifests itself in the Brabantse, the municipality of Den Bosch and other municipalities say: we are going to make this kind of practice impossible in our new contract. So it is done what the system of the law requires, namely that the paying party enforces by contracting the municipality that this type of practice is no longer possible. So we see that movement. Mr Kerstens can really assume that in all the administrative consultations I conduct with municipalities and providers, I would like to draw attention to this particular type of injustice. We're all sharing that we need to get this out of the world as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u341	That's nice to hear, but my question was about something else. The letter of fire dates from yesterday and it is not about this theme: make sure you don't let people earn golden mountains, so to speak. Here's what's important. The youth services, fortunately, see that continuity agreements are made with other sectors in the context of the corona crisis. They are told: make custom arrangements with municipalities. So it's not about dealing with those wrong providers. That is also important, but this is about: how do you make sure the bona fide youth care providers get through the coronawinter? That's not gonna work with these custom-made agreements with municipalities. That's what yesterday's letter of fire says.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u342	The question is specifically corona-related. We believe that the framework is good and the infrastructure is good. But if that leads to unpleasant situations where there is no agreement, can I suggest a very simple solution? Then I would say, have these providers report to us. Then I'll talk to the municipalities to make sure they make good arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u343	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u344	Following on from the cup ggz I arrived at the head social care. It's going pretty fast. Several spokesmen, in particular Mr Renkema and Mr Van Gerven, have asked: what about this shelter and do you do it generously enough? Of course, like the questioners, I do not want people sleeping outside, especially in winter. In March, the Cabinet also made an arrangement for this. We then made the call: all people stay inside, including all homeless people. Parties in the field have quickly taken measures to provide shelter for all homeless people. In this way, social care has also been converted into coronaproof. The one-and-a-half meter standard is now really standard. It is nice to see what has been set up by municipalities and providers in a short time. All praise for that. It makes clear once again how vulnerable the target group is. Last week, we also discussed the question of how to improve social security systems. As far as I am concerned, the starting point is that people should be in care as short as possible and that they should go to their own place of residence. As far as I am concerned, this is really the new way of providing social assistance and social support. Municipalities are working on that. They have to carry out the plans. A very attractive example of this can be found in Eindhoven. I was there in July visiting Springboard. Roof and homeless people are taken care of and helped to get their lives on the road as well as possible. They are also not called "homeless people," but "people looking for a place to live and work." Within six weeks of being taken in, they go to their own place, with the necessary guidance. During the shelter, up to six weeks, they are encouraged not to stand by the side anymore but to participate, with work, volunteering and so on. It's a very good example. Another good example: Rotterdam announced last week to realize 1,000 flex homes for homeless and homeless people and other vulnerable people. A broad group: for example, people who are on the streets after a divorce. Part of the housing is intended for young people who leave the reception situation. As far as I'm concerned, a big plume for Rotterdam, because in this way they really make many residential spaces available to this vulnerable target group. The same goes for Utrecht: 114 residential places are available to people in the short term to give them a stable living situation. What would a homeless or homeless need, maybe a roof? They got that right there. They're good examples. We are not going to solve the problem in one month, but I call on all the municipalities to follow these good examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u345	All right, I'll go see Mr. Renkema. Last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u346	The last question is: we have been tarnished. It's about the winter shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u347	I understand there's even daddies out there that measure urf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u348	My question is about the unrighteous homeless, which, frankly, is already a bizarre concept. It means that we say to some of the homeless: you can't come into the nightcare, because you have no right to do that. Unless there's a corona crisis and we have a strict lockdown, we will. Or if the temperature of feeling is so cold, you say it's around freezing point. So if it's 3°C in combination with an east wind of wind force 5 or 6, you can enter. What's going on now is what someone described as a yo-yo: two or three days you can go in at night, but when the weather is warmer not. If the cabinet has decided on some milder measures around corona, you're not welcome again. The four big cities say, "Get some clarity for the winter ahead." It's about the next few months, because we'll have cold, rain and corona. Just continue to allow the winter shelter of the four major cities until the end of March. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u349	The city of The Hague does this and says: we pay for it ourselves. The fact is that we in the Netherlands are trying to regulate what we call right holders as best we can; you can say something about that term. That is already a huge task and the municipality is working hard to give these people a place. The phenomenon of non-righteous people is not a new discussion. That is, in fact, the story we have been hearing here for years and what this cabinet has a position on. Executed and migrant workers are helped by a different route. Migrant workers who do not have a place of residence here are offered the route to go to their country of origin. Social Affairs wants to facilitate them. The discussion about the process is exciting and complicated, but it is not a new policy. What has been added in corona time as plus for the target group non-righteous people - that term exists, non-righteous people - is that when the cabinet says "stay inside" we are also consistent and offer that to those people during that period. That's the policy. You can say "that's jojoing," but also the winter shelter is jojoing, because in the winter period it can happen six times that people go in and out of the shelter. You can all find something. It's not new.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u350	Yes. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u351	In the action programme Roofless and Homeless Young people, I think it is very nice to say that we have a youth panel with experienced young people who are very self-conscious as experienced young people who advise me on the plans. I like getting them involved like that. Their input is of great value. Fourteen municipalities participate fully in this programme and together account for more than half of the young people covered. Then kids in corona time. Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Staaij have drawn attention to this. The corona time is changing everyone, but we find out more and more that this change is also attracted to young people. They miss their social contacts, they miss the opportunity to develop and prepare for their future. We all know the examples. The corona measures have a huge impact on their mental health. It is also a good thing that we mention it occasionally. The Minister of VWS also occasionally does so at his press conference or otherwise. We see them and we're busy planning. The cabinet has taken various initiatives to improve the prospects of young people at this time, for example from social service. I say this in response to Mr Van der Staaij and Mrs Dik-Faber's question. Thousands of young people have participated in special corona projects. A good example is the old school brigade: young people develop a talent and then get in touch with older people. They're also trained to be able to engage in that conversation. It's wonderful that these kinds of initiatives exist. Corona time isn't over yet, so we keep breaking our brains about what else we can do for the kids. I don't know who asked, but I still have a response to the question of coverage of the Amendment No. 18 (35570-XVI). This D66 amendment is about supporting youth care providers in the field of ICT. The question is whether this 0.5 million cover is correct and whether it is not due to something that is needed in the field of youth care. This was also discussed in the legislative consultation, but I would like to repeat here out loud that this coverage is an agreement with regard to the cabinet and not at the expense of youth aid. Mr. Chairman. I have two more topics. No questions have been asked about the Caribbean Netherlands, but I think it is right in this debate to draw attention to this, because the BES municipality is also part of the Netherlands and I have weekly contact with the administrators there, who are very concerned because they have much less flexibility and opportunities to anticipate new situations. Since the crisis broke out, we have provided full support. The cabinet has invested a lot in increasing ic capacity, including ventilation places. An international medical temp agency has also been deployed to provide care personnel for hospitals. This applies not only to the BES islands, but also to the three countries of Curaçao, Aruba and Sint-Maarten. It goes without saying that we are not letting go of the islands. Finally, 75 years of freedom. There was no question about that either, but I think it is important enough to remember that we celebrated it in a very special way, because it was crossed by corona. It started very big in Terneuzen and through corona everything ran differently, but not less impressive. I think everyone knows where he was the moment the King pronounced his speech on Dam Square on May 4th. That was almost iconic. The speeches at the Indian monument on 15 August were also very impressive. This commemoration on 15 August is important for all Dutch, but certainly also for Indian Dutch. Many of them feel that they are not seen or heard all their lives. We've had several debates about it. As far as the backpay scheme for people from the former Dutch Indies is concerned, I am aware of the fact that the pain is mainly caused by women who became widows before the date of 15 August 2015. I see the pain, just like Mr Van Gerven. In recent times, I have had talks with organizations and people from the community about the extra 20 million. The cabinet has made 20 million extra available to the Indian-Molukian community in the framework of collective recognition. As I told the Chamber before, it was a lot about the future in those conversations. I was impressed by the participants that it was mainly about education. That's what's at the top of them. The subject which Mr Van Gerven mentions, individual satisfaction, was also discussed on a number of occasions in those talks. Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis also affects war museums and memory centers. We have supported them financially with the fund so that they can keep their heads above water at this difficult time. The same applies to the education project "Learning the War" of the Anne Frank House. Very important. The story of war is a powerful means to signal and discuss discrimination and exclusion, anti-Semitism and other forms of hatred. The translation of events from then to today's society is of lasting importance. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet period is almost over and my contribution is over. I think it is a privilege that over the past period I have been allowed to contribute to the effort to give every human being the opportunity to participate. In the months ahead, I will continue to do so with all my energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u352	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I see everyone's ready for the second term. I give the floor to Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have just been informed that Mrs Van der Laar-van Beekom, one of the older ladies mentioned by the Secretary of State, died at the age of 97. She has received posthumously the Medal of Order and Peace and the War Memory Cross, but she has always been able to whistle to the backpay because she worked for the Secret Service and could no longer provide evidence of it. If you take that with you at the end of four years of State Secretary... I wouldn't be proud of it. Then I'll come to my motions, Mr. Chairman. There's a lot of them. I don't know if it's a record for this house, but it's about 38. My first motion concerns breast cancer screening. I was able to sign a motion by Mrs Sazias and Mrs Ploumen. The Secretary of State states that the corona measures are part of it. We all stick to the corona measures of solidarity for care, not because we know whether or not those measures work and which measure works more or less. But I can't imagine corona measures being placed above breast cancer screening. I can't imagine. According to the Breast Cancer Society, this shift causes dozens of additional deaths. We're here with about 20 women in this room, so three of us will get it. I really can't get to this with my hat. It bears witness to a rudeness that is hard to comprehend. I cannot believe that corona measures could lead to this type of screening not being carried out every two years. That's why my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to continue to carry out breast cancer screening every two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Wilders and Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-72]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u354	Then a motion on what's been lost in our hospital care for the past few years, the last ten years, so before Corona came. I wish we'd all had it. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the closure of 16 emergency services, 19 intensive care units and five hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u355	Then our plan on the healthcare crisis reserve. I have repeated many times in my first term that the government can no longer afford to defy all our proposals. If your acute concern is so great that 1 million references could not have been made, that there are a quarter less references to oncology, that tens of thousands of people have a disease among the members that is not found, then you can't say: with that Wilders and Agema plan I'm not going to do anything. I really think you should have a separately funded crisis reserve, regardless of the market forces, regardless of the dollar signs in the eyes of the drivers. You need a separate organised crisis reserve of beds, people and stuff you use at the time of a crisis, a disaster, a pandemic or a terrorist attack. It's only when that crisis reserve is flooded that regular hospital care comes into view. So it doesn't have to be scaled down all this time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to build a state-funded crisis capacity of hospital beds, reserve nurses, supporters and equipment, which can be deployed in a pandemic, disaster or terrorist attack alongside regular hospitals, so that regular care can only be dealt with by scaling down once crisis capacity has been overflowing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u356	Mr. Chairman. The Minister can say that she agrees with how, in my view, hospital care should be organised, about the operation between local hospitals and specialized hospitals. This is the way it should be organised, but that is not the way it is practice. In practice, this story is thwarted by the fact that large hospitals with a lot of power and money are going to offer easier hospital care. So they're eating the county hospitals. I am very sorry that the Minister here says that she fully agrees with me, but that the practice she is in charge of is an opposite movement. Then it's easy to say to Agema: I totally agree. But in front of us, something else happens. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to shape acute care in such a way that the regional hospitals and specialised hospitals are mutually reinforcing rather than competing with each other,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u357	Of course, the greatest face of market forces was that on the eve of the first corona wave, our entire reserve of personal protective equipment was sold to China and that our Prime Minister said here: that stuff was not mine. This has had to teach us a very wise lesson, namely that we have to make personal protective equipment in our own administration and in our own country. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that personal protective equipment is produced in its own country and under its own management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u358	Mr. Chairman. Of course, there was also my annoyance when the Minister said: yes, but the right care in the right place, that is what Mrs Agema here suggests as her ideal way of organizing hospital care. It's really diametrically different. It's diametrically different. The movement of the right care in the right place must ensure that there is not later a choice between a clinic in the neighborhood, in the neighborhood, and the large hospital. No, the big hospital's leaving. That's literally on pages 14 to 16: 50% of the large hospital buildings have to leave within ten years. That movement is going on. Five of them have already been closed. Five hospitals have already been closed. We've already lost 16 emergency units. Nineteen I.C.'s already gone. That's the movement of the right care in the right place. We need to get rid of the buildings. I'm diametrically opposed to that. I'm totally against it. Something has to be done now. We need to get rid of the policy now. If we don't do this now, the hospitals will be gone in ten years, while the number of 75-plussers will double. Then everyone here is crying again, just as everyone agrees with me that the nursing homes should not close. In 2012 I was alone with the SP, but in the meantime everyone regrets it. And don't let that happen to our hospitals! That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to end the Right Care Movement on the Right Place, because the dumbest thing you can do is shut down half the hospitals and nursing homes within ten years, because the next twenty years will double the number of 75-plussers and their care demand,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the prognosis that hospital care will not be back until a year before corona is substantially reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-77]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u359	Mr. Chairman. I got a letter from Dr. Iprenburg tonight. That's a specialist who's been doing hernia surgery through PTED for 30 years. He goes in through a small tube with a bite. He has already helped some 3,000 people in the Netherlands, but for the past 30 years that has of course become the standard in the whole world, except in the Netherlands, because we have a healthcare institute that sabotages the whole thing. There's been a conditional admission to the basic package, but what happened? Mr. Iprenburg, that doctor from Drenthe, was not allowed to participate. Then there were all specialists who weren't familiar with that method at all and then all of them were going to do operations. So that's all gotten all messed up. It is really too crazy for words that we all have the mouths of innovation, but when it actually comes our way, when innovation actually comes our way, then... It's a hernia surgery, and a few years later, you can't even find the hole. But in our country, there's still such a jaap on your back. You'll still have scarring and a very long rehab. I've had twice as much surgery and for the past ten years I've never stood up for this from this chair, because I've had two of those surgeries myself. But it can't be that in 2020 we're pretty much the last people in the world to make this the medical standard. This is because medical professionals are consulted through the Zorginstituut (Zorginstituut) who, after 20 or 30 years, simply don't want to get involved in a new innovative methodology. That's why we're so behind, Mr. Chairman, and that's why I say: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the working methods and tasks of the Healthcare Institute,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u360	And the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that hernia operations through PTED are included in the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u361	I can pay for that operation myself, Mr. Chairman, and then I'll be back at work in two weeks. But if you walk for a long time with a hernia surgery and you don't have such a big scholarship as all of us here together, you're gonna lose a lot. You're losing a lot! Relationships break down. Jobs break down. Lives are ruined. And we still have an old method. Mr. Chairman. Then the specialist who then starts for himself and then is completely opposed by the hospital with a competitive clause and you name it all. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that specialists who start a clinic in the district for themselves do not have to deal with a competitive obligation from the hospital where they come from,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that care premiums do not rise in the coming year because hospital care has been severely scaled over the past year and more than a million patients could not be referred to hospital,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that hospital care for life-threatening diseases is not scaled down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that oncological care is not scaled down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-81]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-82]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-83]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u362	Mr. Chairman. The corona crisis showed how vulnerable our hospital care has become, but it has not led to policy changes. Hospitals barely get room to grow in volume, but have to treat more patients every year. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the 0% volume growth in 2022 is released for our hospitals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u363	Then the specialist who starts for himself and then works for 70% of the rate, but then also faces additional discounts by the insurers. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that specialists who have started for themselves in their own clinic in the district and therefore already work for 70% of the rate do not face additional discounts from insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u364	Then I'll be on the job market. The government can no longer afford simply to defy good ideas from the opposition. It just can't be! We need hundreds of thousands of additional care workers, and it is not possible, of course, to just pick them off the streets. No, you have to clear the hands of the people who already work in care. I had an interrupting debate with the US Secretary of State. It cannot be that 35% of the time spent in long-term care is spent on administration. It just can't be! That's 350 people out of 1,000 you lost to administration. If the administration would not be more than 10%, because of course things always have to be organized and arranged, then you just have 250 people out of 1,000. That's the kind of thing that matters; that's how you solve these labour market problems. It has to stop our proposals from being easy to get rid of. I also expect all of you to judge Chamber on all motions, but in between. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that financial barriers ensuring that care workers do not want to work more hours are removed;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a full-time bonus in the care sector,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-87]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-88]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u365	As far as the last motion is concerned, the Minister is only sending a legislative amendment to the Chamber, because if that is the barrier, then we can solve that problem perfectly here. We have been presenting our overhead plan since 2006. Always pissing off, year in, year out. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to persuade hundreds of thousands of care workers in overhead positions to carry out an executive task while retaining their salary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-89]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u366	In the written reply I read that the government claims that a full-time healthcare worker can be economically independent. Well, then I don't see any more barriers to giving the next motion judgment chamber. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that a full-time healthcare worker can be economically independent,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the starting salaries in care go up by lifting the first step,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to honour its own promise that the staff shortage in care would have been reduced to zero by 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-91]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-92]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-93]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u367	I have also been promised the next motion and never heard from it again. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that exit investigations are carried out among the hundreds of thousands of healthcare workers who leave care every year and to draw concrete proposals for improvement from them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-94]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u368	In addition to financial barriers, there are, of course, more barriers why people do not want to work more hours. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to investigate care workers to know what barriers there are to work more hours and remove them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that care administration is abolished, automated or digitised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to get 200,000 additional care workers by raising the part-time factor from 0.68 to 0.8 on voluntary terms,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-95]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-96]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-97]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u369	Mr. Chairman. Before the next government reinvents the wheel and goes back to researching unnecessary rules, I propose to take the project Regulatory Low Institutions from the period 2010-2012 off the shelf again at VWS. 680 rules were notified. 26 institutions have actually turned with fewer rules and with projects that they had submitted themselves. Never again what happened to it, therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to take and implement the results of the ERAI,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-98]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u370	It can all be so easy. Of course, we have been given an improvement plan when it comes to the funding of community care, but there is only one thing that can really solve the burden of accountability in community care. That's just one fare. I can't make it any easier. We know the common denominator. We know how many people there are around in care, how long about, how heavy and how much that becomes about every year. Those are the preconditions. The rest of you just have to go. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to significantly reduce the administrative burden of responsibility in home care by moving to a single rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-99]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u371	The same applies, of course, to nursing homes. There are ten care packages. There must be a requisition every time. I may have received a letter from the Minister: yes, but 40% are asking for another indication or something. Like that's nothing! All indications, indications, indications, all occupation therapy. You have to admit someone to the nursing home once. He's coming to check in and that's it! We all know what people we're talking about, don't we? [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to significantly reduce the administrative burden in long-term care and to proceed to a single rate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-100]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u372	This morning I was watching Good Morning Holland. There I saw Lucille Werner, candidate number ten of the CDA, beautiful poster girl. He was telling me what she's gonna do here in this house for disability care. Well, I would say'very welcome', but at the first debate I have with her, I would also ask her to look back on yesterday's debate with Mrs van den Berg on Valy's transport. The total Valys transport is EUR 64 million. It's really not the bomb on care, is it? A very small proportion of Valys users would like to use more than the maximum mileage, and yet this entire administrative burden is maintained. That's unfair. Someone with a disability shouldn't have to register where he goes when. We don't do that here either. Giving up your privacy is not equal. And if they want to make more miles, they should be able to do so at a rate equal to people without a limit. We got today it's today of the disabled, nice reports on ratification, which we've all been here for. But if we get to the bottom of it, then that registration just stays in place. Maybe it costs EUR 1 million, but that's what it does. If you're checking all those registrations of all those people, "Oh, did you go to your grandmother's and went to the House of Representatives once?', It doesn't even cost anything. It's control drive, here from The Hague! If we don't want to solve this, it's never gonna work out with that responsibility burden. That could put the CDA on the Chamber List, but something has to be done. Something must be done! People with disabilities who have good sense are busy with administration all day long. We can do something about it here. The CDA can do something about it. I'm really counting on the CDA on this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the registration of kilometres in Valys transport,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u373	Then the Quality Framework Nursing Care. Everyone in the House of Representatives agreed that staff shortages in nursing homes had to be resolved. There was also EUR 2.1 billion available, but the population grew more rapidly. But the Quality Framework Nursing Care indicates the minimum. That's about two employees out of eight residents during peak times. That's not a lard. The quality framework all shows variations. The great common denominator of the quality framework is about two employees out of eight residents during peak times. But in the most recent documents by Minister Van Ark we read that there is still a shortage of 31,700 people. So that minimum of minimum is not reached. The people who sit in the nursing homes have to walk on their toes and keep all the balls in the air, while we have all made a promise here. We promised that the shortage of staff in the nursing homes would be resolved. This minister, Minister De Jonge, is the most important. He went to the nursing homes. He took a picture with the people. He was our posterboy when it came to the investments in nursing care. And now the deficit in 2022 is 31,700. It's not solved. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to honour its own commitment to comply with the Quality Framework for Nursing Care in 2022 and to resolve staff shortages,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that, within one year, 20,000 extra nursing homes are realized for the 20,000 waiting for the nursing home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to have taken stock of the immense construction plan for our elderly housing before the end of this period of office, broken down by nursing homes, nursing homes and self-equipped accommodation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that a Minister for Older People's Housing is desirable in order to be able to start very quickly with the planning and construction of the hundreds of thousands of residences for older people needed within 20 years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-102]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-103]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-104]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-105]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u374	Mr. Chairman. The seven steps of care for the elderly: I have talked about this so many times. Older people are on average 82.5 years when they come into the picture for the first time for domestic help. After that, it's often fast. Nursing. Home care. Guidance. Then the nursing home, when it was still there. The nursing home. The palliative terminal care. Those seven steps from the moment it all starts must be regulated in one law, in one hand. It is now divided into so many laws and so many interests. Everyone throws their interests together over the fence and we've been looking at everything for years. I became a Member of Parliament in 2006. The Wmo was introduced in 2007. The 2015 Wmo took place seven years later. It is extremely difficult for the elderly themselves who become a bit beginning to dement, but for their partners who are also older, too. And for their children and now directors. They should be able to knock on the door of one law, as we had arranged for 2007. The only reason it was thrown overboard is that we had to look more like other European countries on paper, because we supposedly spend too much on our long-term care. But if you add up all the care costs, cure and care, your own payments and the whole bull's-eye, you get to 10% of GDP. Then we're just a midget. If you add up all the cost of care, we're just a midget in Europe, so there was no reason to break everything down. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to incorporate the seven steps of care for the elderly into a single law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u375	The same applies to life-long and life-wide disability care. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to incorporate life-long and life-wide disability care into a single law,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-107]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u376	Another point that I had been promised a while ago, but which I haven't heard about either. When that care robot Zora came, it all started to dawn on me a little bit that we here as a Chamber should indicate what we now find desirable and acceptable in the care when it comes to medical technology, but also artificial intelligence. At the time, I was promised by the VWS Minister that he would formulate a cabinet position. I didn't see it. That is why I am tabling a motion for a resolution on this matter. He also said he'd been to a scholarship. I believe in China. He said that there are some very scary things possible. So he was very willing at the time, but I never saw it again. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to formulate a cabinet position on medical-ethical issues relating to technological opportunities such as artificial intelligence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Jansen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-108]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u377	My final topic is child care. Parents of seriously ill children are mangled. They have a seriously ill child. They're learning to perform medical procedures. And when they do those medical procedures, their indication just goes down and then they just take off hours of care. That's very annoying. You wish those people wouldn't be constantly busy with accountability, administration and the fear of losing their hours. These children often die. You wish these people could be working on their kid instead of the government. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that medical-specialist actions carried out by the parents of seriously ill children cannot lead to a reduction in hours in the indication,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agema and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-109]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u378	I have made the last motion on this subject a little more comprehensive. It calls for a separate handout. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the rewritten hand-out of child care does not correspond to the wishes of parents who provide intensive care to their seriously ill child;]] [[Whereas these parents play a very large (directory) role in and in the care of their seriously ill child;]] [[Whereas parents are specially trained to perform medical-specialist activities;]] [[Considers that learned medical-specialist actions carried out by parents can never and never be regarded as parental, usual or informal care;]] [[Considers that a family is not suddenly self-reliant when parents themselves can perform medical-specialist activities or possess the necessary knowledge and skills of certain medical-specialist activities;]] [[Considers that child care is not written for this particular small group, very seriously ill children who are intensively cared for by their parents, often even in the final phase of their lives;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt these children from the rewritten child care hand-out and to provide a separate hand-to-hand care intensive child care for this small group of very seriously ill children, prepared by pediatricians and parents,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Agema and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-110]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u379	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to thank the directors for their reply, but I am, of course, extremely disappointed that our plans have actually been postponed again, no answers have been received or we have been dismissed for the umpteenth time. The corona crisis has happened to us and has, of course, revealed that we have set up our care system very vulnerable, especially with that regular care that has been scaled down. And we're far from there. But I'm so stunned that those glasses of health care scramble are still on and that's still standing policy. For 2020, the volume growth in hospitals is just 0%. And hospitals have to do it with the same budget by 2022. In the near future, in the next ten years, those hospitals will simply have to leave. I can't reach it with my hat. We live in a time when such huge challenges come to us. We need hundreds of thousands of extra people in care. I have argued: exploit the potential that is on the payroll. We need hundreds of thousands of places for the elderly to live in. We need hospital places, we need nursing home places, we need so much, and there's just no beginning of a plan. It's not in 20 years; it's in 20 years. I expect the government to see this urgency, to realize that they can no longer afford to defy all those opposition plans. So I really expect that every motion will simply be provided with a 'judgement chamber'. Yeah, I'm just expecting "judge room"! We all want to move forward, don't we? And if I don't get a "judge chamber" on every motion, Mr. President, then the government simply doesn't. Then the government doesn't want a solution, but they just want to tear it down. That was my heart cry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u380	Thank you, Mrs Agema. Thank you. Yes, you have three minutes and three seconds left. I now give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD. You can say how many minutes you want, but otherwise you can just watch and... No problem. Yeah, we're here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u381	I won't use all the 88 minutes we have left, I won't do that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u382	Eighty-six minutes left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u383	Mr President, I will not do that to myself, but especially to you. What we shouldn't do to each other over the next few years is lose us in discussions about the healthcare system. I would like to call on all colleagues to do so. Even if we found each other in a different system, you'd be lost for years to get that organized. I don't think we can afford that time. It is a waste of time and especially of energy. That energy is better invested in working together, in smart care, in new solutions, in digitalisation. Thank you for the commitment of the Minister for Medical Care that in the first quarter she will come up with a letter on how she is going to give it further hands and feet, which is necessary for that purpose. I call on the Minister to make this as concrete as possible so that it is as tangible as possible. Unfortunately, as I said in the first term, I often come across in the care that the good examples from one side of the country are not being taken over by the other side of the country and that the wheel is being reinvented. The more practical and manageable we make the good examples, to show what is needed and what can be done, the better it is. Mr. Chairman. Whatever it takes is the transition to value-driven care, to make sure that we know what works and what doesn't. I asked the Minister about Regie on registers, to make visible what treatments and medications do, and certainly new medications. There we can run a bit faster to make visible what the outcome and quality is for the patient. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, given the rapid development of innovative medicines, there is a growing need to continue to monitor the effectiveness and (up-to-date) effects of (new) medicines in practice;]] [[noting that from the care field the movement has been made to keep track of effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and (adverse) effects in practice through patient and disease registrations;]] [[Considering that the Healthcare Institute started the project Regie op Registers in 2019, which should lead to a clear framework for recording and reporting data on the use of expensive medicinal products in practice, including the clinical and relevant outcomes of the treatment for the patient;]] [[Considering that the NZa advised the Minister in May 2020 to accelerate this trajectory, given the annual increase in expenditure on new medicines and the increasing call for justification of manufacturers' demand prices;]] [[Considering that the Action Plan Collaborating sets out appropriate concerns that there is still little outcome information available to be used for joint decision-making, for learning and improvement, and for organising and buying care and that acceleration is needed;]] [[Calls on the Government to analyse in the short term what is needed to speed up the Regie project on Registers so that the registry landscape can contribute to the appropriate use of medicinal products, and to inform the Court of Justice of this at the beginning of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-111]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u384	Mr. Chairman. In my first term I also mentioned secondary use of data and data sharing. I was very pleased to read yesterday that our hospitals are going to share the data of intensive care with each other, to gain more and better insight and to learn more from the analysis of that data about what treatment with patients on ic does. That's absolute profit. And yet I hear from too many researchers, so still the phase for analysing treatments, that not all data in the Netherlands are easily accessible and usable. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that new research and health services are facilitated and accelerated by combining medical data with other data within clear rules;]] [[noting that the Cabinet supports the development of secondary data usage and algorithms, as it can improve the quality of (personalised) care for the patient;]] [[noting that other European countries, such as Finland, have laid down rules of play in a law on secondary use of health data (within the European privacy rules, so that would be within the GDPR);]] [[Whereas secondary use of data is essential for the development of innovative, ground-breaking medical applications within, for example, genomics or genetics;]] [[Considering that, in order to achieve this, it is necessary to establish international or European standards that facilitate the interoperability of data and resolve privacy and ethical problems and thereby increase public confidence in the careful handling of medical data;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether a legal or policy adjustment is necessary for the re-use of data for health purposes;]] [[calls on the Government also to examine whether requirements can be made at European level for access to information from source systems for secondary use according to standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-112]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u386	Mrs Bergkamp has a question about one of your motions, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u387	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman mentioned medical-ethical problems and privacy problems. Honestly, I don't really have a picture of that. In order to make a proper assessment of the motion, I would like an explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u388	When using data, the search for a balance between the free and complete availability of data and the patient's interest in handling the patient's data in a careful way. In my first term, I also said that I have the feeling, the impression, that this balance in the Netherlands is now a bit off to the patient's privacy element. I'm not alone in that; of course I get that from a lot of people, and certainly from researchers and scientists. No matter how important that element is, I share it with you, with D66, and with others in this Chamber, it is quite possible to anonymize and disconnect data from the patient, while the medical data can simply be used to do research with it. I think it's weird and special and that Dutch scientists now have to learn about data abroad, because they can't make the Dutch data available because they're too encrypted, behind a wall and aren't accessible to research. I regret that. I think we can deal with that differently. Countries like Finland, which I have just referred to in my motion, have special regulations for this, so that these data are simply accessible and usable. And that's profit, for researchers, but that's ultimately profit for care and therefore profit for patients.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u389	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD. You're making up the remaining 80 minutes? Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u390	I'm always short, but of course this is a challenge. That's why I brought a book. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the accessibility, quality and affordability of care for the elderly will be under pressure in the future, given the projections for 2040;]] [[Considering the need to involve several ministries and (field) parties in resolving this problem;]] [[Whereas the Committee on the Future has advised elderly people living at home to come forward with a long-term vision of care for the elderly;]] [[believes that care for the elderly should be accessible, affordable and high quality;]] [[Calls on the Government to outline in a plan of action by the first quarter of 2021 at the latest how to achieve a broad long-term vision of care for the elderly, involving all relevant ministries and (field) parties in the dialogue on future choices for the organisation of care for the elderly, in order to start making this vision in 2021 and to link a communication strategy to that end in order to address widely the importance of this issue and to collect and share the results of the dialogue;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-113]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u391	Mr. Chairman. I shall look back at today's debate with the three directors. I would like to thank all three for their reply. I would also like to thank those behind the scenes who have once again done a great deal of work, including last night. I would like to return to three of the points we have raised, but first of all I would like to say that I am surprised at the way in which we deal with a budget in this Chamber. It's really about billions, but we're all going back to our own stick horses. If you look at the basics of the pieces we've had, you can see that we're actually talking very little about what amounts are in which jars. Why wouldn't we be able to put a slide in there? But it's a tradition here in the house, so I guess that won't change for a while. Then specifically on the content. I am pleased that the Minister has explicitly addressed people with disabilities. I would like to draw attention to sports by people with disabilities, including colleagues. The Secretary of State rightly pointed out that sports are also extremely important for people with a physical and mental challenge. I hope that this will continue to receive real attention in this Chamber over the next few years, because it has tremendously positive returns. I would also point out that the Olympic Games will take place in the coming year, as will the Paralympic Games. I would like us to pay close attention to this from this house as well. Pgb 2.0. We've all seen the written answer. The cabinet did not return to that in its term. It remains, as far as I am concerned and as far as we are concerned, a very sensitive point. I really hope for a concreteisation of the pgb 2.0 in 2021. I know other colleagues are working on this. Please allow this realization to take place next year, as has now been promised in writing. So we can hold the rulers to that. Then there's the nursing care, the advice of the Economic and Social Council. I have noted a commitment from the Minister on a numerical basis supporting part-time carers and all the hours and times involved. I think that will be a huge challenge in the coming years. I hope we pay attention to that. Mr. Chairman. Thank you again, also for chairing this long session. I have some speaking time left, but I will not use it entirely. Good luck to all of you with this important policy area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u392	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for answering all the questions. I think it was a good debate. There are still a few questions open, but I think it's part of our business. I will continue to work on this in the coming months, especially towards the elections. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the wage adjustment in the WWS budget 2021 has been reduced by EUR 444.5 million and that this reduces the scope for improving wages in care, which with rising pension contributions may even lead to loss of purchasing power for healthcare providers;]] [[Whereas some health care providers make very little money and the pay gap within care is large;]] [[Whereas new collective agreements will be concluded in the care sector in the coming year;]] [[calls on the Government to conclude a care agreement with the trade unions, employers and financiers of care to improve low wages and reduce the pay gap, and to create additional financial space for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has the ambition to be less dependent on other continents when it comes to the production of medicines;]] [[noting that, due to the one-sided focus on price in procurement, European drug manufacturers are moving their activities to countries outside Europe with low sustainability standards and production costs;]] [[Whereas the availability of appropriate medications is crucial for the treatment of patients;]] [[Whereas pharmaceutical manufacturers in third countries such as China and India now have an advantage because they do not have to meet EU sustainability requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to provide guidance on strengthening security of supply and to examine whether procurement criteria can be based on production location, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Green Deal is a declaration of intent and does not contain binding agreements;]] [[noting that it is not possible to monitor the effects of the Green Deal;]] [[calls on the Government to review the Green Deal as an instrument and to propose a periodic monitor to monitor the efforts and results of the healthcare sector on the four themes mentioned in the Green Deal 2.0 without increasing the administrative burden on healthcare professionals, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-114]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-115]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-116]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u394	The final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transition for women is still difficult to discuss, both in the private sphere and at work;]] [[noting that taboo women often themselves do not recognise their complaints;]] [[Considering that the taboo on the workplace has a much greater risk of absenteeism for women in the transition;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how it can contribute to breaking the taboo on the transition and increasing knowledge about the transition of women themselves;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the social partners, to assess the impact of the taboo on the labour market and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-117]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the officials of VWS very much. I know what it's like to work through that at night. It's, especially now, in this time, of course weird that you have to do that at home. Thank you very much for that. Finally, as a committee, I should like to compliment us, because I think we have had a very sharp debate, but have also laughed a lot. So I'd like to label ourselves the nicest committee in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u396	I would certainly like to thank all those colleagues with whom we are doing this together for the last time. We're gonna miss you all so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u397	I think we're done with a speech like that! Then we can go straight home! Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema, also on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. And the VWS committee. That is what you are experiencing, Mrs Agema, this kind of compliments to the committee!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u398	The later it gets, the more fun it gets. For my part, too, thank you for answering the questions, including to all those people who do so behind the scenes. I have a few comments to make. I am pleased with the response to the program Now Not Pregnant. I really make that answer out that there is a perspective on a good follow-up. I'm glad. I am disappointed by the response to my amendment on night care. I find it really hard to distinguish between homeless people and homeless people, especially in this complicated health crisis. I think that nightcare should be open if necessary, that you should not look at the exact temperature or the exact state of the lockdown in the country. I am also really looking at some of the coalition parties, because I hope they will be compassionate when they vote on the amendment. I also feel some disappointment about the response to the amendment on additional funding for the Euthanasia Expertise Centre. The problem is complicated. I realized that, too. It's big there, too. But there's really no need to investigate what's needed there right now. That is what the center itself indicates and that is what the ggz itself indicates. An additional budget for training in this area would be very helpful. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there is significantly more demand for training places for gz psychologists for 2021 than the number of places currently available;]] [[Considering that a recent interim estimate of the Capacity Body recommends 45 additional training places for gz psychologists from 2022;]] [[Considering the important role played by social psychologists in many sectors, both in mental health care and in care for the elderly, where demand for care is increasing;]] [[Whereas this calls for additional EZ psychologists who should also be available as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government not to provide 45 additional training places for gz psychologists in 2022 but already in 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-118]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u399	Then there's a second motion. It's about research. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that much important medical research has been delayed by the corona crisis;]] [[noting that these delays may lead to additional costs and that investigations may not be completed;]] [[noting that many medical research is carried out through the programmes at ZonMw, and that ZonMw has a programme reserve of EUR 2 million to be used for delay;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely the financial problems arising from the corona crisis in medical research,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-119]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u400	Finally, I would like to use my second term for a number of observations, after having followed this budget for a number of years. I do not have any further questions, but I would like to make a number of points. I have been allowed to be the rapporteur, both in terms of accountability and in terms of the budget. In both cases, I have also called for attention to be paid to the many action programmes of the Cabinet. I also asked the question: what can we learn from this approach? The conclusions drawn by the rulers in their letter of 19 November give me hope. I think it is very important to take initiatives in The Hague, whether they come from the cabinet or from the Chamber; that does not matter, and no matter how often referred to as 'the field'. Outside The Hague, in that stubborn practice, there is the real knowledge about what works and what doesn't work. And there's one more thing. Not everything that matters is measurable. In fact, I don't think the most important things in life are measurable. Mr Van der Staaij mentioned yesterday as an example the concept of 'quality of care'. That is one of those terms that we use very often here, but that is not a measurable output to be realized. Care that has real quality, that takes place between people, where there is sincere attention. And you can't always measure that. I would also like to mention once again how much care is provided by people who do not wear white coats. That's what I've seen during all kinds of work visits. Our debates here are often dominated by medicines, by hospitals and by doctors and nurses. And that's not wrong, even given the whole corona crisis. But care is also given with attention in home care, in social care, in ggz and in disability care. Let us not forget these sectors here. Finally, I would like to support public health services, the health services. They've suddenly become visible in the corona crisis. When it really came to it, they actually didn't have enough capacity to do their job properly. But also outside of corona time, the GGDs play a crucial role when it comes to public health. Once again, I have done so more often for much more attention from the GGDs to young people. There are plenty of subjects that youth doctors and youth nurses could discuss with young people. Think about the vaccination rate. Think of information on drugs. Think about sexual health and mental health. I think it would be wise if, in a subsequent cabinet period, there were just a national basic funding for the GGDs and they were not dependent on municipal budgets and often also municipal cuts. 'Cause, you know, I started to avoid my first term too, and that's better than curing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u401	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you very much for the answers given by the rulers and, therefore, thank you to all those who have taken care of this at the Ministry. That's a lot of work. Thank you also for supporting my amendments. One is about promoting regional cooperation. I submitted this together with Mrs Dik-Faber. Another amendment concerns the further promotion of digitalisation, including through the National eHealth Living Lab and the OZO Connecting Care. Mr. Veldman co-signed it. I myself have a few motions and I have signed a few with them, among others one from Mr. Veldman to promote the learning culture that I have often argued for. Another concerns the point that 9 November was discussed in general consultation, namely: it should not be the case that our researchers use American data because they cannot be accessed here in the Netherlands. But, of course, there must be good legislation for that, preferably at European level. Mr. Chairman. Today is the International Day for People with Disabilities. I have a motion on that. Thank you for the warm words of the Minister. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands is the only country in Western Europe that has not yet ratified the optional protocol of the UN Disability Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to indicate, by 17 March 2021, what further steps need to be taken to ratify,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van den Berg and Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-120]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u403	My name is under this motion, but Mrs Van den Berg did not mention my name.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u404	That's because a new print was made. Excuse me. Mrs Bergkamp is absolutely right about that. Thank you. Mrs Bergkamp asked questions about it last Thursday, I understood. Mr President, my second point. I recently asked questions about the decision-making at the Ommelander Hospital in Scheemda and about the general practitioners' post in Venray, but also about the Dienstapotheek Eemland in Amersfoort. We have just discussed in detail the need for participation in legislation and regulation, including of chain partners and the region, when there are changes in acute care. I was actually completely surprised that the service pharmacy was not covered by that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of changes in the offer of acute care, the Van den Berg motion consults municipalities and healthcare providers in good time (29247, No. 320) was adopted unanimously;]] [[Considers that this concerns the provision of all acute care, including service pharmacists providing pharmaceutical care in the evening, night and Sunday;]] [[noting, however, that the Minister states that these service dispensaries do not now fall within the scope of the general administrative measure of acute concern;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt this in the general measure of governance, so that also for the adjustment of the supply of pharmaceutical care in ANZ-hours, this should be allowed only after care providers in the chain have been consulted in a timely manner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-121]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u405	Mr. Chairman. I am very pleased with the Minister's commitment to my questions on general care. We also supported Mrs Bergkamp's motion on extending training places. I am pleased that the Minister is talking to the physician assistants' trade association, NAPA, and that the Minister is going to talk to the National General Medical Association about how best to arrange regional support for practitioners. Mr President, yesterday I brought some drops and also a nice full colour print of our action plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u406	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u407	I completely forgot about it and I'd like to hand it over. I asked all the questions, so it wasn't that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u408	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. Yeah, that happens. I now give the floor to Mr Peters on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course I agree with all the compliments that have been made to everyone, including ourselves, yes, that's something. I also have a few motions. I even co-signed one of Mr Henk van Gerven's, and that's only so I can say at home "I was there when Mr Henk van Gerven passed a motion unanimously through the Chamber." He doesn't get that chance much anymore, so here's the deal. I have three of my own. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a person is not an individual but a person in relation to other persons;]] [[noting that a significant number of older people, now that the children are out of the house, live in a relatively overly large rental house;]] [[noting that a number of older people are willing to move to a smaller, cheaper rental house, but that these are also scarce;]] [[noting that not every older person is able to buy a property;]] [[noting that parents who have the opportunity to do so sometimes help their children to start their housing and that there are arrangements for this;]] [[noting that there are no arrangements for children who want to help their parents in housing;]] [[calls on the Government to present the issue, inform the Court thereof and then to carry out a review of possible arrangements or solutions and send them to the Court before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are still signs of patients with a Wlz indication for which it is not self-evident that medical-generalistic care is available to them in the region 24 hours a day;]] [[noting that the NZa advises on the positioning of medical-generalistic care that providers and professional groups ensure, through cooperation agreements, that the chain of medical-generalistic care is aligned;]] [[having noted that there has recently been a covenant between the parties for medical and generalist care in disability care, which has thus been secured for this group of patients;]] [[Considers that, in line with the NZa's opinion, such cooperation arrangements are also necessary and desirable for patients in care for the elderly;]] [[calls on the Government, following the agreement concluded in disability care, to also establish cooperation arrangements with professional groups, industry associations and system parties aimed at 24-hour availability and accessibility of medical-generalistic care for patients in care for the elderly, and to inform the Chamber of progress and outcome by 1 March 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Terpstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-122]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Peters. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-123]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u410	I don't think I'm going to turn the previous motion into a press release, but it's still important. This one might, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a person is not an individual but a person in relation to other persons;]] [[noting that the community is largely centred on neighbourhood or citizen initiatives;]] [[noting that municipalities would like to support some local or citizen initiatives, but that the procurement rules are regularly interpreted in such a way that these initiatives would be subject to tendering;]] [[noting furthermore that the right to grant grants could be interpreted in such a way that support to neighbourhood or citizens' initiatives would be undesirable public support to entrepreneurs;]] [[considers that citizens' initiatives should not be an entrepreneur at all within the meaning of the procurement and grant rules;]] [[calls on the government to counter the economicisation of citizens' initiatives,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Peters and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-124]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u411	We have ten minutes left, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u412	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u413	Something had gone wrong with the time management within the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u414	Something went wrong, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u415	Okay, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Backpay Payment Scheme does not apply to widows of civil servants or military personnel who were employed with the Dutch-Indian Government at the time of the Japanese occupation and were not paid a full or full salary over the period of Japanese occupation;]] [[Whereas it would be desirable to introduce a financial arrangement for this group;]] [[asks the Cabinet to examine whether such a financial arrangement is feasible and feasible and, if so, how it can be designed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Gerven, Kerstens, Pia Dijkstra, Renkema, Laan-Geselschap, Dik-Faber, Van der Staaij, Sazias, Kuzu, Van Esch, Peters and Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u416	The motion is supported more than enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u417	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Noting that the government adopted the Van Gerven-Van den Berg motion (29477 No. 630) has been requested to examine the conditions under which a revolver non-commercial research fund can be established;]] [[Considering the importance of public drug research;]] [[calls on the government to allocate funds for 100% public investigations within the FAST initiative,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to draw up proposals to accommodate all medical specialists as employed persons,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that physiotherapy belongs in the basic package of health insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[states that dental care for adults belongs in the basic package of health insurance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to eliminate the need for supplementary insurance by including medically necessary care in the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, contrary to what the chairman of the Zorginstituut Nederland says, deletion from the basic package is not a party;]] [[states that not the Zorginstituut Nederland but the Parliament has the final say on the content of the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-126]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-127]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-128]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-129]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-130]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-131]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u418	Mr. Chairman. It's possible: so many motions within two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u419	You have 22 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u420	Even I can do it! I would like to thank all of you for your cooperation in these two days. It's been a pleasure. I'm also counting on the cabinet's "judgement chamber." Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u421	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. Historical motions, thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u422	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers and their support. Yesterday I saw a tweet in which they paid attention to their supporters, who were mainly at home working. I hope they can take some rest with the Christmas trees, because we need them very much. We're not here yet when it comes to corona. Mr. Chairman. I have a few more questions and yet a number of motions that I may table on behalf of my colleagues. I have a question for the Minister on the contour note. It is so important that it is not just a paper exercise, but that the contour note also thinks about what makes the patient or the human being better. It would be so nice if that was the starting point of such a contour note and that people think with every measure: yes, damn it, that makes me better. So I hope that the contour note can take that form. I also have a question about sexual health. For detecting and reducing the number of STDs, it is important to test quickly and easily. I understood from the coordinating GGD regions that the Complementary Sexual Health Care Scheme is still structurally inadequate and that there are long waiting lists, but there are also some concerns about the distribution model. There are certain regions, for example Utrecht, that really don't come true. So my question to the Secretary of State is whether he wants to see what this distribution model is like and if he can inform the Chamber about it. Mr. Chairman. I have one more question about the general practitioners. I'll file a motion in a minute. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to a fine example of an initiative. That's the Medibus. This is an initiative in Friesland of the Fryske Marren, of the municipality of Sluis and the municipality of Hollands Kroon. Because there is also a shortage, there is a bus driving around in the countryside. I thought it was a good example. Is the Minister prepared to make contact with that initiative and see if that would be a possible solution? Mr. Chairman. I have another question about intensive child care. I don't want to sit in the chair of the professionals. I don't think we ever do that as a room. But I can see there's still some brewing. As far as support is concerned, I should like to ask the Minister whether he can objectively see with a mediator what exactly is going on and whether that can be smoothed out. I'd like that. We're gonna get another VAO on that. Mr. Chairman. Then I have a few more motions. I had prepared a motion on medical cannabis, but I do not submit it because the Minister has clearly indicated that she will return to it in the spring. The motion called for the benefits of the export of medicinal cannabis to benefit from research into, among other things, medicinal cannabis. I'll wait for that. That saves another motion. Then I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Euthanasia Expertise Centre has developed a range of training courses for doctors to better equip them with (complex) euthanasia requests;]] [[Whereas, in response to the study of Psychiatric patients at the Euthanasie Expertise Centre, the Cabinet proposes to make greater use of the Centre of Expertise in the provision of (re) training and guidance;]] [[noting that the further development and dissemination of such training and guidance by the Euthanasia Centre of Expertise resulting from this research and the adopted motion for a resolution Laan-Geselschap et al. (35300-XVI, No. 39), now financed from the Centre's own resources;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine whether and, if so, what (financial) support to the Euthanasia Expertise Centre is desirable to carry out these tasks and to inform the Court of Justice in the first quarter 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u423	Mrs Ellemeet, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u424	A brief comment. You can never examine enough. I understand that, but I would like to point out here that the colleagues in the AO where this was discussed were already more determined about the need. I just wanted to say for a moment that I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u425	I wasn't at the AO, so all I can do is nod yes or something. So I'm just gonna be like this because I wasn't there myself. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion. It is about compensation for chronic sick and disabled people and compensation for their own risks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Law on Compensation for the chronically ill and disabled (Wtcg) and Compensation for Own Risk (Cer) were abolished as of 1 January 2014 due to its inefficient and ineffective effect;]] [[having noted that EUR 268 million was subsequently added to the Municipal Fund to provide more targeted financial support to this target group in the event of chronic illness or disability;]] [[noting that the government has agreed with municipalities on intensive monitoring of the results and that the functioning of the tax regime would be "in due course" but has not yet shared an evaluation with the Chamber;]] [[Calls on the Government to evaluate the abolition of the Wtcg and the Cer and to explicitly indicate whether the desired change from unfocused automatic compensation to customisation tailored to the personal situation of the citizen, and to inform the Chamber about it in spring 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u426	Mr. Chairman. It is important to point out that it really is a legal assessment rather than so much on other subjects. It really is an evaluation: is this scheme working as we have assessed it and meant it? Mr. Chairman. Yet also a motion on the medical cannabis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are several patient groups in the Netherlands that benefit from the use of medicinal cannabis but are not reimbursed for this medicinal cannabis, because its effects have not yet been scientifically demonstrated;]] [[calls on the Government, in parallel with the ongoing fundamental research, to launch a second study on the effects of specific preparations in specific patient groups, such as children with epilepsy and other groups mentioned in previous explorations on this subject,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u427	Mrs Sazias, you also have a short question about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u428	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I think this is a very good motion, because I know that cancer patients benefit greatly from it. I would therefore ask Mrs Bergkamp if I could co-sign the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u429	Sure. I'd love to, Mr. Chairman. It is important to point out that I have also tabled a few motions on this subject in the previous budget. It is really important now to see if what is delivered through the pharmacies actually works. I am thinking, for example, of the Transvaal Pharmacy. Well, it would be very nice and I welcome the support of Mrs Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u430	If you add Mrs. Sazias' name right away, it will save you...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u431	I will, Mr. Chairman, with thanks. Mr President, then there are the general practitioners' training spots. That should be done in a motion, because it cannot be done in an amendment. Premier-funded, so that's why. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas every Dutch citizen deserves high-quality basic care and therefore the general practitioner should be given more time and space per patient;]] [[Whereas, however, there is a shortage of general practitioners in several regions, particularly in shrinking areas, and research shows that deficits will increase everywhere in the coming years unless we do more to prevent this;]] [[Considering that the Capacity Body has therefore recommended a substantial increase in the number of training places for general practitioners in the coming years, but that far fewer places have been made available for 2021 than the Minister had been advised;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that in 2021 20 additional doctors can start GP training, with special attention to the regions where the need is highest, and to make the necessary financial contribution for the next three years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-136]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u432	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then there's a motion on homogeneous therapy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the motion for a resolution of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, (28345, No. 219) research has been carried out into the extent to which young people and vulnerable persons in the Netherlands are exposed to homogeneous and conversion therapy;]] [[Whereas, by means of the Yeşilgöz-Zegerius motion (30420, No. 311) argued for the punishment of homogeneous or conversion therapy;]] [[noting that the first part of the study has been completed and concluding that homogeneous or conversion therapy occurs in the Netherlands, resulting in serious psychological and/or physical damage;]] [[Considering that by the end of June 2020 the second part of the study would provide possible directions for policy action;]] [[Invites the Government to come forward with a response to the investigation to provide guidance by January 2021 at the latest:]] [[the provision of homogeneous or conversion therapy to minors and other vulnerable persons and the recruitment or public provision of homogeneous or conversion therapy are punishable;]] [[it is made clear where persons who have become victims of homogeneous or conversion therapy can report this, thereby providing assistance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp, Mr El Yassini, Mr Van den Hul and Mr Özütok. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-137]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u433	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was thinking of setting the deadline at the end of this year, but I also realize that this is an important issue for the cabinet and that it should therefore be discussed. That's why I extended the date in the motion a little bit. But my hope is to get a response sooner. We know this happens, and we know this is harmful. If these leaders represent public health, then I really hope that they can take a step. I'm counting on them. Mr. Chairman. Then a motion on more congruent regional divisions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that many of the policy intentions of the VWS budget will be taken up at regional level;]] [[noting that administrative regional breakdowns in the care sector are very fragmented in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that regional cooperation is more effective and can be more democratically legitimised if regions of different policy areas are congruent;]] [[invites the Government to conduct independent research, taking into account practical experience, towards more effective and consistent administrative regional classification in order to reach regional cooperation agreements in the care sector, to make proposals on how this can be achieved, so that they can be transmitted to the Chamber, and to send these proposals to the Chamber by mid 2021 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bergkamp, Mr Raemakers and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-138]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u434	Why am I filing this motion? Well, I indicated during the previous budget: no matter what different regional classifications we have in the Netherlands, from the ggz to the health offices.................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why it seems very good to me to see independently whether much more congruence can be achieved. Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, also for chairing. I would like to thank my fellow Members. I think we still have some general discussions. It is nice to be able to do this on behalf of my colleague Mrs Diertens. And it is also very nice to be able to do this on behalf of Mr Raemakers, who is unfortunately ill. Maybe he's watching, and I wish him well. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u435	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the directors for the answers, including the written answers. These issues will undoubtedly come back to a number of general discussions that we will have in the coming months. Thanks for the answers, but that doesn't mean I'm confident. I have motions on a number of subjects and I would like to return to a number of other subjects. We have heard Minister De Jonge talk about the importance of cooperation and his intention to make this a guiding principle in healthcare, if I may translate it so freely. I had hoped very much for an effect from his colleague, Mr Van Ark, but unfortunately she did not speak about it. It will then be a new round, new opportunities, because I do not think we can expect so much from this cabinet in this area. But I do have a motion on that, so maybe we can get that judgment Chamber and be executed, then we'll get it over with. I would like to say to Mr Veldman that there is no need for a change in the system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the population survey shows that around 6,500 women each year have breast cancer;]] [[Whereas staff shortages have led to a decision to extend screening, which is now taking place every two years, to every three years;]] [[Whereas it is vital that these women with breast cancer are diagnosed as soon as possible and that an additional year between screenings may have serious consequences for the course of disease and may even be fatal;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 March 2021 how the two-year period can continue, taking into account solutions to the shortage of medical imaging and radiation experts, including other options such as screening in hospitals, and making additional funding available where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Sazias, Mr Jansen, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Diertens, Mr Veldman, Mr Van Esch, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van den Berg, Mr Kuzu, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-139]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u437	She's right there!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u438	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u439	No, I'm wrong. She's joining us, of course. It was her colleague Jansen who was already there, Mr. Chairman. But her desire to stand by is a sign. I think the Secretary of State has really understood how important that is to this Chamber as a whole. You have our support for all conceivable solutions. I think that's how you should interpret it. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion on changes within the system. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas during the first wave of the corona pandemic it was possible to cooperate intensively within the current system, reduce administrative burdens, put away competition and thereby provide optimal care;]] [[calls on the Government to send the Chamber an inventory of what could and should remain during the pandemic and what is needed for it, the responsibility and role of health insurance companies in this process, and how more scope for cooperation, multi-annual agreements and the cessation of competition can be achieved by 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-140]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u440	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current locally-focused organisation of GGDs should continue to exist, but municipalities can cut down on public health tasks;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the GGD GHOR and VNG, to draw up a proposal for a legal task package for GGDs and to send it to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-141]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u441	The motion on the GGDs aims to strengthen the position of the GGDs vis-à-vis the municipalities and is also an expression of appreciation for the work of the GGDs. We've talked a lot about them over the past few months when it comes to testing and now about vaccination. I would like to remind everyone that we have all been at the GGD as a little boy or a little girl and that we can always go there for problems. It seems important to me to strengthen their position while at the same time maintaining that embedding in the city and the region, because that makes it possible for them to provide optimal public care. Mr President, my final motion. It is also about the population survey breast cancer and has a slightly different perspective, but I would like to say that it is also very important. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas scientific research has shown that leaking or ruptured breast implants can lead to serious consequences for the health of a woman;]] [[Calls on the Government to include a clear warning on the relevant websites and in the text of the new public leaflet for the population survey on the possible consequences of ruptured or leaked breast implants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-142]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u442	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u443	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens, also on behalf of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u444	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin with my motions, then I can conclude with the thanks. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Ombudsman has found on several occasions that access to care for vulnerable people is inadequate;]] [[believes that access is particularly important for vulnerable people;]] [[calls on the Government to make additional efforts or to intensify the current efforts to improve such access and to inform the Court of Justice and its impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is spending a great deal of money on a "work guarantee scheme" to prevent unemployment of people who lose their jobs due to the corona crisis by subsidising arrangements that allow them to work in a sector where there is work;]] [[noting that the care is such a sector;]] [[noting that this thus offers opportunities for the concern to address the problem of reducing their own staff shortages and providing prospects for those who may otherwise become unemployed;]] [[invites the Cabinet to submit as soon as possible a plan to qualify for the scheme;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-143]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-144]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u445	I tabled the next motion together with Mrs Ellemeet for the summer. At that time, the reaction of the VWS Minister was: my colleague for Medical Care is working on this; hold the motion for a resolution for a moment. We did. We now retable the motion, because the signals from the field are still not undivided positive. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the view that the specialist on old age medicine is of great added value in the district is widely supported;]] [[Whereas there is also an interest in (more) being active in the district from specialists in the field of old age medicine;]] [[noting that various purchasing conditions do not provide sufficient incentives for development, so that, for example, the specialist in old-age medicine is hardly able to work as a self-employed professional in the district;]] [[whereas specialists are threatening to discourage and we cannot afford to discourage old-age medicine;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the specialist in the care of the elderly is able to work in the neighbourhood in a real and rapid manner in various forms of organisation, including as an independent professional;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a number of legislative initiatives announced to tackle fraud and abuse in health care more firmly have been delayed;]] [[Considering, however, that additional steps in this area are highly desirable, also because the social outrage in the case of fraud and abuse in the care sector is high;]] [[calls on the government to make an effort to submit the law on sound management in the care sector (Wibz) during this period of office,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-145]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-146]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u446	The next motion is about intensive child care. The Minister was optimistic a few weeks ago that parents' unrest would be removed in the short term. That didn't happen. On the contrary, my phone is glowing. Hence this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that parents who take care of their seriously ill child at home have been given a great deal of concern as a result of a new approach by health insurers, the way in which a new "handicapped person" has been created and its content;]] [[Whereas this has an impact on the care of the children concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to appoint, in the short term, a mediator to reach a mutually agreed solution for intensive child care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-147]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u447	I also heard Mrs Bergkamp say something about a mediator in her contribution, so if she wants, I will put her name under it with love and pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u448	You'll do it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u449	The last motion relates to the first interruption I wanted to make when the Minister for Medical Care spoke, but I was a little late getting off the ground. She was thinking about the International Day for People with Disabilities today. She reminded us that almost five years ago the UN Disability Convention was signed. There's one more thing. That is the Optional Protocol which gives people with disabilities the right to complain if the government does not comply with that convention. As Mrs van den Berg said, all Western European countries have signed it, the Netherlands have not yet signed it. She actually asks the Minister to google what steps are still needed. I'm just asking you to take that last step. That's what I'll do with the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the UN Disability Convention has been ratified and must therefore be complied with;]] [[Considers that the possibility of lodging a complaint if the government fails to do so makes sense if the implementation of the UN Disability Convention is taken seriously;]] [[noting that the Netherlands is the only country in Western Europe that has not yet ratified the Optional Protocol annexed to that Convention;]] [[calls on the Government to ratify the Optional Protocol before 1 April 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-148]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u450	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers and the Secretary of State for the answers and also all the officials who worked on this at home until very late in the night behind the scenes of their computer. Thank you very much for that. It's a huge job, but we did it again. I have two comments and two motions for resolutions. First of all, a comment about control in the care sector. I heard warm words from the Minister of Medical Care. I'm so happy about that. My group is eagerly looking forward to the letter that we will probably receive in January on whether or not to anchor a nurse's advisory board and other ways of better anchoring control in care. I really think it will improve our care and we can keep people for care. My second comment concerns centering pregnancy. Thank you for the Minister's commitment to discuss the fees for centering pregnancy with the Dutch Healthcare Authority. It really is a special form of care that comes with a lot of attention. It is good if there is special attention to it, so thank you for that. I hope the Minister will inform the Chamber of the results. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that over the next ten years, the number of people who die annually will increase by 14% as a result of ageing;]] [[Considering that despite the increasing number of euthanasia cases, the vast majority of people in the Netherlands die without intervention;]] [[Whereas in Dutch society there is a great deal of ignorance about dying, and doctors sometimes struggle with dying processes because patients and their families sometimes ask for something other than what doctors consider medically useful;]] [[calls on the government to pay attention in all expressions to a "normal deathbed" and the possibilities of palliative care;]] [[calls on the Government also to promote the sharing of knowledge of the National Expertise Centre Die with GPs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-149]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u451	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Healthcare Institute applies, inter alia, the criterion of necessity in determining whether care is admitted to the basic package and that this criterion takes into account the context of care, including the severity of the condition, the impact on one's social functioning and the scope of the responsibility of society;]] [[having noted that, among other things, in the Advisory Committee on Package Management, it is possible to hear such arguments through citizen consultation;]] [[noting that representatives of patient groups have been able to find this way of participation, but citizens have not yet made use of it;]] [[Whereas this may indicate too high thresholds for public participation in the Healthcare Institute;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Healthcare Institute, to identify ways to reduce the thresholds for public participation at the Healthcare Institute, and to inform the Chamber of Health before the summer of 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-150]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u452	Mr. Chairman. As I said with some melancholy, this was my last contribution to budgetary treatment. Many thanks to all my colleagues in this fantastic committee. We've been able to achieve beautiful things together. We're not here yet, in the middle of corona time. This is a violent period, especially for the people in care and the people who are sick. Lots of good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u453	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Esch on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u454	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Also on behalf of the Party for Animals, thank you very much for your answer and certainly also for that very comprehensive written reply. That's very nice. I brought three motions. Two of them are actually the result of that written reply. In the time of my interruptions, I just didn't have time to ask for clarification. My first motion is to begin briefly with a quote from the former chairman of the Van Dijk Committee. "We're lucky there hasn't been a major outbreak since Q fever. But you can't wait for that. Corona shows: once it comes, everyone is too late. You have to be prepared, and we're not." That is why the next motion, which is about the legal instruments. I have spoken about this in my first term, but I think that the answer to this question has disappeared in the written reply. That could happen, so I'm just filing the motion here. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Van Dijk Commission strongly advised the government, following the Q-fever epidemic, to apply the precautionary principle in future in relation to animal diseases which are also dangerous to humans (zoonoses);]] [[noting that the precautionary principle has not yet been sufficiently safeguarded in the legislation on infectious animal diseases;]] [[noting that the government is working on a plan of action to significantly reduce the risk of the emergence of zoonoses (Motion-Ouwehand 25295, No. 452);]] [[points out that the legal instruments necessary to ensure timely intervention by the precautionary principle in the event of a threat to zoonoses should be in order;]] [[calls on the Government to make clear in the approach plan how appropriate legal instruments will be provided to act on the basis of the precautionary principle,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Esch, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u455	Then pesticides. In the written answer to my questions on the testing requirements of agricultural poison, the Minister for Medical Care states that there is an assessment of the harmfulness to the immune system, of the harmfulness to the nervous system in development and of that hormone disturbance. This is true in terms of acute effects, but chronic effects are not tested standard, but only in certain cases. My group believes it is very important that these chronic tests should also be standardized in those authorisation procedures for those pesticides. Especially when it comes to the health of young, unborn children, these tests are particularly important. And that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas hormone disruption and damage to the immune system and the nervous system by exposure to chemicals may occur in the development of young and unborn children and may only become apparent at a later age;]] [[noting that the pesticide authorisation procedure does not standard test for the chronic effects on the immune system, the nervous system in development and for hormone disruption;]] [[calls on the Government to advocate at European level the standard mandatory inclusion of these tests for chronic effects in the pesticide authorisation procedure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u456	My last motion, of course, is about prevention and is a kind of encouragement for the Secretary of State to work on the plan for healthy school lunch. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that unhealthy nutrition accounts for 8.1% of the burden of disease, 12,900 deaths and EUR 6 billion in healthcare costs;]] [[noting that research shows that a healthy school lunch, possibly combined with additional mobility, has a positive effect on children's BMI and reduces the proportion of overweight and obesity in children;]] [[Whereas early learning helps to maintain healthy behaviour as an adult;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan for (phased) national implementation of the healthy school lunch, possibly in conjunction with additional mobility, and to inform the Chamber before 1 February 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u458	Thank you, Mrs Van Esch. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u459	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply and put forward three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that according to the national driver, care providers are often unaware of the existing offer of support and do not or late ask for help, and municipalities think too much from the existing offer of assistance, rather than from the care provider;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor the implementation of the recommendations of the national driver's respite care and to promote the proactive and preventive support of municipalities and to inform the Court of Justice thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need to increase significantly the number of nursing homes;]] [[Whereas health insurers are examining the exact size of the construction contract;]] [[calls on the government to identify at the same time (legal) obstacles surrounding the construction or expansion of nursing homes and how they can be eliminated, and to inform the Chamber about them before the elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Palliative Care Programme expires in 2020 and has also been evaluated;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make clear what has been achieved in concrete terms over the past period, what problems remain in terms of access to and financing of palliative care, and what possible ways of resolving this situation, and to inform the Chamber about this before the elections,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-154]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-155]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-156]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u460	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank you for the detailed written reply, which has also been worked on. Mrs. Agema wondered if she'd broken a record with her 38 motions. I remembered that in 2007 the Party for Animals submitted a lot of motions to the Note Animal Welfare. That was 41.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u461	I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u462	Now you could say "not at all," but in politics it is very often the case that you always have a different perspective. If you zoom in on it more closely, it was 31 motions by Mrs Thieme and 10 by Mrs Ouwehand, so you could say that you have set a personal record with that. At the same time, this also makes the system discussion in the care sector relative, because who would think that a change in the funding system would produce better results, might also have the idea that we would be paid here per operation, per motion operation. That is not the case. However, there are a lot of motions. If you were to say that a written answer actually promotes the efficiency of the debate, then that is the question again, because that could eventually lead to a larger number of motions being tabled. If the rulers had extended the speech until midnight, the number of motions might have been less. In short, Mr President, it is also an illustration of the resentment of all the discussions in the healthcare sector. We're all working on that with heart and soul. We also thank the colleagues who are about to leave this Chamber, but who have worked for many years to do so. So thank them very much, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u463	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u464	Mr President, I have only five motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u465	There's got to be a motion in between about something with a spoiled egg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u466	No, I'm not. I promise you. That was the day before yesterday. That metaphor did indeed linger. Let me not do that to you today, Mr. President. Let me start with the motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than half of the workers in the care are already suffering from a (too) high workload;]] [[noting that caregivers sometimes spend up to 40% of their time on registrations during patient contacts;]] [[noting that caregivers speak of organised distrust;]] [[Whereas the interim report of the (Ont) Regulbus of June 2020 states that if each healthcare worker worked one hour longer per week, the staff shortage in care would have been resolved;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that every care professional spends at least one hour a week less time on administrative burdens,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u467	In any case, this is an attempt to resolve the staff shortage, but in the event that it does not succeed, a second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than half of the workers in the care are already suffering from a high workload and are working themselves into a burn-out;]] [[noting that Expert Care Institute in Rotterdam successfully retrains, trains and deploys as caregivers to their relatives, friends or neighbors who have a care indication at home;]] [[calls on the Government to roll out this initiative nationally to reduce the expected staff shortage in care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older people with a non-Western migration background have less use of home care due, among other things, to lack of communication and a lack of connection of care provision to their needs, requirements and needs;]] [[Whereas current diversity in society requires a changed approach to care and care training plays an important role in this;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with care training how culturally sensitive care can be better embedded in curricula,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that older people with a non-Western migration background have less use of home care due, among other things, to lack of communication and a lack of connection of care provision to their needs, requirements and needs;]] [[noting that there are now stacks of reports underlining the importance of culturally sensitive care;]] [[Whereas current diversity in society requires a changed approach to care;]] [[calls on the government finally to convert the findings on culturally sensitive care, which are regularly reported and endorsed by numerous investigations, into policies and to allocate resources for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-158]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-159]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-160]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u468	And the final motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that nitrous-related road accidents have increased tenfold over the last three years;]] [[noting that one in five young adults indicates the use of nitrous oxide;]] [[noting that the Government has indicated that there is an exception whereby consumers aged 18 and over may still purchase nitrous oxide in quantities of not more than one package of not more than ten ampoules;]] [[Whereas this is already threatening to become symbol legislation for the proposed legislative proposal;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a total ban on the consumption of nitrous oxide which is actively maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-161]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u469	We'll have a minute left, but I'll give it to society, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u470	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Sazias. I wonder how many minutes you will use. Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u471	I will not do that to you, nor will the rest of my colleagues. First of all, I am very pleased with the appreciation of the Court of Justice for our amendment on care support. If the family care passport is introduced, that means a piece of recognition for the caregivers. Then we can arrange for the carers to add several things, such as the co-hire, which can be requested earlier. I have, of course, co-signed and co-written the motion tabled by Mrs Ploumen on breast cancer screening. Mr Van der Staaij's motion for a resolution on respite care was also warmly endorsed. The same applies to Mrs Ellemeet's motion on menopause. I am very glad that she has drawn attention to this. I would ask the Minister to discuss this with the Minister for Social Affairs, because, as Mrs Ellemeet pointed out, the problem of menopause has social consequences, especially due to the loss of women at work. So it is an important subject. Then the neighborhood sports coaches. We leave the details to the municipalities, albeit with the result that there is still too little attention for local sports coaches for the elderly in the district. Fortunately, the Secretary of State also sees the great importance of moving. I have a motion; it's not a clue, it's an incentive. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas a local sports coach for the elderly can make a significant difference to the health of these people, both physically and mentally, and helps to combat loneliness;]] [[noting that municipalities are significantly more committed to young people than to older people from 65 onwards;]] [[calls on the government to encourage municipalities to increase the number of hours of community sports coaches for older people without a reduction in hours for young people,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-162]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u472	Then there is a subject that we are always calling for: prevention of malnutrition. The main focus of home care is now household cleaning. A clean house is very important, but as I have said before, good food is at least as important, if not more important. There must be more space and more attention to that. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas one of the three elderly living at home is malnourished;]] [[Whereas, in the case of malnourishment of this target group, community care is provided, but once it is done, it takes longer for older people to regain their strength;]] [[Whereas it is desirable to prevent malnutrition;]] [[noting that home care is already present here, but that they are mainly engaged in household tasks such as cleaning;]] [[Whereas nutrition is as important as a clean house;]] [[calls on the government to make more room in the home care mission to ensure that more attention is paid to the prevention of malnutrition,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Sazias. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35570-XVI-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u473	Finally, I would like to thank the rulers, as well as the chairman for chairing, and the colleagues. I fully agree with Mrs Ellemeet that this is the best but also the most important committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u474	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. That brings us to the end of the second term of office. Do you know about how many motions have been filed? 88, I hear. Mrs van den Berg? 150. Mr. Veldman? Over 100. D66? 70. Who else? 91 motions have been tabled. You were all close; I think that's very good. Ministers and Secretary of State, how long shall we suspend? Twenty minutes? Of course you can. Then that's what we'll do. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.15 p.m.; that is just over twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u475	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That was a shitty pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u477	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u478	"Not the many is good, but the good is much," my mother always said. But there was a lot of beautiful things in here. I'm going to be very brief. I'll start with the motion in part No. 99. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u479	What number?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u480	The motion in part No. 99. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 100 is not recommended. I hear "ho, ho" yelling. Guys, I don't get paid by word. So come on! The motion in part No. 102 by Mrs Agema is not recommended. The motion in part No. 103 by Mrs Agema is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u481	Wait a minute. You mentioned the numbers 99 and 100. And then you were talking about the motion in part No. 102?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u482	Yeah, the motion to part No. 102. It's being dissuaded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u483	And then what? Then the motion to part No. 103? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u484	The motion in part No. 103 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u485	I've already lost it. This is too fast for 50PLUS. Can you repeat it for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u486	Ah, it's like the bingo! I'll list the numbers twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u487	Can you repeat it one more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u488	That's good. We'll start over. What numbers do you have? It's really a bingo night!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u489	Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna start over. The motion in part No. 99, number 99, for Mrs Sazias, not recommended. The motion in part No. 100: dissuade. The motion in part No. 102: dissuade. The motion in part No. 103: Well, still dissuade. The motion in part No. 104 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 105 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 106 is not recommended. And the motion in part No. 108 gets judgment, Room. The motion in part No. 109 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 110 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 113: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 122 I am going to present to my colleague from BZK. I didn't dare disturb them at this late hour. But this is really a BZK motion. So I'm gonna pass this through. It will, I hope, respond in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u490	That's the motion in part No. 122.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u491	The motion in part No. 123: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 124: Judgment of the Court of Justice. The motion in part No. 133: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 134: dissuade. I would like to ask the authors of the motion for a resolution in part No. 137 want to ask for them to be retained. I would like to stick to the date mentioned in the operative part, but it is actually more of a matter of form, because the operative part also states what the cabinet response should be. I would really like to talk to my fellow Members about this first. Then I'd be happy to come back to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u492	I have a question on the motion for a resolution on item No. 134. It's being dissuaded, and I don't get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u493	No, I'm gonna step in anyway. There are 91 motions. Almost all motions are discouraged and no one has asked questions about them. That is not the intention either, otherwise we will be discussing motions. I'd love to do that. But that goes for everyone, and that goes for all 91 motions. So I'd say just put it to the vote. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u494	You're in charge here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u495	Well...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u496	Right? That's how it's always been explained to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u497	I like to keep it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u498	Yeah, we'll keep it that way. I asked if the motion in part No. 137 could be apprehended. Then the motion to part No. 138.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u499	I hear that people in the Chamber want to know what the reaction to the motion on item No. 137 is if it is not stopped. I don't know. What's the appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u500	That always sounds so unkind. Let's just talk about it when the cabinet response comes. This motion orders a substantive cabinet response. I find that a bit odd in form. For the rest, let us resume the debate at the moment when the cabinet response is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u501	Members of parliament can now hold motions, but sometimes they want to wait until Tuesday or Thursday. But others need to know what the verdict is, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u502	Yes. As far as the date is concerned, I would like to note that we are coming up with a cabinet response in January. But the second half of the operative part, I cannot go along with that, at least not at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u503	Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u504	I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u505	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (35570-XVI, No. 137). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u506	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u507	Then the motion to part No. 138: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 143: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 147 'calls on the government to appoint a mediator in the short term', I am not going to recommend, but I would like to take up the question put by Mrs Bergkamp. I have explained many times that making a professional standard is really up to the profession itself, the V&VN. This concerns the content. That there are things going rough around the relationship, I also notice, but I can't fix it. Nor can I impose an obligation on the parties. This is really up to the profession. I think they've done a great deal to make sure they've gotten in touch with all kinds of parties. Almost everyone, except one, also agrees with the content of this line. So I'm going to dissuade the motion and I'll ask Mrs Bergkamp to do so, and it's going to meet Mr Kerstens's party questioning whether they would need to make a mediator possible. I don't have a problem with that, but they have to want it. I can't make them happy against their will. That's not how it works. That was the motion in part No. 147. So I didn't recommend that motion, with a commitment to both of them. The judgment on the motion in part No. 149 I leave to the Chamber. The judgment on the motion in part No. 154 I leave to the Chamber. The judgment on the motion in part No. 155 I leave to the Chamber. The judgment on the motion in part No. 156 I leave to the Chamber. On the motion in part No. 163 I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say a few things, if you will allow me. Firstly, a word of thanks to our officials. Furthermore, as the tradition dictates, of course the Bible text for Mr Van der Staaij. That is a tradition I once took over from my predecessor, Martin van Rijn. And, of course, a thank you to those Members who have made their last budget debate in the Chamber today. I'd like to combine those last two. First of all, a thank you to our people from VWS. I like to see that all Members of Parliament have done the same. It was already a tradition in the city council of Rotterdam that we thanked our officials after a budget discussion. I think that's a nice tradition to continue here too. I would like to thank them for their great support, including this budget debate. For many of our people it was a short night and a long day, as there were so many short nights and very long days this year. Since the beginning of this year, the department of VWS has been in constant crisis mode and our people are constantly on. We never call on them in vain. What the VWS have done and done work this year is huge. It says if you're counted on; that's the mindset. For that, a deep bow fits, because our thanks are great. My second final point is that for a number of Members of Parliament this was the last budget debate in this House. That goes for Hayke Veldman, for Antoinette Laan, for Wim-Jan Renkema, for Henk van Gerven, for Antje Diertens, for John Kerstens, for Carla Dik-Faber and for Léonie Sazias. The temptation is great, in conclusion, to dwell on the many gifts that were offered to us yesterday. Yet I do not, because biblical history teaches us that it does not always end well with the recipients of gifts, especially the edible ones. I would just like to point out here that I am looking specifically at Mrs Van Esch on the well-known apple and the biological-dynamic lentil soup. Several speakers yesterday discussed not only the issue of dying, but also the future and, among other things, the long-term vision of care for the elderly. This reminds me of the last days of the life of Moses and of Deuteronomy 31: "Afterwards Moses spoke again to the Israelites. He said: I am now 120 years old and unable to lead anymore. Moreover, the Lord has told me not to cross the Jordan." After a long journey through the desert, Moses stood with the people on the threshold of the Promised Land, but he was not allowed to enter it himself. He was introduced to the mountains and was allowed from afar to see the Promised Land. He wasn't allowed to enter. In the sight of the harbor Moses himself was not allowed to go. He had indeed experienced and contributed to the progress. Here in the Chamber, too, we look forward to the future, to the promised country, where we have even better organised care for vulnerable people. At the same time we sometimes walk a bit heated or overheated through the desert and experience persistent problems, but we do take courageous steps forward. You say goodbye, hand over the stick. Although you do not enter the promised country, you have experienced part of the journey and contributed to improvements that others can build on. I would like to thank you for the debates, for the cooperation and for the way in which you have carried out your important role as a representative of the people in recent years. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u508	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u509	Thank you. Then I will give the floor to the Minister for Medical Care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u510	Thank you, Mr President. I still have a number of questions left over from the first and second term. Then I have a number of amendments to appreciate and I will make a number of motions to appreciate. From a certain numbering I start to doubt whether I should include the signatories. First of all, the questions I had from the first term, starting with Mr Van Gerven's question asking about the costs of remdesivir and the price paid for it. In any case, let me say in his direction that it is indeed harsh when a company makes a big profit on a covid drug, and that is what it looks like with remdesivir. The cost is not known but the selling price is indeed €2,000. I think it is important to remain critical of the price to be paid for a medicine. The European Commission, of course, bought brake desivir at a time when the need was highest, so I am going to send this message to the European Commission. In the direction of Mrs Van Esch, I would like to add the following about zoonoses and political responsibility for avian influenza. These decisions concern both public and animal health protection measures. When it comes to measures to protect public health, it is my responsibility. The measures currently being taken, e.g. clearing farms in the poultry sector, relate to animal health and are, of course, the responsibility of the Minister of LNV. I would answer the question when the zoonose plan will come to the Chamber. The answer to that is: for Christmas. I would like to inform Mrs van den Berg when the answers will be given to the written consultation SPP. The answers are in the emergency bag. I'm working on it, hoping to send them to the Chamber tomorrow or Monday at the latest. Then I have a number of amendments which I would like to welcome. First of all, that is the amendment to item No. 4 by Mrs Marijnissen, Mr Asscher and Mr Klaver. I do not recommend this amendment. Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 by Mr Van Gerven. I'd advise against it. The amendment in part No. 17 by Mrs Ploumen, Mr Hijink and Mrs Ellemeet. The amendment in part No. 39 by Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Bergkamp, I give judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the amendment to item No. 59 by Mrs Laan and Mrs Ellemeet. I'll pass judgment on that, Room. The amendment in part No. 61 by Mrs Van den Berg and Mrs Dik-Faber, I give judgment to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 63 by Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Veldman, I give a ruling to the Chamber. The amendment in part No. 65 by Mrs Bergkamp and Mr Raaijmakers, I give judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u511	I believe they have all been answered in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u512	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u513	There is one amendment on which no judgment has been given. That is the amendment to item No. 6 by Mr Ploumen and Mr Hijink, on the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u514	I will come back to that at the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u515	That's good. Mrs Ploumen knows what I mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u516	I think I know. That amendment has been converted into a Ploumen/Hijink/Ellemeet amendment, which the Minister has just advised against. But if she wishes to reflect on that advice, we will give her every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u517	I'm getting confirmation that I dissuaded it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u518	Then that's what we've been through.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u519	Then I'll go to the appreciation of the motions. Then I come to the motion on part No. 73 by Mrs Agema and Mr Wilders. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. Seventy-four of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Seventy-five of Mrs. Agema's, I advise. The motion in part No. Seventy-six of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Seventy-seven of Mrs. Agema's, I advise. The motion in part No. Seventy-eight of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. I give 79 of Mrs Agema's: Court of Justice. That evaluation is now taking place. The motion in part No. 80 of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Eighty-one of Mrs. Agema's is my guess. The motion in part No. 82 of Mrs. Agema's, I advise. The motion in part No. I advise 83 of Mrs Agema, because that is not up to the government but to the medical specialists. The same applies to the motion in part No. 84 by Mrs Agema. I'd advise against it. The motion in part No. Eighty-five of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Eighty-six of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 87 by Mrs Agema and Mr Wilders, I advise against. The motion in part No. 88 by Mrs Agema and Mr Wilders, I advise against. The motion in part No. 89 by Mrs Agema and Mr Wilders, I advise against. The motion in part No. I advise 90 of Mrs. Agema's. The motion in part No. I advise 91 of Mrs Agema's. The motion in part No. Ninety-two of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 93 by Mrs Agema, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 94 by Mrs Agema, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Ninety-five of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 96 of Mrs Agema's, I'm judging Chamber. The motion in part No. 97 of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. Ninety-eight of Mrs. Agema's, I'm not sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u520	You've got a taste for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u521	The motion in part No. I advise 100 of Mrs. Agema's. The motion in part No. 106 by Mrs Agema, I advise. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. The motion in part No. Mr Veldman and Mrs Van den Berg: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. 114 by Mrs Ellemeet and Mr Renkema, I advise against. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). The motion in part No. 117 by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Sazias, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 118 by Mr Renkema, I give judgment to the Chamber. Then I have the motion by Mr Renkema and Mrs Ellemeet on the financial problems. Is that the motion in part No. 119?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u522	Yeah, 119.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u523	The motion in part No. 119 I give judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 120. That is the motion by Mrs van den Berg and Mrs Bergkamp. I have a question about that. I would like to ask whether this motion can be held, because I indicated at the last general consultation that I would contact the Minister for Foreign Affairs because it is his portfolio and that I would link it back to the Chamber. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained until I have put it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u524	At the request of Mrs Van den Berg, I propose her motion (35570-XVI, No. 120). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u525	Thank you. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The motion in part No. 126 by Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Van den Berg, asking if I would like to work out something further within FAST: judgment of the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Van Gerven (ED). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Gerven on his excellent report. The motion in part No. 128 by Mr Van Gerven, I recommend. Then there are a number of speech-expressions that I don't appreciate. The motion in part No. 131 by Mr Van Gerven, I recommend. The motion in part No. Mr Van Gerven (ED). - (NL) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Van Gerven on his excellent report. The motion in part No. 135 by Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Sazias, I give judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 136 by Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman, I give the Chamber's judgment. The motion in part No. 140 by Mrs Ploumen, I advise. The motion in part No. 142 by Mrs Ploumen on breast implants I judge Chamber. Then there was a motion about the specialists in old-age medicine. Excuse me, I'll just get the number for that. I'm gonna continue with the motion on part number one. 144 by Mr Kerstens. I'll give it to you. Judge Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u526	The motion on old age medicine is the motion in part No. 145.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u527	Thank you. I don't recommend that motion. Mr Kerstens' motion and Mrs Ellemeet's motion for a resolution 145, I don't recommend. The motion in part No. 146 by Mr Kerstens, I advise. The motion in part No. 148 by Mr Kerstens, I advise. The motion in part No. 150 by Mrs Dik-Faber I give judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 151 by Mrs Van Esch, with a very broad signature, I do not recommend. On the motion in part No. 152 I have a question for Mrs Van Esch. I am getting the signal that it is already in the admission procedure. I'd like to check that, and that's why I'm asking her to hold the motion until I check it out. I'll let her know what I'm doing with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u528	I see from Mrs Van Esch that she agrees with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u529	The motion in part No. 157, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 158, I advise. The motion in part No. 160, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 162, I'm not sure. If you'll allow me, Mr. Chairman. I have different formats and because of that the numbering sometimes does not go very well. Did I get the motion in part No. Would Mrs Dik-Faber's 150 on the Healthcare Institute appreciate it? I see that's the case. Then I guess I'm done. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u530	Thank you. I shall go to Mrs Dik-Faber for a moment, because it is not clear which motion it is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u531	It wasn't 79th motion, it was 78th. Maybe that's why I'm confused.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u532	Okay, then that's clear. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u533	Thank you, Mr President. I have just checked and I wanted to give an appreciation of nine motions, but a few have been dealt with by the Minister. And that's why I think I've got about six left. We're gonna see if there's any more holes falling, and if so, I'm gonna have a judgment on everything! One question has been put on my plate by Mrs Bergkamp. She asked me to inform the Chamber in writing about the STD tests. I will, and I am happy to admit that letter. Then there are the motions, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. I advise 72 of Mrs Agema's. The motion-Van Gerven c.s. in piece No. 125 has been signed by the entire Chamber. A memorable moment! Judgment Room. The Ploumen c.s. motion in piece No. 139, I believe, was signed by the whole Chamber. Also this motion judges Chamber, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u534	The motion in part No. 139?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u535	That's right, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 139. The motion in part No. 141 by Mrs Ploumen and Mr Renkema, I recommend. As far as I am concerned, this motion is premature, even though the motion itself is sympathetic. I wanted to say a few words about the motion in part No. 142, because I thought I was here about the breast implants. But that's Mrs. Van Ark. I have the same judgment, by the way. The motion in part No. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It is in itself a nice ambition, but just a little too soon. The motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Mr President, I think I have mentioned all the motions that had not yet been tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u536	Then there's probably the motion in part No. 159 by Mr Kuzu on older people with a non-Western migration background.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u537	That motion on the migration background. That's right, Chairman! We'll get back to that, Mr. Chairman, because that's being checked now. In the meantime, I would like to make a pleasing statement to the authors of the motion for a resolution on item No. 134, Bergkamp and Raemakers. Minister De Jonge had attached the appreciation "unadvised" to it, but that is converted into Court of Justice judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u538	What happened? President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 159 on immigrant elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u539	Mr. Chairman. Maybe I can say a few more words. That's what I was going to do. I'd like to thank the officials for their hard work, at home, at the Ministry and here in this building. Fantastic support, so great appreciation. I would also like to thank Members of Parliament for this debate. I notice that about half of the Members of Parliament present here are going to leave and so a lot of gigabytes of collective memory are going to leave this building. That's a little troubling in itself. Maybe some people can change their minds. But thank you very much for the constructive cooperation. I can add a lot of words to that, but I am actually waiting for the appreciation for the Kuzu motion on part No. 159. Maybe I can talk some more? The water was good tonight, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u540	Well, fine!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u541	I think the minister who's talking about that could give you that appreciation. I don't know if that's a third term, but that appreciation is coming. It's a very difficult motion, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u542	It's not that bad. She's about immigrant elders.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u543	And that is when Mr Kuzu is not even here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u544	But we'll keep an eye on it. Mrs. Diertens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u545	Mr. Chairman. I would like to take the floor, however, because my colleague had forgotten because of the time it took to say that we had asked those written questions. Now I am not going to start the debate again, but we were given those answers before the debate and we did not come back to that, because we are happy to do so in the Corona debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u546	Then that's made clear. In the meantime, we know what the verdict is on the Kuzu motion on item No. 159. Yeah? The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u547	Mr. Chairman. That concerns the portfolio of the colleague of OCW, so I advise against this motion, but I will talk to her about it. I wanted to, because I had just forgotten that in the hectic of the numbering, also for my part all the people who have worked so hard behind the scenes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u548	Thank you. Then we'll find out what the outcome of the conversation with your colleague at Education. That also brings us to the end of the debate on the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-03-tweedekamer-11.u549	This is the last budget for a number of colleagues. We will of course continue for a few weeks, so I am not going to mention your names again here, but I think it is important to remember that this is your last budget. We're gonna say goodbye to each other. The officials have already been thanked, but I would also like to thank the group staff very much, because behind the scenes they are also doing a lot of preparatory work for MPs. The same applies to the legislative office, which prepares all the amendments. Hans Clemens isn't here today, but he's also here for the last time. He's been supporting the VWS committee as a clerk all these years. I think he could write a book about that. Maybe he's retiring, but he'll be back here in early January before he retires. We're going to vote on the motions next week. I would also like to thank the US Secretary of State, the Minister for Medical Care and the Secretary of State for their work incredibly. I would also, of course, like to thank the clerks, the messengers and the stenography service.
