ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u1	We shall begin, as usual, with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mrs Leijten's question on behalf of the SP to the Secretary of State for Finance about an external investigation into dereliction of duty at the Tax Office. Mrs. Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u2	"The IRS ruined my life." These were the words of Chermaine Leijsner, a beautiful Hagenees who fought for ten years and had to repay a ton. Parents had to do their story in front of the camera because the IRS didn't listen to them. No, the IRS would have called them a fraud. They did not get a listening ear or a payment arrangement, but a pay record. Increases were settled. They were pulled over by car while they were on their way to work. The stories they have scared me every day. What happened here, everyone could see. This can't be happening. This can't be happening. There are room motions that say that all of this is not by the law. But investigating officials was completely undisputed, not for the Chamber and certainly not for society or for those parents who already reported, but for the Ministry. The Ministry wanted to keep it a bit cozy. Because we did our job and journalists also did their job, there was a second opinion. It was allowed to cost more than one and a half tonnes There was no other outcome. Anyone could see this. But it does raise a lot of questions. Because there's also an investigation into a whistleblower. It is now being said that there should be an external investigation, including for executives. Why don't we get that advice? How's this gonna go with the D.A.'s declarations? How does the D.A. handle it at all? There's just civilian records, but the DA's office's been taking months to respond to them at all. There is now a report of discrimination while we expect another investigation from the Dutch Data Protection Authority. Mr. Chairman. I have so many questions. I know I'm short. But what I really find very tragic is that we are standing here to talk about a decision that we all see had to, but that the Ministry has stopped until it had to be. How does the Secretary of State look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Earlier today, Secretary of State Vijlbrief and I reported the suspicion of two possible crimes. It's not about a report against people, it's about the organization. Two crimes are involved, namely professional discrimination and gaggering. The latter is wrongly claiming payment from an official. We make that report on the basis of the advice of an independent expert, Mr. Biemond. He concluded in the second opinion, which Mrs Leijten also referred to, on the basis of public documents relating to the fraud investigations of the child care allowance that it is necessary for us to report. That's what his advice says. Mr Biemond stressed, in particular, that his opinion should not infer that there were actual criminal or criminal offences and that it did not take into account individuals. Of course, it's up to the State's Attorney's Office to move on with this now. The step to report has not been taken lightly and has a huge impact, not least on the disabled parents of childcare allowances. It also has an impact on the employees of the Tax Administration, on the employees of Fees and on the Ministry. I understand that, and it is also a very serious matter. It's about the suspicion of serious facts. They must therefore be carefully examined, because the Tax Administration in particular, and certainly the government as a whole, must be above all doubt. I therefore believe that it is important that this research is carried out, that it is done well and that it is also going to give clarity. That is in the interests of the parents, in the interests of the Tax Administration and in the interests of all of us. What we have to work on, of course, is to make sure that the Tax Administration is going to transform into a service that is reliable, approachable and helpful. We need to continue with the work at Increases to ensure that the disabled parents are compensated, that their rights are done and that they can regain confidence in their government. Of course, we have to work to make all kinds of organisational improvements within the Tax Administration and within Fees to ensure that the Tax Administration can be trusted by everyone again, and becomes reliable, approachable and helpful. I would very much like to work on that. Mrs Leijten asked a number of questions related to another investigation that is ongoing, namely an investigation into a whistleblower. This whistleblower sent a letter to the Chamber in November of last year and to my predecessor, which contained a number of observations on abuses which he found when he was working with the Tax Administration. My predecessor Menno Snel, but also Minister Hoekstra, indicated that he considered it important that these abuses should be investigated. My predecessor Menno Snel has also indicated that he acknowledges some of these abuses. That investigation is ongoing. An initial interim conclusion has been drawn that research has been carried out by the Ministry's integrity office and thus runs between the person concerned, the whistleblower and the Ministry's office, and it has been concluded that it is necessary to carry out actual further investigation. That's what we're gonna do. This is, therefore, in addition to the investigation which the Public Prosecutor will be carrying out in the case of the offences of which we have reported, at least of the suspicion to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u5	I can imagine that it would be hard for the Secretary of State to stand here in the Chamber for the first time with such a message and such a decision, but that is because there is no other way. I actually want her to go into that. We want a reliable IRS, of course. But I also want transparency. I also want to get what we are asking for, for example the interim report. In it are simply advice to the Tax Administration and to the Ministry on how to carry out further research. Why can't that be shared with us so that we can take part in our decision? Indeed, in this dossier, what the Chamber has done has been rather crucial. The movement never automatically came out of the Tax Department or the Ministry. So I'd like to see those pieces. For example, we ask for risk selection and selection rules. But no, we don't get it. I also have the following question. This will be an investigation into what happened at Increases under that group-level fraud approach. But after that? Then it went through, consciously. Isn't that a highly official decision? Why isn't that being investigated?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u6	It is important that, in the case of the whistleblower, an investigation is carried out by the integrity office, by the Ministry of Finance, on behalf of the Secretary-General. This concerns an employee and his employer, in this case the former employer of this employee. I firmly believe that that kind of correspondence and those investigations between the employee and the relevant employer, the Ministry, remain, because it concerns subjects that concern this person, this former employee of ours, himself. Of course, should the investigation not lead to the interim investigation, but to the final investigation, we would like to share those results with you, which are also important for the rest of the ministry to implement improvements and which do not specifically address the personal situation of this employee. But I also attach great importance to the fact that individual situations, individual matters of employees and former employees of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry itself, can remain between us, because they are confidential in that relationship. But once again, when elements come out that are more important, we do so. That is separate from the other question you asked on the subject of risk selection. I offered in the letter I sent you next week, we will discuss it in the notebook meeting to give you confidential access to the way in which we make risk selection at the Ministry, at the Tax Office. We can discuss this next week. However, I would like to conclude by saying that this second opinion was not done in the last place on the basis of the work you have done and that your Chamber has requested. That investigation has been carried out and that leads to that very, very intense and very special conclusion that we have had to draw today, namely that it is necessary for the Ministry of Finance, for me and for my fellow Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief, to report against our own service. We consider it important to do so, because it is very important for the employees involved and the organisation, but not least for the parents, that the truth come out here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u7	Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u8	It is very important for the truth to come out, but there is so much more. This can never be an end point. What happened in that period after that? Go to the Council of State with incomplete files. All the questions we still have. It has continued within that service to act so hard. The parents lived under that reign of terror until the fall, which was only stopped when Mr Omtzigt and I forced your predecessor to stop it. That report is intense, I understand, but this can't be it. That is why I have said before that I also really believe that the House is in favour of this. I have seen that this must be my last sentence in order to get the bottom line with a parliamentary survey and to clear this cesspool completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. Then Mr Azarkan and Mr Snels on this side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u10	Hey, all these years this Tax Administration has ruined life, all these years just discrimination, I'm telling you, and I've said it many times here all these years these people have failed. I've just spoken to some of them and they say, "Hey, I'm a little reassured." Research after investigation. It didn't come out. We've had the Ombudsman. We have the ADR. We have the Donner Committee. Every time a committee started working, something new came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u12	It's like a file of looking away and denying it. Mr President, I am taking a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u13	No, you can't. The question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr President, the question is: can this Secretary of State guarantee all Dutch people that they are not judged by the colour of their skin or their last name, but that they simply have the right to be treated in a normal way, like all other Dutch people?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u15	I very much agree with Mr Azarkan that everyone in this country should be treated equally, not least by the government. It is important that there should be evidence of suspicions of discrimination, which are very well examined in the declaration we are making, and that this should be carefully looked at, because it must be eradicated, with root and branch. It should not be the case in the Netherlands that people are treated unequally in equal cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u16	Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u17	It's shocking that government officials have to press charges against the IRS. It's also a slap in the face for all the parents involved, for two reasons. Those reasons are that there is a reasonable suspicion that there has been abuse of power, but also professional discrimination. I find that really shocking. The question is how this lawyer who has done a second opinion in two months has come to the conclusion of a reasonable suspicion of abuse of power and of discrimination, professionally, while the Ministry has been unable and unwilling to reply to it for a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u18	I agree with Mr Snels that this has a major impact not only on the service but also on the parents concerned. And, of course, a lot of research has been done in recent times on the problems surrounding the childcare allowance. This research is, of course, mainly due to the demand for a second opinion on those documents. Of course, there has been the investigation of the Donner Committee and the investigation of the ADR, the Audit Service Rijk. However, this study has focused specifically on whether there would indeed be a duty or advice to report wrongdoings, hogwashing and professional discrimination. And Mr Biemond's conclusion is that it is indeed, and it must be done, and we have done so; we have now made that report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mr Omtzigt, on behalf of the CDA. And then Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u20	Thank you to the government for taking this step, because I know how difficult it is. And indeed we have been calling for this for over a year, but in the end there is a government report against its own department, and thus against its own officials, for action. That says a lot about the state of law of the Tax Administration. And there lies a difficult task for these Secretary of State to restore. But this research is only about 2013-2017. That is so important because from 2017, the National Ombudsman said "it's going wrong," and because we said it here, and because those internal documents said "it's not right." Can we hear in the short term whether there were any omissions between 2017 and 2020? Because if the Ombudsman had been listened to in 2017, it would have been corrected in 2018 and 2019. So there has been three years too long, with incredibly much pain, as Mrs Leijten has described, and that too can be an absence of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u21	We make the declaration on the basis of the advice we have received, which was made on the basis of the study of a number of documents. Of course, it's up to the State's Attorney's Office to determine how they're going to design the investigation. But what I think is very important is that we are at a crucial point in this whole dossier. Not only has it emerged in recent times that parents have been greatly hurt, and that we have to compensate them, but now also that bigger mistakes have been made, including within the service. And it's important to me that that comes out okay, that we figure that out. But we'll talk a lot about the work we're doing in the near future to restore the doomed parents as quickly as possible, to do their justice, to give them confidence in the service again. But of course we also continue to look back at what has happened, and how it could have happened, not only because of the work of the Tax Administration, but also because of the regulations that were there, also because of the atmosphere and the social pressure that has been there. We're actually going to do that in combination with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u22	I've been working with the government my whole life, and I have to confess that I didn't think I'd have to talk one day about filing a report, about hogwashing and professional discrimination by employees of our government. I think this is a pitch-black day for trusting our government organisations. The fact that there is a report seems to me to be the only way to go. And I think it is also important for a lot of parents to have justice done there, as well as for them to be compensated financially. My question is this. We have been waiting for a long time for the report of the Personal Data Authority on whether there has been ethnic profiling. Can we really make that happen soon? And I know that the Public Prosecutor's Office is about his own way of working, but I hope that the Secretary of State will do everything in his power, and I also hope that the Public Prosecutor's Office will be able to speed up this process and to cooperate as much as possible with the Department of Finance, so that this becomes clear as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u23	I very much agree with Mr Van Weyenberg that it is important that the investigation be carried out as soon as possible; I am referring to the investigation by the Public Prosecutor. Of course that will have to be done carefully, but the clarity of this for the people within the Tax Office, but certainly for the parents, is of course very important. As you pointed out, there is indeed research done by the Dutch Data Protection Authority. I hope that this research will be carried out as soon as possible, and I also hope that we will be able to share and talk about it in the not too long term. Unfortunately, however, there is no date yet for that investigation to become available.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u24	Second, supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u25	We don't talk about individual civil servants in this house. That is the responsibility of the Secretary of State. This report is here now. I read that appropriate measures have also been taken in the organisation. I rely on the actions of the two Secretary of State. However, I assume that, if the investigation is carried out by the Dutch Data Protection Authority, it will again be examined whether this might give rise to additional declarations. I hope not. That would once again be very sad, but if that turns out to be the case, that should not be shunned either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u26	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u27	You're gonna have to press the pedal, or nobody's gonna hear you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u28	In the debates I have had the opportunity to hold over the last nine months, the word 'culture' has often been mentioned. We're talking about a declaration now, but that declaration fits within a culture, fits within a very long series. Because there are cases of problems with the Tax Administration that have already started in 2005. So the question is what next to this report is being done with that culture of gag. That is a word I haven't heard for a long time, but that, I think, gives me the weight of the reproach that is being made now. But the point is that this form of gag, thinking that you as a tax administration are above the law, is being dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u29	What's the question, Mr. Van Otterloo?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u30	I asked the Secretary of State how she is going to deal with this culture, the word that has been used in many cases, in addition to the declarations that have been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u31	What is of course incredibly important, not only with the Supplements Service but with the total Tax Administration, is that there is a culture and an atmosphere in which people can discuss things openly with each other, in which things are shared and in which the word "state of law" was already mentioned. Because only then can you be a reliable service, where people work proudly and who gives all the Dutch the confidence that everything that happens at that service is handled well. The steps that we, Secretary of State, Mr Vijlbrief and I, are going to take are also aimed at this. Not only do we want to work on improving the organisation, for example, think of the IT systems, ensure that monitoring works better and the data is also available, but we certainly want to work on creating such a culture in this service. That will be hard work, because the fact that we reported today is, of course, also a very intense and impactful event for the service.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mrs Lodders on behalf of the VVD. Oh, a second supplementary question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u33	I asked about culture. Over the last few months, we have had debates discussing the fact that research has been carried out and that external parties would be brought in to look at cultural change. We have spent a great deal of time on the vistas of cultural change, but I would like to know how this is now linked to this declaration.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u34	Yes, we've done some research. It'll be in your room soon. Indeed, it has been asked earlier to investigate the state of the culture in the Tax Administration. I'm assuming we can share this investigation with you in a few days.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u35	I think we are totally in agreement that this is a really intense day, that there is a report against a private service. That is really very intense, especially for the parents and all those people who have been involved in this case for months, years. That's what my question is about. Mr Snels has just asked, and Mr Omtzig is actually also asking, how is it possible that Mr Biemond has been able to do so in two months' time, while we have been leading the way for years here by Mr Leijten and Mr Omtzigt, I can say that we are trying to get that information. Now this advice comes after two months. But the question is what has been done in the period from 2017 to now. I think that's the most important question. Take the blacklist, which is not yet actively reported to the Dutch Data Protection Authority that something is thoroughly wrong in the organisation. What are we going to do in the short term to win back the trust of all those people a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u36	Mrs Lodders, it is Question Time, not a debate, so the questions must be really short. You're not the only one. Everyone's guilty of it. Probably because you weren't allowed to say anything for a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u37	Certainly, Mr. Chairman, but it's also a very intense case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u38	Yeah, it's very important. I know, Mr. Ommzigt. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u39	Mrs Lodders also knows that incredibly much research has been done in the past period, after this whole affair with the childcare allowance has surfaced. Research has been done by the Donner Commission in two rounds. Research has been done by the ADR and others. Of course, it is important that this investigation now leads to this conclusion and above all that we are working on it to make it clear to the parents who have been injured that they were not fraudsters, that they were not crazy and that things have actually happened that are not right. This shows once again that this suspicion of crime is being investigated. That's intense, and I'm gonna work hard to get that done. I hope to do the same with you, because there is a great responsibility for all of us to do this properly. This is without prejudice to the fact that there is indeed a great deal of work to be done in the coming period to improve the organisation in order to ensure that this kind of thing can no longer happen. We have to work on that too. Next week we will have a wide-ranging debate on the surcharges, what has happened in recent years, what we are doing and what we want to do in the near future to do justice to parents and to restore confidence in the Tax Administration. I would therefore suggest that we discuss this with each other in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u40	That's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u41	I shall continue with the question put by Mr Omtzigt. Mr Biemond's opinion deals with a limited number of public sources, particularly from the Donner Committee's report, and with a limited period of time. We know from this file that we get information over and over again and that all the committees of inquiry did not have all the information. Now I noticed that Mr Biemond's opinion was taken as a starting point in the declaration letter. That means a limited number of facts and a limited period of time. I'm allowed to assume that the D.A.'s office will be given every opportunity to investigate multiple crimes and multiple criminal offences, if they have been committed, and receive all the cooperation of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u42	Of course, we will cooperate with the Public Prosecutor's Office to do the research properly and efficiently and to take the space they themselves need to do the research. It is very important that, in the coming period, what has actually happened and whether these crimes have indeed been committed should come to light. This should provide clarity for the parents involved and affected, and certainly for the service itself. We will really do our utmost to ensure that the Public Prosecutor's Office gets all the space and access to files, to people, to employees, to what they need to do to investigate this properly. I agree with you that it is important for that to come to light.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u43	The report against the Tax Administration is about the group-by-group approach of parents and the removal of those parents as fraudsters. This policy was endorsed by the Council of Ministers. How does the government see its own role when the tax authorities are convicted?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u44	I find it very difficult to go into that. This morning, I got the final report. We've filed a report and made a letter to inform you. We will see what the consequences are and how this has consequences. Of course, we'll come back to that. It is clear that when the Public Prosecutor conducts the investigation, they also determine what happens to it and whether people will actually be prosecuted and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u45	People have been put away for years as fraud. Their lives have been ruined. They've been through a lot of grief and they're still really going through hell. More and more bodies are coming out of the closet. An external investigation had already been announced on the reports of one of the whistleblowers, Pierre Niessen, but I would like to be sure that all the other reports that have been made about those same top officials, who would not be included in that external investigation, are now included in the investigation. That is the least we can offer these parents, namely that those who have this on their consciences are punished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u46	Maybe we should keep two things apart for a while. Of course, when they report and investigate what the Public Prosecutor is going to do, they choose what they want to investigate. As I have just said, they have access to all the information and all the people they need and want to speak to, and we will give them that access. The whistleblower is specifically concerned with the fact that we are now in a phase, and I have read the conclusions from it.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We'll certainly do that. We will look into that to make sure that what exactly happened is clear, not only what happened in substance, but also how this person has been specifically treated. The fact is that he has tried to report complaints for years and years, but nothing has been done with them for a long time, as he himself writes in his letter. We'll do both things. We will, of course, ensure that we cooperate with the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of the report that we have made and that there is clarity for the deceased parents, but we will certainly also pursue the investigation that is under discussion on the basis of the whistleblower's notification.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u47	Your second question? Or was there a question left?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u48	I believe I have only one official question. But a clarifying...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u49	Oh, that's right. No, it's okay! I know you guys. No, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u50	Mr President, my question was that all other reports are included...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u51	No, no, no, no! No, Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen. Mrs. Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u52	Our spokesperson, Henk Nijboer, is now in another debate. However, we thought it was very important to pay attention to this today, because it is yet another bomb under this terrible file for the people. That is exactly what my question is about. My colleagues have asked very relevant questions. Our concern is now a little on the next. We hear reports that the settlement of the supplementing affair is already slowing down for people themselves. The debate that is now taking place and the studies that are being carried out may be able to ensure that people can no longer do their jobs and that a great deal of energy goes into them. That would be disastrous for those who are now waiting for an answer and for a solution to be found for their own dossier. I would therefore like to have the assurance that it will not be affected. Can you confirm that, I ask through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u53	That is, of course, a complicated matter, because I am convinced that this will have a significant impact on the staff involved in dealing with this issue. But I am convinced that many of those who are keen to ensure that parents are helped as soon as possible will continue to do so. I will, of course, see to it that this happens, because I think it is important that the parents are done justice as soon as possible. Moreover, there was no delay in relation to what I indicated when we made the cabinet response to Donner's report. We are still exactly on the path we want to use to actually compensate the parents. That does not mean that we can work very quickly, because it is very careful work. It's about a lot of parents. It's about 500 million euros. It is about a total of 15 years of policy that we should try to reverse, if that is the case. We really need time for that. I cannot deny that this has an impact on our service, but you can trust that I will do my best to ensure that the pace of restoring confidence and restoring what has happened remains high.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-19-tweedekamer-2.u54	Thank you.
