ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the proposal for a law of Mr Verhoeven regulating a process of balancing the use of vulnerabilities in automated works by the public authorities (35257). I would like to welcome the initiator and his supporter, Mr Verhoeven and Mr Marijn van Vliet. I would also like to welcome the Ministers for Justice and Security and Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations. They will act as advisor to the Chamber in the handling of this bill. The first term on the side of the Chamber took place on 18 June last. Today we are discussing the answer and the second period as a whole. Before I give the floor to Mr Verhoeven, of course, I would also like to welcome Members and the people who are following this debate at a distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u2	I would like to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven for his answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you in particular to all four groups for their questions and their presence in the debate in June, and also now. I'll give you a brief introduction. Then I will answer the questions that have been asked. First of all, I would like to make two brief comments, one negative and one positive. First of all, I must be a little disappointed in the heart. We are having this debate with four parties. Although they together account for 80 seats, given the contribution to the first term of the Chamber, my estimate is that it depends on the non-present parties whether this bill will pass. This means that, outside this debate, I will have to try to help this proposal to reach a majority. That's not so important. The point is that this complex and somewhat invisible subject seems to attract relatively little attention in Parliament. As someone who is trying to bring this issue to the fore, I find that somewhat disappointing. But how grateful I am that at least four parliamentary groups are here. Much more positive is the second point. That is that I would like to take this moment to thank our imperfect and unconditional digital brain, Marijn van Vliet, for everything he has done for the group over the last six years, for a digitally safer Netherlands, for me as a MP and for this bill in particular. As a cyber conscience of our party, he has fought for six years for a safer and more free digital Netherlands. Now that he has found a new challenge, I will miss his great knowledge and also his collegiate friendship. Thank you, Marijn. Mr. Chairman. Let's get to the point: digitalisation. Very briefly, the debate before the summer was a good and substantive debate. When I entered the Chamber just over ten years ago, that was actually unthinkable. That's already a win. Digitisation has taken off. Ten years ago, nobody walked an iPad, and now it's the most normal thing in the world. Blackberry's saw you more than iPhones and WhatsApp. Twitter and Facebook only just existed, while Instagram, Snapchat and TikTok still had to be invented, just like the first smart devices such as watches, thermostats and fitness trackers. The only debates on digital subjects at the time were about illegal downloading. There was hardly anything about online privacy, the power of tech companies or cybersecurity. In that sense, much has changed for the better. Digitisation is a serious issue, as is the subject we are discussing today. That's the authority of the government to hack Internet-connected devices. That's not a new jurisdiction. She's already been laid down in different laws. However, it is an increasingly important competence, due to developments in technology and increased digitalisation. The impact of device hacking has increased as there is an increasing number of digital connections. The impact of a possible attack or disruption is therefore also greater. That puts the safety of people and the whole of society at risk. It is also important to say that this is not a privacy versus security debate. Often a debate on digital issues is pushed into that corner. This is a security-versus-security debate. It's about the balancing and the question of what security you choose. On the one hand, keeping a zeroday open, an unknown vulnerability, can ensure that an intelligence or investigation service can better pursue the safety goal by entering a crucial device. On the other hand, an unknown vulnerability, a zeroday, can also be used by a malicious person to shut down part of our society, for example. And about that balance, the balance between one safety versus the other safety, it's going on today. The aim of me as the proposer of this proposal is to enforce sufficient checks-and-balances so that the right choices are made, and therefore in a more transparent and open way than is the case at present. This particular digital theme has also been the subject of a number of events in recent years. In recent years, for example, we have had a lot of discussions about the Intelligence and Security Services Act, the Wiv. The emphasis was mainly on the collection of data by tapping Internet cables, but that law also talked about a hacking power. Following that law and on the basis of the supervisory report 53, the CTIVD, the Chamber urged the Minister of the Interior to step up the process of balancing the security services one and a half years ago. Then the Committee on Notifications of Vulnerabilities was set up, a committee that parallels the proposal before us today. At the same time, much remains to be done. During the past year, police and Defense have also been given a hacking power, and in the case of Defense there is no balancing framework. Furthermore, the framework for the police is actually insufficient. This means that the three large organisations that hack must deal with the question of whether or not they should keep that unknown vulnerability open and use it or report it to the producer, so that it can be closed. So we have three organisations with three different regimes. In addition, the balancing framework of services can be even better, as can the coordination. The essence is that decisions are now being taken on whether or not to keep the zerodays a secret and that this is happening out of sight of politics. This bill provides a single balancing framework for all hacking powers, so that there can be a proper consideration whether a zeroday can be kept or not. It doesn't change the legal hacking power itself. It provides good checks-and-balances around that trade-off. The legal frameworks, the Computer Crime Act III and the Intelligence and Security Services Act are the leading legal frameworks, and they remain so. The aim is to prevent zerodays that can be used by criminals, unfriendly countries or terrorists. I didn't invent the wheel myself, and Marijn didn't invent it either, because there are already two balancing bodies in the United States and the United Kingdom. Those are countries that are very many hacks and forerunners in this area. The security services of these two countries often use their hacking powers, so it has been concluded that such a balancing body is necessary. So far, Mr President, my introduction. Then I'm going to answer the questions. I begin with the fundamental questions about the nature of this digital activity, the hacking. Questions like: should we even want to hack? Then I will deal with the design of the balancing body, the structure and the overarching character. Finally, I would like to address questions about the market in unknown vulnerabilities. There is a vibrant market with companies trading in unknown vulnerabilities and hack tools. Those things are also bought by Dutch organisations that hack. The question is whether this is really desirable. That is the construction of my speech from now on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u4	Before you do that, there is a question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u5	First of all, I would like to say that it is very good to see you here with this bill. I think there's an incredible amount of work in there and that's why I certainly appreciate what's going on. Furthermore, I appreciate the fact that you have taken this issue on board. Compliments for that! I understand from the construction of your speech that you are now moving on to the solutions, but before you do, I would like to return to the problem and the comparison that is being made with America. In America, of course, there are a lot of different institutions, but here I think only a limited number of organisations have the opportunity to use those zerodays. The applicant further indicated that the balancing framework was not sufficiently regulated in the case of the Defence Department and in part in the police. So what is the problem? That is the first thing that needs to be better substantiated. Isn't the problem much sooner that for the police and part of the Defense Department there is simply no balancing framework at the moment? Isn't that the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u6	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u7	That, I think, is at the heart of the problem. It is a development that has become increasingly important in recent years. Security and intelligence as well as investigation services as police and defense are increasingly using the opportunity to hack to pursue their goals. That is what they have done over the past few years, which is a discussion we have already had at the Wiv, which is actually done outside everyone's sight. They acted without a clear framework and made choices. These choices are becoming increasingly important for the safety of the Netherlands. What if there's no framework? In fact, we want a uniform framework in this proposal. Then it means that these organisations, all at their own discretion, without taking into account an interest that may be outside their direct organizational objective, make the choice to keep zerodays open, when there is no balance at all as to whether they should keep it closed or report it, so that it can be closed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u8	There's one more question for me. I understand the problem that there is not a balancing framework for all bodies. I think it would be very good to signal that and make sure that it happens. It is also important, of course, that you include different societal interests in that balancing framework, i.e. both hacking and impact on our security, our cyber security. But then there's a jump to the idea that it should be uniform.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u9	Mrs Buitenweg also touched that question in her first term. Her question was: should it be a single framework, or can it be done at sectoral level through three different frameworks? That is a question I wanted to say later, but I can do that now. You might ask yourself that is something the VVD has suggested in the written input why there should be a single framework for three organisations. This is not only because the uniform framework is important, but also because coordination is very important. The various services are in contact with each other. Their activities also overlap. It is important that they are more forced to balance together rather than continue to do so for themselves, because that is the culture. We therefore also consider it important that there should be more coordination between the different organisations that can hack, precisely by having a framework in which they all play a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u10	You will continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u11	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Then I shall begin with a question from Mr Van Raak. That was actually the key question: should the government use any wrong software holes to hack? You could say you shouldn't do that at all. For example, you can hack through social engineering, by deceiving someone. Then you don't need any vulnerabilities in software at all. You can also make use of existing, well-known software vulnerabilities for which there is a solution, which has not yet been widely implemented, that has not yet been used by everyone. So there's still a hole that you can sort of go through. Those are two alternatives. This is not just a key question for now, but it is also a very political question. What instruments are available to use to do their work? You could say that it would be much better if no unknown vulnerabilities were used by the government. I myself am looking at this as follows. The services do incredibly important work to keep the Netherlands safe. They are increasingly dependent on good intelligence, on good information. That's going to have to be more and more digital. That is the development we have seen in recent years. Mr Van Raak himself said in his speech: once intelligence services looked through a hole in the newspaper and nowadays they look at gaps in software. The vulnerabilities in software have thus become more important for the services. It can be done through existing vulnerabilities; that is absolutely true. Then there is already a solution, a Band-Aid, but it has not yet been used. Then the services could say: that way we go in. I think that's enough. I think it means in many cases that it is possible to do their job in this way. However, as the social risks and the digital intensity of this issue have increased, the social risk is also increasing. But I also think that you should keep it open and not say in advance that we are shutting down the possibility of using an unknown vulnerability. I am therefore very much in favour of a very good, careful consideration, but I do not think that we should close it in advance. That is actually the answer to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u12	Yes. A question from Mr Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u13	I agree with Mr Verhoeven that we are talking today about a balance between security and security. I also understand that you can't completely rule out, especially for secret services, that you can use unknown vulnerabilities. But couldn't you also say that in some sectors that is more dangerous than in others? Can't you say about, for example, waterworks? I'm just saying what... or other sectors in society: if we have to weigh up here, is it better not to use unknown vulnerabilities, just because the consequences of abuse are too great?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u14	Then you say it so to speak in advance. If you go through it, you could, so to speak, put in the law a number of examples where you should never do it. We have chosen the approach of setting up such a framework that the outcome will be what Mr Van Raak proposes, but that you leave open the possibility of assessing it on a case-by-case basis. So you give an extra degree of freedom to allow the experts to make a trade-off and not to say in advance: if so, then not. Then it would become too rigid. So you're actually leaving it to the organizations involved. But the outcome will be, of course, when it comes to waterworks, or an electricity network, or the banking network, and there it is, that it could be a massive breach on a lot of phones, on a very vital system. This contrasts with limited revenue in the field of security or intelligence. Then the trade-off will be that you report it as soon as possible, so it can be poemed. In that sense, therefore, I think the same thing as Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u15	Thank you. Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u16	Mr Verhoeven said it was also a political consideration. How can we pass that political wish on to all the committees and wise ladies and gentlemen who are going to decide on it? Is it not useful, then, to point out in a certain way that the sectors mentioned by Mr Verhoeven are for us sectors in which special care must be taken and where allowing them is actually 'no, if'?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u17	Mr Van Raak is a creative and resourceful Member of Parliament, with more experience than all the others, I would almost say. So, of course, that's what the Chamber can say. What I meant by 'political balance' was not so much this question and defining certain sectors, but the more general question of whether you want to use unknown vulnerabilities at all. I also gave an answer to that question, namely that I think it should be possible in principle. Next, Mr Van Raak asks whether it should not be reduced a little further, so that we do not do it in certain sectors. I did not choose to do so, because I believe that consideration should be made without prior limitation. But if the Chamber wanted it, of course it would be something that the Chamber could indicate. We can do that on any signal. But I did not want it in my proposal, because of the explanation I have just given, namely that I think that the consideration that is being made will lead to the desirable answer, precisely because the framework already gives so much direction to securing everything that is vital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u18	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u19	Mr Middendorp is next on my list, so to speak. He has asked an important question, which I sum up as follows. Can our services, police and defence, so the three organisations we are talking about here in particular, operate effectively with this balancing body and a framework? He also asked whether it could not be done better through sectoral frameworks. I am right in saying that there are only one such framework in one of the three cases and not at all in the other two. Isn't this about highly classified information? Does the proposal do justice to the nature of the investigation and intelligence work? In other words, what about the impact force? This was a great concern of Mr Middendorp. First of all, let me stress that this bill does not change the use of hacking powers. There is nothing in the law about the fact that services or the police should not use these powers or that this should be made impossible. I therefore agree with Mr Middendorp that the balancing framework should be in line with that harsh practice of intelligence, investigation and defence. However, the current balancing framework of the services provides that a found zeroday should be reported to the Commission on Notifications of Vulnerabilities. So with the services, the AIVD and the STUDY, it's settled. That committee is judging whether or not to keep that zeroday a secret. This is an improvement on the practice. That was because an individual employee of the AIVD simply made that decision, as I said to Mrs Buitenweg. That actually happened as good as out of sight or underground. On a very human, local level, that was just decided and the impact has grown. That is why we believe that this decision should be taken more broadly. That's basically the point. The Commission's Notices of Vulnerabilities of the Services has therefore reported as a starting point, unless. That is also important for Mr Van Raak, I think; he knows that too. Then you're actually giving direction. Notify, unless there's the starting point. That is an explicit statement: you always report, except in a very exceptional case. At that committee, the American framework is the starting point, the vulnerabilities equities process. The following questions are asked in this context. What is the point of the vulnerability to national security, one side of security? What devices have the vulnerability, the other side of security? Who uses these devices? How large is the use of these devices? What devices is the vulnerability in? Are consumers using the devices? Are the devices in our vital infrastructure or are they connected to it: electricity, bancair network, waterworks? How easy is it to find the vulnerability? What are the economic consequences of using vulnerability? The answers to these questions are therefore their framework. Next, the services supervisor, the CTIVD, monitors whether or not to make a proper balancing process. The services cannot, I say to Mr Middendorp, keep any vulnerability a secret. They can't do that now. They are now bound by a framework, as only of the three organisations. This bill includes a similar committee for all found zerodays, including those of police and Defense, who now have no regime to report these vulnerabilities. The committee shall be set up in such a way as to ensure that information is readily available and that it is properly coordinated and properly exchanged. So knowledge about the vital infrastructure, potential economic interests and security interests of citizens, privacy and such interests must also be taken into account. Finally. Mr Middendorp is right, however, that this is very secret information. It is only discussed in that committee in that balancing framework and not more widely shared with departments, supervisors or other role players in this whole. People with high clearance levels are the only ones who can access this information.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u20	Thank you. A question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u21	I do find it interesting. Doesn't that mean that these people can link that back to organizations? I can imagine that if at some point it is known that there is a zeroday because the AIVD uses it, which is discussed there. But it is not so that the police can also be brought to an idea: oh, now that the zeroday is here, can we use it too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u22	No, it is explicitly intended that it is about the choice that one of the organisations wants to make to use or not to use a zeroday and that a consideration is then made. This does not mean that there will be a kind of broader exchange between services at different levels: gosh, let us also use this vulnerability. That should really be limited to the case being discussed there. So that's confidential, too. The idea is also that this is the only place where a decision will be taken, but not that it will then lead to all kinds of new information flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u23	Thank you. A question from Mr Middendorp. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u24	Thank you to Mr Verhoeven for letting us all be here. I'm surprised... I am always surprised with him that the quantity is of this nature. But I know all the individuals. The quality is very high, and Mr Verhoeven deserves that as initiator.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u25	The question!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u26	My problem is every time Mr Verhoeven answers two questions in one go. The first question he answers is that he did just so is: do you need a proper balancing framework? Then he says, "Defense doesn't have that yet." So I go a long way with him, but every time I ask the question, which is also answered at the same time: is that body not very broad, that balancing body, and doesn't it have all kinds of consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u27	It is not as broad as in the two example countries I have just mentioned. There it is considerably wider, to say the first. Of course, it has a certain consequence. That is also desirable, because we want a number of different interests, a number of different perspectives, to be taken into account when choosing to keep a certain unknown vulnerability open or not open to use. If you want an interest in vital infrastructure, an economic interest or an interest of a security service other than, for example, the search services or the Defence Department to be taken into account, then you need to put a number of organisations in such a body. We have chosen nine organisations, which consist of two categories: 1. those who want to use the unknown vulnerabilities, and 2. those who represent the importance of completing that balance. This has eventually become a fairly limited group with three ministries, a Personal Data Authority and in addition to AIVD, MIVD, Police, Defence, also OM, FIOD and NFI, because they are also involved on a smaller scale in this whole. But it is. So it's not unnecessarily wide or big rigged. I actually think you could call it lean and agile, to stay in VVD terms too, then, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u28	In conclusion, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u29	Of course, Mr Verhoeven knows that such Anglo-Saxon examples are very appealing, but let us stick to what he is proposing for the Dutch situation. Then he says nothing changes, that there is nothing in the law that affects that capacity and force. But that is the question, because if you let several parties decide on it and bring different interests into it, as he explained in reply to Mrs Buitenweg, then they can suddenly come to very different decisions, and the decision you make with such zeroday vulnerabilities is crucial. If you look at that organ... that list sounds a bit long in my ears, but you can discuss it... I think there is a good chance that something will change. Maybe that's for the better. I know Mr Verhoeven as someone with intentions for the better, so I assume so too, but the question is whether the wide-ranging balancing body cannot make entirely different decisions than Mr Verhoeven himself might expect. That is also in line with a question I asked. This body may also decide against the wishes of the intelligence service that that zeroday should not be used. The combination of the broadness of interests that suddenly start discussing this, and the possibility of banning the use of a particular zeroday, is at least a change in how we deal with zerodays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u30	This is an excellent analysis and also obvious. I don't want to take anything away from that either. I submit this bill to anticipate a change that I outlined at the beginning of my speech. That change in two, three sentences summarized is the following. Digitisation has taken off in the last ten years, including on issues of digital security. In recent years, we have dealt with many laws to give new powers to the services discussed here, such as police, intelligence and defence. So yes, there is a big change, which requires a changed approach and therefore also a changed consideration. How'd the trade-off go? I will not say in an attic room by one person, but it was a very limited consideration that was made by the services, the Defence Organisation or the police organisation itself without taking that broader question. I say NotPetya, a huge ransomware attack that has made sure that really large parts of the economy around the world, including in the Netherlands, have been shut down. How did that happen? Because an intelligence service in the United States, known as the NSA, had at some point left open an unknown vulnerability that was picked up by a hackers' collective and deployed to temporarily disrupt large parts of the world economy with large costs, not only economic costs, but also health costs. There have been hospitals in Britain, for example, where chemotherapy had to be postponed because everything was flattened. So we have to deal with this for a while. I've outlined those ten years with a totally changed digital security environment. I admit that this is a new approach that involves a broader consideration. That it can influence a choice that the AIVD or any other service would like to make, is also correct. And that it could be different than that service on its own would want, is also the case. Does it work out as I expect? That was actually a bit of the end of what Mr Middendorp said. That's something I've learned in the last ten years. We do our best to come up with a sensible proposal as well and as well as possible, looking at history and the rest of the world, but I don't know exactly how it's going to work out. What I do know is that there will be more people watching and so there will be a broader consideration, which will also take into account the safety of the vital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u31	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u32	Maybe a little longer, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u33	Short, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u34	That is the key question, indeed. For then it is a question of assessing whether all these different interests are actually coming to the decision that does the best justice to national security, which is one of the criteria we use for this. That assessment is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u35	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u36	Even though there is much uncertainty in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u37	Yeah, but let's take a look at the spectrum of estimates. There are people who suggest that you shouldn't use any unknown vulnerabilities at all. There's a lot of people... Perhaps they are not necessarily here in this house, because I would wrongly push Mr Van Raak into a camp and I do not want that. But there are people, also people who really know a lot about it, who just say to me, "Kees, don't start with unknown vulnerabilities, don't do it." They also think that this is a proposal in which I actually give too much room, to show this to Mr Middendorp. On the other hand, there are people who say: safety above all else; we just need to give these services all the space. Then I say: yes, safety above all else, but what about the safety of waterworks and the safety of electricity structures? They really haven't been imaginaryly flattened in the summer of 2016. That really happened. That's real. Maybe it's not as tangible as we always think, but it happens. The Minister of Justice and Security is also here in this house. He has to explain regularly to the Chamber. I believe in Question Time last Tuesday that digital infrastructure is being disrupted by this kind of zerodays.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u38	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u39	I'll follow. Mrs Buitenweg also asked a question. She just touched that a little bit, you might say. She actually says: is there a need for a new committee, a new body, or is a framework enough? I think that a framework is a step forward, but a framework that does not lead to alignment and a real case-by-case balance... I think that's extra necessary. In that sense, you could say: you have a law, but you always need people, organisations and supervisors, such as judges, who then give an interpretation on a case-by-case basis. So in this case, you also need an organ to make that broader consideration. Different answers to the same questions within the framework can therefore also be formulated, depending on who you ask the question to. That's why these multiple angles that come together are so important. Mr Van Meenen, also a great expert in this field, asked a very basic question. He asked me, how does this bill make us safer? Of course, that's tonight's big question. I have said a great deal about this, so I will not repeat it again. We have become increasingly dependent on digital technology and this dependence also increases the importance of good cyber security. Criminals, foreign actors and malicious people can use the Internet to disrupt connected devices, connected to companies, people and our wrist via the Fitbit, via ransomware or hacking using a zeroday. This bill simply ensures, if the right balance is made, that evildoers are given less opportunities to commit cyber attacks. That makes people and businesses, and therefore our society as a whole, safer, so I say to him. Then I come to my second block. That's a shorter block than the last one. This is about the design of the balancing body. Finally, I would like to come to the market for the unknown vulnerabilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u40	Before you do that, there is another question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u41	You rightly complimented Mr Van Meenen. In that respect, I am still breaking my mind about this, but I hope you will be able to give some insight into it. I find it really complicated to get it. You have different angles. Are these the points of view from the different services, which need to be weighed together? Because there's one uniform framework. I still get that. And, of course, that can work differently for the different services, because they have different powers. But what are the different angles that you want to bring together?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u42	I understand that question. I need to be more specific about that. You could say that you have two corners of a head attack, which are divided into a number of sub-invading angles. The two main angles of attack are on the one hand Defense, Investigation Service/Police, AIVD and MIDV, the intelligence and security services, all three of which, from a slightly different responsibility and a slightly different approach, aim to protect the Netherlands from threats from evildoers. Whether they are cybercriminals or terrorists or state organizations, they have that as their main angle of attack. That is, as it were, the angle of protection against evil. That is the main angle of attack one, which is already falling apart in three different organisations with a specific purpose. The police have a search mission and the services have an intelligence mission. Defense has a defense mission. That is one side of the matter; it represents three organisations that also use all three hacking software or those unknown vulnerabilities. On the other hand, you have the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State and the Personal Data Authority, which themselves are not actively engaged in unknown vulnerabilities, but represent an interest, for example in the area of personal security, vital infrastructure or the economic stability of the Netherlands. These organisations therefore once again represent the importance of a secure digital infrastructure. Again, these are different organisations with different responsibilities. They come together and come to a case-by-case assessment based on a framework, a guide, and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u43	Finalizing, Mrs. Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u44	So these different angles are not so much about the different perspectives from the different services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u45	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u46	But what matters is that you want to add something extra, namely the perspective of society, which is currently not sufficiently weighted by the services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u47	Absolutely. At the moment, the three safety and protection organisations operate independently, except for the AIVD and the MIDV, which have had a committee and structure for a year and a half. But the others, more or less on the basis of their own assessment, make their own assessment. They will not therefore make that broader assessment. So that is what we have seen in the United States and in the discussion in this house about, for example, the police, which is using more and more hacking software to invade all kinds of devices without asking what that means for the safety of a few million mobile phones. That's what this is about. According to Mrs Buitenweg, the Committee on Notification of Vulnerabilities could also be improved, for example in the area of transparency. Would that, she asks, respond to the problems that have prompted this bill to be written? Of course, an improvement of the Commission's Communication Vulnerabilities in the field of services alone is a possible improvement, but then you do not do the broader thing I want to do, namely that it concerns all three users of unknown vulnerabilities. So I see opportunities to improve the current framework, the committee and the work force of that structure, but I do not solve the core problem that Defence and Police have no or undersized framework. It is also interesting to say that the Council of State completely ignores this approach. I say it anyway, because the Council of State is, of course, a very important institution, an important body, which advises and has written a very critical opinion. But they have completely ignored the fact that this is not regulated by the police and the Defense Department, while there is indeed a hacking power based on laws that this House of Representatives has passed. The Council of State has not spoken of this. This means that they have looked very narrowly at the field of the Minister of the Interior, namely the services and defence, the STPD and the AIVD. Of course, that is too narrow a scope, because this bill is about all organisations that use unknown vulnerabilities for their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u48	A question from Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u49	After all: then you start from the idea that there should be more. There is not even a balancing framework for certain services. That is where I go with Mr Verhoeven. I think that's a good idea. But this is linked to each time that is also filled out with a broad balancing body. The discussion that has just taken place shows exactly what my concern is, namely that in this solution, at the same time, a different way of deciding on these powers is being incorporated into the legislative proposal, in a very broad balancing body. So I wonder why these two are linked up. That is actually the same question as the one I asked last time, and whether it is not possible to achieve what Mr Verhoeven wants in small steps, without that very broad balancing body. I know him as a keen observer of what's going on in the digital world. I noticed that the Cyber Intel/Info Cell was created around the submission of this proposal or the discussion of this proposal. But those are steps that all go in the direction he wants. He also mentioned a number of them himself. Isn't that an alternative way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u50	I'd like to answer on two levels. Level 1: small steps in politics are beautiful but, with all due respect for the important work that Mr Middendorp is doing, I have not seen these steps from, for example, the VVD come about in any way. With this I am not trying to give the VVD in general or Mr Middendorp in particular a cat, but I stress that it is necessary to take real steps. In the context of a somewhat more far-reaching proposal, 'we would not do anything less', there is a slightly posterior nature at the time when those steps are not taken by the initiator of those steps. More importantly, the second part of the answer is: you can always pursue your goal in a different way. I too shouldn't be stuck with a cure. I've been looking for the goal to make the balance between safety 1 and safety 2 so you could sum it up........................................................................................................................................... I have opted for a framework and an organ. Mr Middendorp actually says: well, I agree with Verhoeven that it is a bit strange that we have three different regimes for three organisations and in two cases hardly a framework or no framework. He said that a few times. He agrees with me on this analysis. Then he says: I'm a little worried about that organ. He likes that on the broad side. He thinks it's a long list of names. And he feels that this leads to a different consideration than is currently the case. The latter is exactly the intention. Then you can ask the political question: do you want to? As far as the first thing is concerned, it's not like I'm putting down a whole charade or fairground stall full of organizations to have a nice chat about zerodays. No, these are the organisations that are at the highest level for the three, four interests that need to be weighed.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u51	Clear. In conclusion, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u52	That I didn't take any steps in that direction is absolutely true. I'll give that to Mr Verhoeven right away. I told you, he's a keen observer of everything that's happening in the digital world, and also of what other parties are talking about here. But the key point is simply that Mr Verhoeven wants to take a big step and that part of it is not a question of the length of the list, it clearly indicates that he does have a very nice picture of how this balance of interests can be made. Of course, I'll leave that image to him. But I'm not convinced that's the right thing to do. But I've asked you a few times. And now, just say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u53	It's perfectly clear. As a keen observer of everything that is happening in the digital world, I also know that Mr Middendorp has taken many other steps in many other areas of the digital field. So honor who should be honored. I'm not talking about a big step here today. I'm talking about a catch-up, a catch-up. Sometimes when you're behind, you have to take a bigger step to get back to where you want to be. If I compare it to a peloton and to cycling, but I don't know anything about it, then I say the following. There are now two countries ahead of us: the United States and the United Kingdom. These countries are among the frontrunners in the field of intelligence. They already have it. So if Mr Middendorp is afraid that we will have crippled services, paralyzed search organisations and a powerless defence apparatus, then I say: those two countries are proof of the contrary. So you can very well make a sensible assessment and be incredibly active and assertive. That is also the goal I want for the Netherlands, to join that digital breakaway, just to speak in the terms of the VVD. Mrs Buitenweg also asked about voting relations in the examples from other countries, with 15% of those present deciding whether or not to report. I have already made it clear that our proposal is simply based on a majority decision. Only that example is taken from a foundation, the Stiftung Neue Verantwortung, which has written an extensive report on the consideration you should make. That foundation has said that you could handle 15%, but we do not, also in order to maintain the balance. This is also something that touches on what Mr Van Meenen said. He said, "I have one final question. The explanatory memorandum contains more on the composition and organisation of the balancing body than in the legal text itself. Can the initiator explain why he made this choice?" Yes, that is, of course, a common problem of late, which is more evident in the explanatory memorandum than in the legal text itself. The explanatory statement is generally also longer than the legal text, as Mr Van Meenen himself knows. We would like to give the Cabinet some flexibility to set up that balancing body and to put it in line with practice. That is also in line with what Mr Van Raak asked. But we have indeed written in the explanatory statement who we think should be in it. The legal text thus offers room for further development through an AMvB. Moreover, this could also provide scope for doing something about the breadth of the body; I think only proactively with Mr Middendorp, who thinks the body is rather broad. Maybe that's a small step he can consider, but at least that's how we set it up. As far as we're concerned, this is how it should be. That is also stated in the explanatory memorandum. Finally, Mrs Buitenweg also asked whether some more guidelines should be given in advance for the consideration to be made. I understand the tendency to exclude specific cases or sectors, which we also understand is undesirable, as Mr Van Raak has actually said, but my desire is to rely on that framework, and on the various organisations that together determine that angle and balance, which will reduce that undesirableness in relation to the way it is going. Mr Middendorp says that he is afraid that the services will be able to use these vulnerabilities less and less often, whereas Mrs Buitenweg actually suggests that she would want it to happen much less than they are doing now. In that sense, therefore, we are looking for a good balance, and that balance is actually that balance, and that balance is actually that body. In that sense, therefore, we have arranged it in this way. Of course, you could always decide to give guidelines in advance, but we have made the choice to leave it really to the body on the basis of the framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u54	A brief question from Mrs Buitenweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u55	In what way will that be discussed at some point? Is there some kind of reporting of that at some point, so that we can also understand developments in that regard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u56	That's a question we're asking anyway, apart from this bill... We already have reports. We also owe reports; they're on their way. No, they're not here yet, but they owe us. I remember the discussion about CC3: when do we get the reports? There must of course be reports on developments. This does not need to be done at specific case level "we have used this vulnerability to serve this purpose'. However, the reporting should cover the number of times they are used and the category in which they are used. This should be reported at least ex post. This is something that politics also needs to understand at all about intelligence work. The supervision of the investigation services is now, of course, carried out by the CTIVD, and the JenV inspection also has a role to play, but the Chamber has a limited view of this. I find that a difficult thought in the responsibility of our controlling task. Finally, Mr President, I am entering the market in vulnerabilities. That's the last part. Mr Van Raak and Mrs Buitenweg in particular asked questions about this. So there is a market in unknown vulnerabilities. Should the Dutch government participate in such a shady market, with perverse incentives to pay young people a million dollars to search for vulnerabilities in the software and then sell them to the company, so that that company might sell them back to certain regimes? That's a question I've been in my stomach with. In addition, you have two main categories. You can buy hack software, and you can buy individual unknown vulnerabilities and exploits. When you buy the hacking software, you just buy a weapon that you don't know exactly what's in it. You could use that right away. You can use that right away, and so can you. And I could use that right away. There is a small manual and then you can just use it so to speak. Of course, you can also buy the unknown vulnerabilities yourself with a software translation to use. Then you know a lot more about that. Then you have a slightly different situation, because then you know more and you could report the discussion about whether or not to have a better time. In the first category it is not possible to report at all, because you don't know what you have at all, so you can't report it. Those are two different categories. We have said that in exceptional cases it should also be possible to buy ready-made hacking software. That may be necessary. But for this too, the balancing body should in the case of hack software decide whether it should be purchased at all and whether, for example, there are no better alternatives in the context of the question you always have to ask, namely whether a particular means is proportionate and whether you cannot use a lighter one to achieve the same goal. In any case, this solution ensures that the balancing process cannot be bypassed by buying hacking software. That is why we have involved it in this. So here too, there is a need for a balance to be struck. Mr. Chairman. That's the last question asked. That concludes my response on my part in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u57	Thank you very much for your reply. I think you have succeeded well, because Members remain seated. Of course, the members also have two advisers in trade-K. I did not follow the first part of the debate. So I'll see which minister I can give the first opportunity. That's the Home Secretary. We do that after the chair in box-K has been cleaned. Thank you, I'll tell the messenger. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations to answer the questions put to the cabinet in the first term, at least to this Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, the cabinet is here as an advisor: Mr Grapperhaus and myself. I'll take care of the questions that affect the intelligence services. A single question had also been asked to the defence colleague. I'll answer that, too. Of course, the Minister for Justice and Security will answer everything that has to do with detection and those sides. May I say on behalf of the cabinet that Mr Verhoeven has indeed done a great deal of work? He's shown perseverance. He is very well supported by someone who, I understand, will soon be waiting for another challenge. We therefore hope that Mr Verhoeven will continue to deal with all these issues in the same way and with the same expertise even after his supporter left. I have no doubt about that, but I really do realize how much comes to look at the issue of own-initiative legislation. By definition, that deserves to be appreciated. This initiative legislative proposal, the zeroday weighing process, aims to better weigh up the handling of unknown vulnerabilities. Those aren't just unknown vulnerabilities, they're the zerodays. Within the unknown vulnerabilities this is a bit the summum. Mr Verhoeven himself said that this is actually an invisible subject. Well, this is the most invisible within those unknown vulnerabilities. He therefore aims at a different way of dealing with it by the intelligence and security services, the investigation services and the Defence Department. For the intelligence and security services there is, of course, a legal basis, the Wiv 2017. That has just been said by Mr Verhoeven and some of the speakers. These services may make use of these unknown vulnerabilities for the deployment of "intrusion into automated work." The services do so if they investigate serious threats to the democratic rule of law, security or other important interests of the State. In the use of unknown vulnerabilities, services are based on the assumption that vulnerability is always shared with the producer or supplier, unless there is a good reason not to do so or temporarily. That consideration must therefore be made. That consideration is also taken very carefully. The services act within the framework of the Wiv and we have the supervisor, the CTIVD, who supervises it. The CTIVD has indicated that it is careful to find the notification process used by the services. The CTIVD has also said that there is no need for additional regulation. The Council of State has also criticised the initiative proposal, as Mr Verhoeven said. I think the checks and balances for the intelligence and security services are in order. The initiative proposal states that there would be an independent balancing body to consider the disclosure of those unknown vulnerabilities. That body would consist of a multitude of government parties and would decide by majority whether a vulnerability should be reported. In the government's view, this method of decision-making would lead to a large increase in the number of parties that could have very secret information. We really see that as a risk. In addition, it also leads to a mixture of two separate systems, which have traditionally been separated for a long time in our country: that of intelligence and that of detection. Finally, it may harm cooperation with other trusted services and thus affect the information position of our services. As you can see, I am using arguments that have also been used by the Council of State and the CTIVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u59	I have the feeling that the Minister assumes that something other than what the petitioner assumes is happening, because the Minister says that there is a mix of intelligence and investigation services, while we always keep them separate. As I understand Mr Verhoeven, there is no question of mixing, but there is one body that will see whether those hacks or zerodays are justified in view of the insecurity they bring to the Netherlands. This is quite different from the fact that there is a mix of information collected by the investigation services or the security services.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u60	I was just pointing out the risk that the cabinet sees in having such a body in which different services, intelligence services and investigation services come together, and in which information also comes together, which in itself is a risk, because we are trying to keep that information side as protected as possible. In that body it all comes together and we see a risk in that. You can, of course, make all kinds of agreements on this, but it does not mean that there will be a new body, in which different services are represented, which will be sharing information and weighing up matters, even if majority decisions are taken, if I have read the initiative proposal correctly, and that in itself does not fit very well in the system we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u61	I think the Minister is making a few too many strokes there after all. She says that all kinds of information is shared between services and organisations. As I understand it, that is not the case. There is one body that weighs things up. The information comes in there and stays there. The minister says she fears that the people who are selected and will have the highest level of clearance will eventually leak. That's what it's about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u62	Of course, I never assume that people will, but there is of course that risk. Mrs Buitenweg also knows very well that, for example, in the case of both supervisors we now have in the framework of the TIB, we have made very careful agreements and have worked to prevent this. By definition, a new body, which also involves other services that do not operate via the Wiv, represents an additional risk, especially when it comes to the care and foreclosure of precisely that type of information that the services and the two supervisors work with. Then I come straight to a number of questions that Mrs Buitenweg has asked, to give an introduction to how the cabinet looks at this. Mrs Buitenweg had a number of questions. She asked: are there not only different balancing frameworks for hacking? I have said that we have the balancing framework for the Wiv, which applies to the services. She said: are there not also different ways of assessing zerodays through hacking within that balancing framework? That is why it seems useful to me to outline what it actually is. There is a legal framework for the entry into automated works for the services, Article 45 of the Wiv. In addition, there is a common balancing framework for the intelligence and security services to report those unknown vulnerabilities. So you can say: there is a law and there is a balancing framework, which is a consequence of it. They are therefore not different balancing frameworks. It is a single balancing framework, which is always the same. In principle, the services report the unknown vulnerabilities. It may be in the interests of national security to temporarily refrain from reporting that vulnerability. That must be considered over and over again. There may be a certain threat. If you want to avoid materializing, you have to choose not to report at that time. A balancing framework is therefore used to examine the legal provisions, the operational considerations and the interests involved in reporting. In the Committee on Notifications Vulnerabilities, the committee that has to make that assessment, the two heads of department, the dg AIVD and the director of STIVD, are represented and they inform their minister about this. Regularly, at regular intervals, it is considered whether the reported vulnerability can still be reported. The CTIVD oversees the process and looks at the trade-offs that are made to report or not to report. The CTIVD, as I said, has spoken about this and says: I think this is a careful process in which no other legislation or regulation would be necessary. Mrs Buitenweg also asked in her first term: are the various interests and risks between the services being weighed in one way or another and how? I am talking not only about the security services but also about other services. It has been deliberately chosen to preserve the differences between the legal regimes. In one part, the Wiv, where national security is a very important argument, we have our own framework, in which the risks are weighed against that background. The information and security services and the police can, if it comes up and is desired, coordinate with each other. That's what the Wiv's gonna take care of. The Wiv regulates the coordination that is possible in the traffic between the services and the police/OM. Mrs Buitenweg also asked how the balancing framework would relate to sharing information about zerodays with allies and, of course, to obtaining information. But perhaps an interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u63	Well, finish the answer, I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u64	It's a pretty long answer, but I'd love to finish it. The services have a balancing framework and report it unless. They're sticking to that principle on the basis of the Wiv. Basically, they just report. So what are the reasons why we should deviate from that? Then I'll get to the point where the question was about. The statutory duty of care. The duty of care is about sources. Sources can be individuals, companies or other services. This duty of care is the foundation of cooperation and the trust that services must have in the cooperating parties. This applies to all sources, even if they are foreign services. If that duty of care is to be taken, I cannot say with enough emphasis that it is the basis of this work that is being harmed, then we can also damage national security, because next time you will not be able to count on that cooperation. That is really very fundamental. Services must be able to work together internationally, and also nationally, to identify and address security threats. If you do not comply with this duty of care, this will lead to a risk for the performance of the tasks of the services. That could be harmed if you accepted this proposal at the end of the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u65	A question from Mr Van Meenen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u66	The initiator has made a proposal to establish a framework or arrangement for services, defence and police. In her reply, the Minister makes comments on the meeting of these three parties, I shall say. But the initiator also solves a problem, namely that there is now no proper arrangement for the defence and police. He has also argued that the Council of State is completely ignorant of this. I get the impression that the Minister does not want to see the advantage of this initiative proposal, which is that we are going to deal with it now for the defence and police.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u67	Mr. Grapperhaus will deal with the police in no time. Maybe I can say something on behalf of Mr Bijleveld about the defense. I think the initiator was just right. He has stated that there is no balancing framework for dealing with zerodays in the Defense Cyber Command. That's the part of Defense that can work with this kind of thing. In practice, however, there was a working appointment with the STUDY. Thanks to Mr Verhoeven and his own-initiative proposal, this work agreement has now been formalised. An unknown vulnerability found by the DCC, or Defense Cyber Command, must now always be reported to the STUD, which fits in with the common balancing framework that the two services have. With this also the military, Defence, has a well-functioning balancing framework with the same starting point as the AIVD and the STIVD, namely: report, unless. So there was a work date. It was not true that this did not happen in practice, but Mr Verhoeven was right that this had not yet been formalised. That's what's happened now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u68	Finalizing, Mr. Van Meenen? Is that enough? Thank you. Then the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u69	I have a few more questions. I believe that most of them were Mr Middendorp. I also have a single question from Mr Van Raak. Mr Middendorp asked how the cabinet assessed the comments of the Council of State. As I said in my introduction, the cabinet can follow it well. In fact, the Council of State says whatever we argue, namely that it is adequately regulated for the services. The Council of State also points out that you need to be careful about stacking up in decision-making processes. That could affect the operation. That too is recognizable. The Council of State also says that the legislative proposal interferes with the existing division between the relevant ministerial responsibilities. I have just said in my introduction that we consider it really important to keep the intelligence and the detection separate, in every way. The Advisory Section says that differences in legal regimes have been deliberately chosen, because you sometimes want to make a different assessment in the context of national security than you want to do in the context of detection. We can endorse that, too. The Council of State also says that it would object if the proposed balancing body were to be assigned to the NCSC and thus falls under the responsibility of JenV. I have also just argued that we do not want to mix the framework of the Wiv with the intelligence and security services with other issues that are more related to detection. In short, the answer to Mr Middendorp's question is that we recognize ourselves in it. Mr Middendorp also asked whether the Jones Commission, the Wiv Evaluation Committee, could consider this issue. The Jones Commission is responsible for the evaluation of the Wiv. The committee's been on it for a while. She is independent, but of course she listens to what is being said in this Chamber and what has been going on in recent times. In itself, therefore, the committee can do so. The committee should actually report by the end of the year. Without notice, I assume this will work, but I have no indication at this stage that the committee has taken this into account in its work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u70	I'll come back to that last one. I would now like to say something about something that was also discussed in the interaction with Mrs Buitenweg, namely the balancing body. That seems to be the essence of what we are discussing here. I am curious to know how the Minister estimates what has just been discussed with the initiator in an interruption: if you put all kinds of institutions and people together, even though they do not share any substantive information, will they then come to other kinds of decisions? I wonder how the cabinet estimates that. Let me say it in my own words: it can be a very good ambition to involve a broad group of stakeholders and society, but it is very important for us that it also leads to other outcomes. So I'm curious how the cabinet estimates that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u71	Let me answer that from the intelligence and security services' perspective. There is a balancing framework, namely that there is in principle notification, unless this cannot be done for reasons which lie in the mandate we have given to the intelligence and security services. In practice, we can make that assessment very good and it is therefore not mixed with other considerations, for example considerations that are appropriate for the organisations that would be represented in such a body. In fact, you could then get a form of decision-making, where you are not sure whether things that you consider to be very important from an intelligence and security perspective and which are also legally framed in the tasks of the intelligence and security services could be weighed differently. So it's actually two considerations. The first is that it is well-protected and that'reporting unless' is the starting point and the second is that it seems to us to be a complicated issue to consider on grounds other than the task, framed within the limits of the law, which the services stand for.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u72	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u73	Yes, and I have only one question, a question from Mr Van Raak. I remember Mr Van Raak suggesting in the first instance that the cabinet or the ministers responsible for the services would think that there could be no conscious vulnerabilities in software at all. In other words, he suggests that the zerodays-like vulnerabilities are being used by others to see what's going on here. I can't rule that out at all. I therefore believe that it is generally important to carefully assess the risks of all software purchased. The characteristic of zerodays is that they are unknown, even very unknown, but you have to weigh risks, even when purchasing software. If it is your estimation that those vulnerabilities might be in it and that might lead to an undesirable situation, then you should be very reluctant about it. Anyway, of course, you can't do more than make that assessment. We will never be naive in that, I say to Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u74	It's been a while, before the summer, but the point of my question was to point out that we are now talking about the vulnerabilities we use ourselves, but that the stuff we buy is full of such vulnerabilities. This applies to the items purchased by the AIVD, the STUDY, the police and the army. The material and networks they buy in China, Israel and the United States are bursting with holes. Fucking full of holes! We're being spied inside out, only we don't know them. I'm 100% sure that's what's gonna happen. I didn't put on a good bottle of wine for nothing before the summer. That problem is infinitely bigger. Does the Minister realize that? Does the government realize that? Shouldn't we start thinking carefully about the possibility that we're going to make that stuff ourselves more often and not pay for stuff we're going to have spied on by the United States, China, Israel and who else knows?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u75	I think that part of the answer will be given by Mr Grapperhaus. The cabinet is very active, especially in this area, to face these things and to arm ourselves against them. The question is whether we can then become completely autharkic. I don't think so. It is very good that Mr Van Raak endorses that the cabinet also says that we should not be naive in this, absolutely not. We need to make very careful consideration of this. Maybe Grapperhaus would like to say a little more about that. I can say from the point of view of the services that they too are certainly not naive in this respect and that they really face these kinds of risks very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u76	Finalizing, Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u77	I understand they'd like that. Our AIVD is of very high quality, also internationally. But despite all the investments, he's still very small, really tiny. The idea that we could gain knowledge of the unknown vulnerabilities in the stuff we buy from the United States, China and Israel is a total utopia. That's just not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u78	Does the Minister have anything to add in conclusion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u79	No, actually, I don't. It was a statement by Mr Van Raak. I cannot go into details about how services do these things. But again, I agree that it is important to do this carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u80	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security for the answer. Just a moment, because the chair is being cleaned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u81	Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions from Mrs Buitenweg to which I will answer. I'll do it right away. The first question is whether citizens and businesses are allowed to sell information about zerodays. Yes. The acquisition of knowledge about vulnerabilities and their sale is not prohibited in the Netherlands. The legal limitation of research into software vulnerabilities is also not desirable. Such knowledge can contribute to the security of the Internet in our digitised society. However, the sale of knowledge to certain parties is undesirable. Due to the possibilities of international contact and anonymity on the Internet, it is difficult to control this market. The sale of so-called intrusion software is subject to export control.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u82	The tricky thing is that it always happens so fast when something is read, that it doesn't come in to me yet. In my view, I would have asked the following question and made the following comparison. Suppose I know that Truusje always has the back door open and I'm gonna sell that information to someone. Then I don't think that's allowed. This gives out information that can benefit a criminal. So can the minister explain why you're allowed to sell zerodays?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u83	The acquisition of knowledge about vulnerabilities is not prohibited in the Netherlands. That is the starting point. Suppose I learn about certain vulnerabilities in software. In principle, it is not forbidden for me to do anything with that knowledge. Then we should amend the law on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u84	I do not think this is the answer to the question why. I don't see what a vulnerability can do for good. I think the whole idea of these zerodays is that it brings with it mainly an insecurity. My question is: why is it possible to start trading in insecurity? I still don't get it. What's the Minister's answer? Why isn't this forbidden?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u85	That's because we have a pretty open society in there. I honestly don't see why you should forbid people from knowing at any time about vulnerabilities, in this case in software, and doing something with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u86	Mrs. Buitenweg, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u87	I think this is a very crazy thing to do. With a zeroday, people can do all kinds of things like sabotage and eavesdropping. Such actions can be made possible. I hope that this Minister, who deals with national security, will also see this implication. I do not see what the very great positive added value of that is. The Minister says that we can deal with something that can cause serious damage. And why is that allowed? Because we didn't forbid it. No, I get that. But I don't understand why we're not gonna ban something that could do so much damage. I don't see the right reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u88	I just said something about that. I said that the legal limitation of research into vulnerabilities is not desirable because you also want to gain knowledge of what is safe and what is not safe. I do not see the moral indignation either, because we want to know exactly what Mr Van Raak has just made a full statement about whether we do not have software in our society where there are vulnerabilities. So I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u89	It's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u90	I'll give you the floor in a minute. Is Mr Grapperhaus, I mean "the Minister" finished his reply?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u92	Finally, Mrs Buitenhuis. Buitenwé.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u93	It's not about not getting out. Because, of course, the moment I see a zeroday somewhere, it's good that it's also logged in so it can be solved. In fact, I'm about to ask if it could be mandatory for manufacturers to solve a zeroday. The minister says if there's a zeroday, it can be traded. That's a bizarre position, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u94	I don't think so. Yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u95	Good. Thank you. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u96	A vulnerability in such a computer system is meant to do something wrong with it, to break in, to listen in, to invade. By definition, it's meant to do something with it that isn't allowed. And you can trade it, according to the Minister. That's impossible, isn't it? Something that is meant to do with something that isn't allowed, you can trade freely, you can sell freely, and is also bought by the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u97	The point is that the government is quite limited in this. I do not know whether we should discuss this in detail, but of course we have already established this in the legal process of the Computer Crime Act III. And then there's another test on "Judge Commissioner" that hasn't even been mentioned tonight, and I've been noticed for the use by the Judge Commissioner. I can only repeat what I have just said: we do not have a ban in the Netherlands on acquiring knowledge about vulnerabilities and going ahead with it. There is no such ban. If you were to say 'we think there should be an initiative', it is not up to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u98	That's different. I understand that it's not illegal to track down something like this or take notice of it. But to mess it up! To make money with something that can only be used to do things that aren't right, which we all think are wrong. Natúúr, that must be banned. You can't just sit around and sell guns without a license, can you? You can't do that, can you? These vulnerabilities should not be sold. They're supposed to be reported to the government, to the police. If you sell it, then... I think it makes perfect sense for that to be banned.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u99	Your point is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u100	The comparison with the illegal sale of gunfire is really out of my league. Let me start with that. And yes, I can only repeat what I said before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u101	Good. I don't think you're getting any closer. One more attempt, I say to Mr Van Raak, and then I am going to ask if the Minister will continue with the answer. We're about to have a second term. Mr Van Raak.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u102	I'm doing this because I'm so... I'm just extremely surprised at this. That's why I'm asking you to do this. It's just really amazing that your knowledge of vulnerabilities... Those vulnerabilities can only happen wrong. That can only be hacked. It can be used to spy, to invade. All things we don't want that no one here in this room wants. And you can trade that freely. You can sell that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u103	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u104	You can sell that to the highest bidder. You can make a profit on that. You can sell it to the whole world. Surely that's for a Minister of Justice... You can't do that, can you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u105	I am Minister of Justice and Security, but Mr Van Raak wishes to forgive me. We do not agree, I think, on the point that what I have previously formulated in the Netherlands is possible and that the acquisition of knowledge and sales of that knowledge is part of our market. I have just made a few clauses, but I am not going to repeat them. I do not understand the surprise, because I believe that this was already known before this debate and has been known for a long time. Then you should say... Mr Verhoeven raised a complex issue in the proposal for an initiative. I have not yet complimented you on that, and I would like to congratulate you on this, Mr President. But if Mr Van Raak says that this should be banned, it would have been on the road to including it in an initiative proposal, perhaps linked to it. Then we can talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u106	You're being challenged, Mr. Van Raak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u107	The SP has long said: care is not a market. That's what the Prime Minister says these days. I say to this minister, espionage is not a market. It seems a bit strange to me if I have to make a law for that, but perhaps it is something for the next cabinet formation, let's just say: espionage is not a market.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u108	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u109	I take note of that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Buitenweg asked: is the Dutch State going to the hack software market, how many products are we buying there every year and how much money is involved? Let's be clear again, because we have to bring it all back into proportion. It is also in the coalition agreement, at least in this coalition agreement. The police only buy intruder software if it is necessary in a specific investigation. The Justice and Security Inspectorate's report on the use of that hacking power shows that seven commercial entry software has been deployed in the first year of that power. Then, in accordance with the government agreement, we are talking about the purchase of licences for the use of specific products in a specific case. It is therefore not the case that seven software packages have been purchased which are then used more frequently. There are also substantial amounts involved in these licences. I can't give you exact figures. This also has to do with the blocking of police detection methods and the importance of commercial confidentiality. I can give the Chamber a global idea. In the case of licences to be purchased, an order of magnitude of several million per year should be envisaged. Again, the use of that investigation in an automated work can replace other forms of police deployment. This will save resources to cover investment in automation within the budget. Mrs Buitenweg also asked how the balancing takes place in order to purchase incoming software. It can of course be dealt with in a specific investigation; I have already said that. If the D.A. determines that the use of an external supplier's inner insert software is necessary, it will be reviewed centrally in the Public Prosecutor's Office before purchasing in that particular case. In addition, the suppliers of such software are screened by the AIVD and those suppliers are not allowed to sell the software to dubious regimes. The operation shall be tested for functionality before it is used for the search. Finally, there was Mrs Buitenweg's question as to what we can do, both nationally and at European level and internationally, to improve the supervision of the market for incoming software. Certain cyber surveillance goods and technologies are under export control for their potential use in civil or military applications. This applies, as I mentioned earlier, to the export of technology for the development of the intrusion software, software that uses vulnerabilities in systems. Those goods are included in the checklist of the European Dual-use Regulation. A company established within the EU is obliged to apply for a licence to export such goods and technology outside the EU. The Netherlands rejects licence applications for those goods if there are concerns about the end-use in relation to human rights violations. A letter was sent to your Chamber on 16 July 2020 from my colleague for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u110	That brings you to the end of the answer. Thank you very much. That puts us at the end of the first term. I suggest that we proceed directly to the second term. This means that I would like to give Mr Van Meenen the floor for his second term. Thanks for that. Thank you. Then I'll come to Mrs. Buitenweg. Mrs Buitenweg speaks on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u111	Thank you, Madam President. I was actually a bit bewildered about this last part, because zerodays in my opinion are mainly things that can hurt, because evil people can use it as a back door to get inside us. I didn't have the idea that all of that could just be traded. That's why I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas companies are obliged to report data leaks and cyber attacks;]] [[Whereas, however, there is no obligation on manufacturers to remedy detected zerodays, which may result in data leaking;]] [[Whereas the continued existence of zerodays may have a negative impact on our digital security;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and inform the Court of Justice of the desirability and impact of an obligation to remedy zerodays,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35257-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u112	Thank you. I have one more motion, which I would very much like to withdraw when the bill is passed. So we still have to see how it goes in the answer, but if that doesn't work, I still want to make some progress. So I hope that Mr Verhoeven will forgive me for tabling this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the continued existence of zerodays offers opportunities for malicious people by allowing them to use them for their criminal activities;]] [[Whereas zerodays are sometimes instrumental for public bodies by allowing the use of hacking powers to monitor the actions of the evildoers;]] [[Whereas the decision or zerodays may continue to conflict with different societal interests;]] [[Considers that all public bodies, including security, intelligence, investigation services, using zerodays should have a specific balancing framework for that purpose;]] [[Calls on the Government to forward to the Chamber as soon as possible a list of all public bodies authorised to use zerodays;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that all these public bodies have a balance-sheet framework for the deployment of zerodays, and to have their use evaluated for two years at the latest, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35257-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u113	This is without prejudice to the fact that I wish Mr Verhoeven every success, especially in the vote. This will probably make this motion superfluous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u114	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Middendorp. Mr Middendorp speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks again to the initiator. That is what I say, as in the first term, also on behalf of the CDA. That's what I've agreed, Mr. Secretary, I say through the chairman. In the first period, there were actually two questions, and now again. Firstly, the balancing framework and the improvements proposed by the proposer, and secondly, the balancing body, which is part of it. On that last point, we are not convinced, although Mr Verhoeven has said with great passion that, for example, several interests must be represented at the same time in that balancing body. But that point makes it difficult for us to vote in favour of this bill. Mr Verhoeven mentioned the steps of the VVD. As a representative of an optimistic entrepreneurial technology party, I have already tried to take some small steps, but these are indeed small steps in the important work, the giant traces Mr Verhoeven has drawn on the subject of zerodays. The first small step is a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in certain situations, the AIVD, STUDY, and Defence may use unknown vulnerabilities in automated works (software);]] [[Whereas there are to a certain extent different rules and procedures applicable to the different services;]] [[Whereas the Government has set up the Jones Commission, which evaluates the Intelligence and Security Services Act 2017;]] [[invites this committee to examine, in the context of the evaluation, what improvements to the existing framework for dealing with unknown vulnerabilities in software are possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35257-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u116	In my view, this motion can also provide important information for the good work done by Mr Verhoeven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u117	Thank you very much. Then we have arrived at the last speaker. No? Mr Van Raak has also indicated that he does not wish to make use of his second term. I understand that the petitioner and the minister need a single moment. Shall we suspend for five minutes? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u118	The next item is the second time-limit for the initiator. I would be the first to give the floor to the initiator, Mr Verhoeven. Then I will give the directors an opportunity to give an opinion on the motions. But I assume that Mr Verhoeven, as initiator of the motion, will at first also make an assessment of the motions. I call Mr Verhoeven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u119	Mr. Chairman. I can do that in all modesty. Thank you for the contribution of the Chamber and also for the advice of both ministers. A few very brief comments on what has been said, in order to clarify my proposal to the political groups, which will, of course, have to make a judgement on this next week. The Minister for the Interior therefore stresses that it is well regulated for the services within its competence. That seems to me to be a good reason to arrange it for the police and the Defense Department as well. But it is not about that, because that is the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. So I do hope that the integrality of this proposal will be seen. By the way, Mr President, as stated, there has never been a conscious choice of sectoral separation, for example in the treatment of the Computer Crime Act III or the Wiv. So that seemed to me to be an argument that was at least not fully recognizable from the treatment I experienced myself. Of course, you can have an opinion on that. The risk that the Minister of the Interior stresses, namely that certain leaks would somehow be exchanged, is of course something you can simply organize. Recently, a C2C covenant has also been concluded, which takes steps in this direction. That's where it can be organized. So I wouldn't want to be too afraid of the risk either, because there is also, of course, a risk of all kinds of zerodays being kept open that lead to disruption of our society. Finally, on that point. The fact that the Defence Cyber Command had no framework and that it is now there and that the MIDV's work agreement now also brings it into the system applicable to the services can also be regarded as a mix-up. So I'll look a little bit for what the right mixture is. So I think it's a positive step, but I don't think the mixing is a problem at all, if you deal with it in a confidential way. I do welcome the fact that that step has been taken. That everyone as a service, police organization/detective or Defense just thought they could make that trade-off themselves, we saw the consequences of that, because that's what the NSA thought. And then all of a sudden, we had a big cyber attack from one of the vulnerabilities that they hadn't properly guarded. Let me just say a few words about the point that came out at the very end: the sale to third parties. That's not what this bill is about. You could consider this a mirrored situation. I did find that Mrs Buitenweg and Mr Van Raak were asking very legitimate questions about this. I thought the answer was... Well, at least that would be something more to say about, perhaps by the Chamber, as the Minister himself suggested. However, that is Mrs Buitenweg's motion, on which I shall make a brief comment. Mr. Chairman. And last but not least, about those markets. That is a subject that I think we should have a separate debate on as a Chamber. I do agree with Mr Van Raak that it is quite remarkable that we are actually okay with potential weapons because that is what you can really call them, apparently, for a lot of money. Apparently, we think that's a perfectly normal situation. Then there are the three motions that have been tabled. These motions are, of course, addressed to the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u120	That's what I was gonna say. I asked you to pass judgment, but they're addressed to the government. But maybe you do have a recommendation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u121	The added value of my recommendation is, of course, very marginal. But I would like to say that I found it very useful that Mrs Buitenweg discussed this trade in her first motion, in part No. 10, bring it forward. So I think that motion is very sensible. The second motion, in part No. 11, I actually see as a kind of back cover, and I also think that I appreciate that, of course, Mr Middendorp is in a very nice situation. He thought my step was a mega step. He himself submits a motion that you could summarize as a mini-step. This is a beautiful middle step, which Mr Middendorp should appeal to. I therefore hope that the VVD will actually vote in favour of this motion in the undesirable event that Mrs Buitenweg's motion is needed. In any case, we will have a framework for all these different organisations, but not a uniform framework, but at least a separate framework for everyone. Finally, the motion by Mr Middendorp and Mr Van der Molen on item No. 12. Unfortunately, the latter is not among us today, but he is a sort of preferred supplier of Mr Middendorp when it comes to tabling motions. Mr Middendorp was even allowed to speak today on behalf of the CDA. I've never had to enjoy that honor myself. I think that motion in itself is very positive, although the steps I see in front of me are somewhat larger than those of Mr Middendorp. Maybe one day we'll get together to a certain distance that we'll find desirable together. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your patience. I thank the Chamber and the government for the help, the questions and the advice. We hope for the best next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u122	Thank you very much. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Justice and Security, but only after the office has been cleaned. Thank you. I call the Minister on behalf of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u123	Mr. Chairman. I will deal with Mrs Buitenweg's two motions. The first motion, in part No. 10, on the desirability and impact of an obligation to remedy zerodays, I advise against. I would add the following to what I said about it in the first term. The Ministry of EZK already has the Roadmap Digital Safe Hard and Software. There is policy on responsible disclosure. And, let us be clear: as the motion has now been formulated, it is far from resolving exactly what is the balancing factor in the use by the government. Finally, we also have a lot of suppliers outside the Netherlands and outside the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u124	The motion in part No. 10 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u125	The judgment on the other motion, on the other hand, in part No. 11, I'll leave you to the room. I would like to say a few words about this. As far as the police are concerned, the Computer Crime Act III already provides for an evaluation, which has already begun. But for the rest, I can imagine the points in the various parts. In short, that motion is subject to review by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u126	Thank you very much. The motion in part No. 11: Judgment Room. Wait a minute, Minister. Mrs Buitenweg has another question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u127	My motion calls for an investigation into the impact of an obligation. I have the impression that the minister was just a bit easy to walk away: it's all no problem at all, we just trade those zerodays, all of which must be possible, the Netherlands is an open country and we have international... I think a lot of people are really worried about cyber security. I was actually hoping that the Minister of Justice and Security would do the same. The motion asks the Chamber to clarify the desirability and the impact. Do I understand that the Minister is not even prepared to admit that to us, because he is so convinced that it is all undesirable and has an undesirable impact? So research isn't even possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u128	We are now having a somewhat different discussion about cybersecurity. Let me say one thing: this cybersecurity is to my heart. That's way too weak a word. It is, of course, a primary responsibility for me. We are talking about something quite different here, namely the question, in short, whether you should eventually ban people from getting some knowledge about zerodays and then making money out of them. There are companies, suppliers who hire people themselves to detect vulnerabilities and such. This is, to put it this way, a market that word has fallen a few times on which the government should not impose strict regulation, in the sense that it is prohibited as a whole. I have indicated, in my response to the motion and in addition to what I said in the first term, that there are just a number of things that are being done, among other things, from EZK to adjust, where possible, that trade in knowledge about zerodays and to limit to the points where that should be done. I have said all this with my head in full; let me say that as well. I also referred to the export bans on intrusion software and the like. So we shouldn't imagine it now as if, with my head out of it and my hands in my pockets, I'm kind of letting it happen that our cyberworld is being affected by everything and everyone. It's not like that. I have made it very clear why there is no ban on getting that knowledge of zerodays and why there is a certain degree of regulation. In that context, I have advised against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u129	And my question in this motion is to put that on paper once again, so that we too, who apparently have less sense of it than the Minister of Security, can simply understand why it is perfectly legitimate and desirable that you should be able to understand zerodays. That's what it is. It's a research motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u130	Yeah, well, I already explained why not. I would like to repeat that once again, but I believe that the judgment is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u131	Clear. Thank you. I shall give the floor to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I should like to briefly discuss Mr Middendorp's motion with Mr Van der Molen on this route. My suggestion would be that perhaps a commitment would make the whole motion superfluous. I see Mr Middendorp thinking now. In his motion, he asked whether the evaluation committee, which is already working, could also look at zerodays. My first point is that this can only be done as far as intelligence and security services are concerned, and his motion also concerns the investigation services. Of course, that's not what the committee's about. But my suggestion would be that I should be able to ask the chairman of the committee, otherwise of course independent, whether it is possible for the committee to look at the zerodays, in relation to the Wiv and the services. Like I said, the committee's been going on for a while. It also undertook to report by the end of the year. I can therefore imagine that it is relevant for the committee whether it can still fit that into its work. But that is what I would like to do, Mr Middendorp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u133	I always think about the little steps I hope to make in this house. I do not really understand why it should be done by a different route than by a motion. We can just ask, can't we? In any case, the Chamber may ask the Minister to ask that committee to say something clever about some of the remaining doubts for me as to where the difficulties are, including from the cabinet to the initiative. That would at least help me, and perhaps Mr Verhoeven would. So maybe it's best if I just file the motion. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u134	That is, of course, up to the author.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u135	Then we would like to hear an opinion from the Minister on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u136	I've given my explanation. I said that by definition the committee can only do so as far as the intelligence and security services are concerned. But, yes, if I am prepared to pass the request on to the President and thereby make the motion superfluous, I can, of course, in the end, if the author continues, only say that I leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u137	The motion in part No. 12 gets judgment room. In doing so, we have an opinion on the motions that have been tabled. Thank you very much for that. We have come to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-09-23-tweedekamer-14.u138	I should like to thank at least the author, Mr Verhoeven, but certainly also his supporter, Mr Martijn van Vliet... Sorry, it's Marijn. I wrote it right down. I would like to thank them very much for all the work that has been done in recent months, but certainly also in the preliminary stages. It's quite a job. That has already been indicated by the cabinet members and by the members. A lot of compliments for that. We are going to vote on the bill and the motions that have been tabled next Tuesday. I wish Mr Verhoeven every success in this. That's what he's challenging me to do. I would like to thank the members of the Cabinet for their presence, the judgment on the motions and the answers to the questions that were there. I would like to thank Members for their input in this debate.
