ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u1	The Chamber will now debate the budget of Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation for the year 2021. I would like to welcome the Minister. I count 13 speakers on the list. I will allow all the interruptions with no more than two deadlines for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u2	The first speaker is Mrs Van Weerdenburg of the PVV, whom I give the floor to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know the PVV as a party with principles. The issue of development aid has been the subject of a text for many years. We want a total halt on government development aid. Let Dutch citizens decide whether they want to donate their hard-earned money to charity. The tax billions that are thrown every year in the bottomless well of the Third World would much rather spend the PVV in the Netherlands, on our own people. Every year our plea in this Chamber is addressed to deaf ears. Today, however, we are having this debate in a completely different social reality. At the beginning of this year, our country was struck by the corona pandemic, which brought public life to a complete standstill. The economy was temporarily locked down. Many became ill or even lost their lives. People either lost their jobs or watched their business go bankrupt. The economic damage is now enormous. Barely recovered from the shock we now roll into the second wave, while the end of the misery is not yet in sight. No one can calculate how big the economic and financial consequences will ultimately be, but that they will go beyond our imagination is certain. We're facing an uncertain future. All the more reason why it is very unwise to channel billions of Dutch taxpayers' money abroad. That money is needed here now more than ever. I would have liked to have seen that insight from this cabinet and from this minister. The PVV is therefore bewildered that the coronapandemic is being used by this cabinet to transfer more money to the Third World. No less than 73 times the term COVID-19 has been incorporated into the underpinning of all kinds of existing OS targets or programs. Almost all policy articles and budget items, and all the fixed elements of the left-wing bullshit bingo are shamelessly linked to the coronapandemic. A special coronataskforce OS has even been established within the Ministry. All this undoubtedly under the motto "never washed a good crisis."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u4	The PVV is text-resistant. That's how we know the PVV. Mrs Van Weerdenburg indicated that we have a new reality. The covid crisis shows that we depend on each other, all over the world. Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg see, because this new reality exists, that we depend on the strength of health systems in other countries?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u5	If Mrs Kuik means that we are dependent on Germany's ic system, I understand that. But no, I can't see that at all. I see that the Netherlands is suffering. The economy is suffering. There are already huge financial consequences and we do not know where this is going to end. Meanwhile, we're just closing billions of dollars away to Europe and the Third World. That's totally irresponsible. We are here in the Dutch Parliament. We must pay attention to the Dutch citizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u6	I think it is correct that the Netherlands is suffering. But we see that the whole world is suffering and that covid passes the whole world. Mrs Van Weerdenburg sees that Germany is helping. Does Mrs Van Weerdenburg also see that there are other countries in which health systems are so weak that it can go back to the Dutch situation if it is not under control there? Does she see that it is therefore wise for the Netherlands to look at where it can use its expertise to improve these systems, so that this does not go back to the Netherlands? 'Cause then we'll be even further away from home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u7	It would have been wise if the Netherlands had just kept up with its own health system and not all those billions of savings on healthcare. Then we wouldn't have to beg at Germany for ic-beds. It is truly godly that we are now in such trouble as a modern and rich country. Yeah, the PVV thinks we could have spent all those billions a lot better here. This confirms the trouble we're in. I wish we'd spent it on care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u8	I see an agitated colleague of the PVV. I am always a little disappointed that you repeat those texts that are not widely shared by this Chamber. It's really a shame you're alone in that. Let me remind you of the fact that we are well connected with the rest of the world and let me take a step straight to the second part of the agenda. We are now talking about development cooperation, and my colleague from the CDA has already spoken to you about this, and let me go to the trade side. Do you know how many percent of the trade has fallen down in the corona crisis of recent months? By 17%. Do you know how much that cost us? Twenty-three billion has cost us that. So if we don't look abroad and keep the look out, it cuts into our own flesh. With your story you just put Dutch jobs on the road. You're throwing our interests away; get rid of it! You are completely forgetting that we are a global player and that the Netherlands has become big because of an international trading position, by spending a lot on OS and by ensuring that we participate internationally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u9	First of all, Mr Bouali does not have to feel sorry for me, because as a PVV man I am used to being a crying in the desert. Secondly, I care that he doesn't think my story is innovative. I'll try harder next time. Thirdly, I say honestly: I simply do not follow you. Look, the corona pandemic happened to us and the whole world. Trade's down. But I do not see how putting away billions of euros of Dutch money that we need here is going to help to maintain trade. I just really don't follow that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u10	Indeed, I think that's your big problem: you don't see the whole picture. I'm gonna try to explain it to you again. I regret that you, as a PVV, always forget how important it is that we take and play that international role and that it benefits our well-being and prosperity. You completely forgot. You focus on a very small point by saying: we are throwing billions abroad. No, these billions are coming just after the Netherlands and I say that you are throwing it too gibberish. You are gibberishing Dutch business because we will not maintain our international position. You're gonna turn us into an inward country. I think you have already said once that you want to pick up some kind of fantasy drawbridge to completely shield the Netherlands. This means for the Netherlands, for our country, that we will soon have less prosperity. I call on you to continue thinking about the international role of the Netherlands. We are an international country, with the look out, and we have a lot of international interests. There are these interests in trade and in OS. Those interests are medical, as my colleague from the CDA has just said. Maybe you could take a look at that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u11	What I particularly regret is that D66 has an eye for almost all the interests of all countries in the world, except the Netherlands. And about this story, which I would supposedly not understand: I invite Mr Bouali to take a walk on the Square, along the catering companies, and then to finish the same story and see if they understand. 'Cause those companies are just gonna go fucking bankrupt. Here, in the Netherlands. Dutch companies. So you may want to trade internationally, but we won't have any companies in the Netherlands left to trade. So let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u12	We know that the PVV would like to close the borders and that the Islamists in particular should be kept out of the country. It is noteworthy that we had a debate here last week on combating ISIS in Syria and Iraq and that the PVV does not give at home. Now we are talking about development cooperation. It is the last budget we are dealing with here, at least, from this cabinet. It would be an opportunity for the PVV to step over the shadows and see what we can do together as a Chamber to better control migratory flows and perhaps give young people a perspective through reception in the region. Why wouldn't that be a chance? We have often faced each other, but perhaps this is a good opportunity to work together, to offer prospects for those young people in the region.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u13	The PVV has always been a supporter of reception in the region. Only we don't have to pay for it. There are, of course, a lot of very rich Arab countries that are barely spending a euro on it. The most effective way to deal with these migratory flows towards the Netherlands is to close the borders. That is the most simple, the most effective and perhaps the most affordable way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u14	That's remarkable, isn't it? Mrs Van Weerdenburg spoke just now about 'our business in the Netherlands, which must be helped in particular'. If we close the borders, we know for sure that we are going to destroy a lot of companies, because we simply depend largely on the imports and exports we are doing here for our trade and economy. So that doesn't help your business. And if you say 'yes, but we can use those billions better', then I have to admit that for covid, which Mrs Van Weerdenburg is always referring to, we are making 150 million. You know we're taking out 90 billion for care. So I would also like to ask Mrs Van Weerdenburg: put it in perspective. But don't forget to look outside the borders. Look what we could do together, perhaps, if we were to invest more to give these young people prospects there. Because that's the only way you're actually helping the people in need. And maybe you'll avoid that, but that's not my goal, but that's your goal... that you have to bring the people here to the Netherlands. For the closing, locking, of our borders, the PVV will never succeed; we have seen that for the past twenty years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course, Mr Voordewind himself and the other parties here are responsible for failing to do so. It is not that we are not doing our best. The PVV has always said: we prefer to help our own people first. It is their taxpayers' money; it is our taxpayers' money. About arguments such as 'gosh, let's give people a perspective in the Third World' and that we have to make it so good for them that they don't want or want to come here at all, I say: there isn't enough money in the world to lift poverty. If that were possible, that would be a good idea. The only thing I see and what the PVV sees is that it's getting out of here, when we really need it here. I assume that Mr Voordewind does not have a crystal ball either, and can finally mention a figure that will be used for the Netherlands, because for the time being we are still in that crisis. And the financial consequences are only getting worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u16	Mrs Van Weerdenburg, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u17	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had stayed at "never washed a good crisis." I resent it; the PVV resents it. I would like to remind the Minister of Article 20 (1) of the Constitution, to which she has sworn allegiance in her installation. It states that the government must ensure the survival of the population. For the sake of clarity, this means the Dutch people. In any case, we have seen that Minister Kaag has little message about the Constitution when she rammed the commercial treaty CETA through the House of Representatives without the two-thirds majority. However, I would like to ask the Minister to look very closely at the budget so that tomorrow, when replying, she can tell us which budget lines can be deleted or temporarily frozen, at least until there is more clarity about the final financial impact of the Corona crisis on the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The PVV hopes that this will be Minister Kaag's last budget. By the way, she hopes so, too. Because after three years of ministry, she's ready for the Tower, she finds herself. Lyrian was left Netherlands when she announced she wanted to lead the country. Saint Sigrid, descended to the polarized rabble in the polder. She is the favourite from the left, the decent diva of the bug brigade and the Wonder Woman of woke Netherlands. This messiah of globalisation is going to save us, frightened citizens, from the radical right, and that in six languages, hurrah! There followed unopposed campaign movies full of fanatic fans, sad images of the top candidate in a tokki neighbourhood. Idiot interviews with the message: support for Dummies and populism for paupers. Mr. Chairman. Madam multilingual minister has no idea what is living among Dutch people on the street. She will only be there if she takes campaign photos or if she has to show the Secretary-General of the United Nations around. Don't get me wrong, ambition is a useful feature in politics. I appreciate a little branie, too. However, if that turns into grandeur's delusion, then it is the duty of every parliamentarians to give the minister a much-needed reality check here. I therefore brought a large proverbial mirror with me today. Because when I look at her ministry for the past three years, I see no achievements that justify such a grandeur. On the contrary. Mr. Chairman. A short anthology. At the very beginning we had the shocking report on the abuse of Oxfam employees in Haiti, who were celebrating with aid money with underage prostitutes. Very decisively, the Minister had aid organizations come to the consultation table and solemnly promise that this would never happen again. She then moved on to the order of the day. No subsidies were withdrawn and there were no consequences for the GroenLinksers who had hidden this report in a deep drawer at Oxfam Novib. When the PVV questioned that, the minister got angry. She was more concerned about possible reputational damage from then Oxfam Novib director Farah Karimi than about the abused underage girls in Haiti. Then there was the billions of aid fraud in Mali, where 265 million euros of Dutch taxpayers' money disappeared, undoubtedly ended up in the deep pockets of the Malian rulers. Minister Kaag did everything in his power to keep this out of the open, and then put the Chamber on the wrong foot by charging a fictitious risk share, so it seemed as if "only" 13.7 million Dutch euros had disappeared, and then admitting in a back room that it had only been an estimate. Don't apologize to the Chamber. The money supply to Mali is still open. Another sad low. Recently it became clear that Dutch aid money has been used to finance terrorists on several occasions. In an attack by one of those terrorist organizations, a 17-year-old Israeli girl was killed. Rina Shnerb was her name, in the bloom of her life assassinated by Palestinian terrorists, funded by Dutch taxpayers' money. The attackers were found to have received salary from aid money and even walked around with passes from the Dutch representation in Ramallah. Here too, Minister Kaag has not stopped any subsidies. She's just continuing to finance terror. And as a blow to the flame, she was particularly concerned about the fate of Rina Shnerb's killers after reports that they would have been tortured. The Minister seized that news item just for a moment to lecture Israel in high tone. Madness. The PVV concludes that the Minister does not score a very good enough score as a figure for her ministry. wasting Dutch taxpayers' money is the only thing she's good at. Spend money on the most stupid goals, with all the horrible consequences of that. Money that mainly goes to multilateral organisations and NGOs with the right activist agenda, such as the one where the minister himself has worked almost her entire life. Because let's face it: that's what it's about, of course, in reality. Over the last ten years, some 50 billion euros of Dutch taxpayers' money went to the Third World. He's barely gotten anywhere with that. That does not seem to be the reason why the subsidy crane should be shut down. On the contrary, because it has become a earning model. Development aid may have started to elevate poor countries from the ultimate makeability ideal, but has now become a huge job-creation project for left-wing people. It's their livelihood. Sigrid's big subsidy circus: that's the real goal. Mr. Chairman. I very much hope that this will be the last time we have to deal with an OS budget in this House. For this lugging away from billions of euros of taxpayers' money to the bottomless pit in the Third World feels nothing less than criminal in this time of crisis. It's our money. It is now more necessary than ever in our own country, for our own people, for our own businesses, for our own survival. I call on the people at home to vote in March. Make the PVV the biggest. Then we're gonna take care of that for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u18	I stumble upon the word 'criminal', because this really cannot be done, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. There is simply a budget here, the BuHa-OS budget. You can find some of that. I have to say, I didn't like that whole string of yours at all. I would also like to explain to you the situation, because you are sitting here for about three and a half years as long as I am. In this Chamber we vote on treaties and, for example, laws. They will then be adopted by this Chamber. That is simply very constitutional and very democratic. CETA has therefore been adopted by this Chamber and is now in the Upper Chamber. That's how it works. That's how it works with the BuHa-OS budget. It's right here. We'll talk about that. You can put accents on that. You may find that the money can be better spent. That's different, but it's not criminal. It is simply a budget that we want to use here with great support from this Chamber to ensure that the weakest in the world can still have a little hope. If that doesn't matter to you, I'll leave it to you. I think a large part of this Chamber thinks that's important. That is also how democracy works, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u19	I don't really hear a question. Of course, it's about the tone that D66 falls over. Well, we think it's criminal that we let this happen. That's our qualification for that. Of course, D66 has a different qualification for that. Let's talk about CETA. We said at that time that the law should have contained a clause that would require a two-thirds majority, because the CETA Treaty deviates from the Constitution. We have tabled an amendment to that effect, together with the SGP. In my knowledge, D66 voted against it, so you do not have to blame me for not doing what is constitutionally necessary here, because it is D66 who has not respected the Constitution in this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I shall then give the floor to Mr Weverling of the VVD, after the chair has been disinfected again. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a bit of a frog in my throat. Don't worry, I just feel healthy. In March this year, it was as if our globalised world came to a halt. Planes were on the ground, factories locked their doors and people stayed in massively. At a time when we are more connected than ever, everyone withdrew. External trade was also hit hard. In a short time, 23 billion in export value evaporated. Our exports decreased by 9%. Many companies that depend on parts from abroad were in trouble. Many companies dependent on foreign sales were subject to restrictions. By now we already know a lot better how to handle the virus, but no one knows when this pandemic is over. That means that we must now learn the lessons from the corona crisis. What vulnerabilities did it expose? How can we, as a trading country, get stronger out of this crisis? If we want the Netherlands as a trading country to emerge stronger from the corona crisis, we must begin to recognise the importance of foreign trade for our country. This means that we have an important position in the world. It's obvious. It is not for nothing that our innovations and products go all over the world and Europe's largest port in the Netherlands can be found. But what are we doing this for? Foreign trade is not an end in itself but a means of achieving an end. That goal is a prosperous Netherlands. With the money we make from foreign trade, we can finance our prosperity. A third of our prosperity comes from exports and a quarter of the labour force depends on exports. 91% of exporting companies are SMEs. Trade is therefore not something for large multinationals; trade means work for SMEs, jobs for people and the financing of our prosperity. That is why it is so astonishing that many parties in this Chamber can easily think about this, as if the prosperity of free trade has come to us and we do not have to do anything to hold on to it. The shame of trade lies deep with these politicians. This attitude damages our country and damages our prosperity. Instead, we need to work to get our trade economy out of the crisis even stronger. This means that we need to work towards a reduction in external dependence, such as China, the creation of fair trade rules and the conclusion of fair trade agreements. It also means working on a trade policy that better puts our top sectors and SMEs in the window.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr Weverling's resounding pleas, as we're used to them from him. We share, even though that might surprise Mr. Weverling, a whole part of that plea. Because, of course, development is an important goal, provided it is fair and everyone can benefit from it. But here we hear roaring words about the future of the Netherlands and the well-understood self-interest. We've talked about that before, in relation to the AIV advice. On the basis of that AIV opinion, the cabinet actually comes up with a compromise that we have previously exchanged. Then I'm still very diplomatically expressing myself. I have here a letter in the hands of the entire polder, including from VNO-NCW and SME-Netherlands, sectors to which Mr Weverling just referred. They say that maintaining the current budget for OS to support partner countries with sufficient resources is crucial for sustainable development. This level of ambition does not, in any case, correspond to a reduction in the budget available for OS, which is already historically low. I would very much like to hear Mr Weverling's view of this clear language from the polder.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you also for the fact that Mrs van den Hul has now come to the understanding that trade is indeed very important, because that is how we pay for schools, education and a lot of people in this country. As regards the letter from the employers' organizations, I believe that this letter shows very clearly that aid and trade can go hand in hand and that this is extremely important. We have a great deal to offer the world and we are actually failing the world by seeing it as two different things, so help as something separate and trade as something separate. While that can go much more together. I think that's what's being argued.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u24	What is argued here is that even if we have a lower GNP, or GNI as we call it here, the level of ambition must remain at its level, because it will ultimately harm us all. If things don't go well in the rest of the world, things don't go well here either. This applies not only to the OS budget, but also to the well-understood self-interest that is so important for the VVD. What this letter is about is that the budget should not fall. It does. So my question to the VVD is: how do I calibrate these two with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u25	We are a very generous country. I have argued before that I believe we are the seventh donor in the world. We have to earn it before we can spend it. Everyone will agree to that, including in the Malie Tower. Let's just keep the economy going. It has been agreed that less money will be spent on aid in the event of a shrinking economy. Because you can't spend money that isn't there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u26	Another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u27	Rounding up. I thought we could interrupt in threes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u28	No, we'll do it in two.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u29	In twos? Then I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Weverling, proceed. Oh, first of all, an interruption by Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u31	The rhetoric of the VVD is well known and therefore not surprising. However, I would like to zoom in on what Mr Weverling said at the end, which is encouraging. He said that we should be less dependent on China. Has a new sense of reality come down to the VVD, following the corona crisis, when it became clear that we can't even produce our own mouth caps? We quickly built that capacity, because we thought: we can import it, but it is useful if we can produce it ourselves. Is that what Mr Weverling means when he says: we should become less dependent on China and perhaps also on other countries when it comes to strategic products? We must not only rely on free trade, but we must also work on our own production capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u32	Sure. I agree with Mr Alkaya: we need to be less naive in this and we need to look closely at where these vulnerabilities are and to reduce that dependence. That does not mean that we are in favour of a protectionist trade policy. But it is a level playing field. We need to see what we can produce within Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u33	We can see what we can produce in Europe. We can do research on this, but we must then also have an opinion on what we should be able to produce in Europe ourselves. What should we be able to take care of ourselves when we need it? I don't think anyone would have thought, for example, that we would need masks so quickly and in such large numbers. Does Mr Weverling therefore agree with me that we should also ask the cabinet what his view is on this? Should we not make some kind of analysis of the products and production capacity that we have lost in recent years through free trade? Shouldn't we be building that ourselves? On this basis, we should develop some sort of vision of the economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u34	Interesting. It seems as if Mr Alkaya has already seen my speech. So I'm gonna leave him in despair for a while. But my colleague, Mr Veldman, has already advocated, in an initiative, for example, that medical matters should be much less dependent on abroad and that much more should be done within the Netherlands and within Europe. I shall come back to that in a moment in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u35	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u36	If we want the Netherlands as a trading country to emerge stronger from the corona crisis, we must look at our dependencies in addition to recognising the importance of world trade. Because if the impact of the corona crisis on the world economy has taught us one thing, then it is that our trading economy is more vulnerable and dependent than we thought. This dependence is not only about the now well-known examples such as mouth caps, but is wider. For the production of a number of key issues, we can reduce our dependence by exploring a European alternative. This certainly does not mean retreating behind the dikes and striving for a protectionist trade policy. Nor does it mean that we are putting an end to the open economy, which has brought us so much prosperity. It does mean, however, that we need to work on possible relapse options. That's really necessary. Some commentators are already warning that China's economic position is further strengthened as a result of the corona crisis. The corona crisis is therefore a stress test which makes our dependence on China and other countries clear. The European Commission has started to identify Europe's dependencies in order to achieve more strategic autonomy. My question to the Minister is what direction it is going to take. In addition to the European analysis, is the Minister prepared to conduct its own national investigation to identify where our dependencies lie in our relationship with China? In what period can we expect the initial results of the ESC opinion on the desirability of reshoring in the manufacturing industry, in order to improve the competitiveness of our industry? Only the recognition of the importance of world trade and the reduction of our dependence is not enough to allow the Netherlands as a trading country to emerge stronger from the corona crisis. One of the biggest and most important challenges in this respect is to achieve a fairer trading system with equal rules and a level playing field. The VVD is convinced that the Dutch economy and the Dutch business community are resilient and innovative enough to win the international competition, but that is impossible if you start with 3-0 behind before the game. That is why we need to move towards a system of fairer trade with a more level playing field. This is crucial for our prosperity, because it cannot be explained that Dutch companies have fewer rights or more obligations than competitors in the same sector abroad. It is time for us in the Netherlands and in Europe to shake off our naivety. One of the examples in which the inequality of the playing field becomes painfully apparent is the procurement market. The European procurement market is the most open procurement market in the world. That makes sense: the more bids, the better the final price and quality. But no matter how open our own procurement market is, the door remains tight for European companies in other countries. Meanwhile, these companies are also being squeezed into the European market because many countries outside Europe are helping their businesses with state aid and thus enabling them to offer below cost in Europe. It can't go on like this. We are stripped by our own naive attitude. The most important solution to this unequal playing field is the IPI, the International Procurement Instrument, which provides artificial solutions and storage on top of unfair bids. It is a good thing that the cabinet is now calling for a stronger implementation of this instrument. Does the cabinet also argue for the complete exclusion of certain bids in order to prevent companies that have geopolitical or strategic reasons to become active here and that it is not at all about profit? This process must be concluded as soon as possible. What is the status of the IPI? And what does the Minister do to force a breakthrough? The public procurement market is not the only area that calls for fairer rules. Also in areas where we in the Netherlands impose rules on our entrepreneurs or try to help our entrepreneurs, it is important that we continue to pursue a level playing field. An example of this is the policy on international corporate social responsibility. The VVD recognises the importance of corporate social responsibility, but aims to ensure that international rules in this area are made only in a European context. Does the Minister share that analysis? Another area in which a level playing field is crucial is the newly to be established Invest International. Through Invest International, we can and must enable our entrepreneurs to compete internationally. This means that Invest International must also finance larger projects and commit itself to improving access to concessional funding in order to be globally competitive. Does the Minister agree and, if so, does she agree that Invest International's maximum project size should be raised? Nowhere is the level playing field as large as in our trade relationship with China. The examples are numerous and often discussed. The continuous violation of the intellectual property of Dutch companies, which now even advises entrepreneurs to turn off their phones at important meetings. The problem of artificially low public procurement has already been identified. Chinese monetary policy, which depends on political will and is used to artificially improve the Chinese export position. The Chinese status of developing country in the WTO, which gives China special advantages over other countries. It is important to realise that we are not only dependent on China, because China is also dependent on us. Without access to our tenders, no artificially low bids to gain strategic market share. Without cheap Alibaba products that flow unhindered to the Netherlands, no demand for Chinese production. Without naivety when it comes to industrial espionage, no theft of our intellectual property. This mutual dependence is also a weapon that we can and must use to achieve fairer trade rules. We, the Netherlands, cannot do that alone. It is important that we build a broad alliance of like-minded liberal market economies. Political uncertainty in the world hinders this, but should not be a reason to wait. Is the Minister prepared to reflect on how such a broad international coalition could be used to move China, through proportionate countermeasures, for example in the form of tariffs or exclusion in procurement, to give up many of the wrong benefits that the country now enjoys and thus to stop developing country status? A strong trading country spreads its opportunities and enables as many entrepreneurs as possible to enter the international market. This means that SMEs must be given a central role in our trade promotion, because 99% of our businesses are SMEs. If we want to emerge stronger from this crisis, we must also enable them to open and find markets. This can be done in two main ways: to strengthen the provision of information to SMEs and to provide more support to entrepreneurs who want to take the step. Research shows that SMEs in particular have a huge need for clear information. Now that many borders are closing again, this need for clarity is growing. Can the Minister explain how the government can better meet this need? Despite the effort to simplify, many entrepreneurs still experience the financial instruments as confusing and complex. Much support is also aimed at export promotion rather than the international marketing of knowledge or services. Is the Minister prepared to explore how to make funding more accessible to SMEs internationally? Mr President, so far as we are making our money: foreign trade. The second part of my story is about a policy area on which money is mainly spent: development cooperation. Not only in the field of external trade, we must learn from the corona crisis, but also when it comes to development cooperation, Corona has exposed a number of issues. The VVD has been advocating transparent and effective development cooperation for many years. In addition, the budget will fall considerably in the coming years. This requires a more focused policy than ever before. Effective and transparent development cooperation must be our objective. We are one of the few countries in which aid and trade are combined in one ministry. To make that a real success, these two separate worlds need to become much more one. That is why we need to use the knowledge and skills of our business much smarter. This can be done, for example, by making developing countries self-sufficient. The corona crisis has taught us how important it is to be self-sufficient. This applies primarily to the most basic necessities of life, such as water, seeds and food. These are also exactly the points in which the Netherlands has enormous expertise. It is therefore infinitely sinful that we do not share that expertise sufficiently. Unfortunately, the shame of trade has also penetrated this. Our own business is hardly put in a position to contribute to development cooperation, while there are many examples of Western progressive countries linking their development cooperation in a much smarter way to what their economy is strong in and distinctive in. That false modesty is misplaced, unnecessary and counterproductive. Does the Minister share that, especially now that we want to get stronger out of the corona crisis, it is necessary to put the taboos aside on this point and finally look at examples from countries such as Sweden, Germany and France, with which we can use connected aid companies from our top sectors to make developing countries self-sufficient, i.e. through aid and trade in one hand?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u37	I have a simple question. Why is the VVD for government development aid? Why don't you leave that to private citizens? You yourself said that the Netherlands is a very generous country. That's right. In international comparisons, we are at the top, sometimes even at the top. After the earthquake in Haiti, the Netherlands was even in second place in terms of private donations. I would think that, as a liberal, you would leave this with the Dutch citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u38	I go along with a great deal of what Mrs Van Weerdenburg says. We do believe that emergency aid is really a matter for our government and that we should not let the needs of the world be ignored. Only, of course, you can still discuss with each other what the definition of "emergency aid" is. Indeed, from the budget for development cooperation, a great deal of money is going to go to a lot of other things than just emergency aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u39	Yeah, that's the left-wing bullshit bingo, as I called it. It is good to hear that the VVD also wants to improve on this. It is also true, of course, that burden relief also correlates with a higher generosity of individuals. So that would be another solution. Anyway, how about we table a motion together to end this billion-dollar waste for once?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u40	At least I'm going to read your motions with a lot of interest. I do not expect it to be possible for this cabinet period to actually support these motions. You're talking about relief. There have, of course, been many tax cuts. In addition, we have also made a lot of other contributions from the government to get through the corona crisis. As far as we are concerned, development cooperation should focus more specifically on emergency aid. In addition, aid and trade must be seen much more as one. That was my speech just now. What are the good points of the Netherlands? How can we actually help the world? Actually, we think we're failing the world by not putting this in the window anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u41	I'm being triggered by a more specific commitment to emergency aid. Does Mr Weverling not agree with me that emergency aid is often short-term and that we also need to think structuralally about how we offer people a perspective, also in order to prevent people from having a perspective there and that is why they are going to another country? Because that's not what the VVD wants either. I think we should also help girls go to school, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u42	What matters is that a country, whatever country in the world, will benefit from a well-functioning democracy and a good economy. In this economy, it is very important that people are self-sufficient, that they can produce their own food. Well, that's something we in the Netherlands are fortunately very good at. Fortunately there is the beautiful programme Seed NL. Worldwide, 40% of vegetable seeds come from the Netherlands. In addition, we are doing very well. Furthermore, we do very well in agriculture and horticulture. And I am not talking so much about exporting products, but about exporting knowledge and skills. If we can help countries with that, it would be my preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u43	I think it's also very smart to use your expertise and help other countries with that. But it is also useful that people know cause and effect and education is just a very important step. We see that in countries it is sometimes very weak. I hope, however, that Mr Weverling agrees with me that it is important to invest in this kind of thing too and not just to look at emergency aid, but also at structural improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u44	I understand what Mrs. Kuik is saying. Of course, reducing migration is a very important point for us. However, in the end, with 17 million people, we cannot serve a world population of 9 billion people. So there's always self-interest in that. Unfortunately, our economy is shrinking due to the corona crisis. As a result, less money is available and therefore less money is available for development cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u45	I would like to discuss this with Mr Weverling for the simple reason that I know him; we have been in the coalition together for some time now. He just said a bit proud that we are often in the top ten positions, even when it comes to OS. I would also like Mr Weverling to reflect on all these issues and issues on development cooperation. For example, we are talking about legal certainty and ensuring that we work together in certain countries and strengthen the judicial chain on the reception of refugee children, on ensuring that education is strengthened in certain areas. In the end, a good legal certainty in many countries is a bit in the Dutch interest. Right, Mr. Weverling? A good judicial chain also ensures that Dutch business is doing well there, to speak in your vein. As far as I am concerned, we also do this because we want to help people, but helping those countries also fits in your style, because the Netherlands also benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u46	In a way, I can agree with what Mr Bouali says, but I do not think I have said that I am enthusiastic about the fact that we are in the top ten with the spending of development money. We are the seventeenth economy of the world. If we also become the seventeenth donor, I think that is much better to justify. Then we can place ten more seats and as a small country we can also be proud. Mr Bouali identified legal certainty issues. Sure, he's right about that. This cabinet, I think, has a good policy for that. For those countries which have an interest in this and in which we have an interest, the policy is good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u47	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u48	Thank you. Not only should our national policies be more effective, but European development policy is still far too fragmented and does not have the right priorities. More reports from independent supervisors such as the European Court of Auditors are published every year, recommending that we start working more effectively. Instead of numerous small projects, it makes much more sense to carry out a more limited number of projects focusing on economic development. Anti-corruption requirements are necessary in order to further stimulate economic development. Can the Minister promise that she will make every effort to ensure that the recommendations of the European Court of Auditors on these issues are taken on board one-on-one in European policy? In addition to effective policies, transparency must also be a spearhead. People have a right to know if their taxpayers' money ends up in the right place. This has gone wrong a number of times in the past year. In order to avoid such mistakes, full transparency is necessary. What lessons does the Minister draw from the examples of wrongly spent development money that we have seen coming over in the past year? What improvements will it make to the system of checks-and-balances before subsidy is paid out and to the system of recovery of funds when this has not come to the right place? Effective and transparent development cooperation: that is our objective. We are currently one of the most generous countries in the world. We will continue to do so after the forthcoming austerity round. Unfortunately, that generosity is also being abused. Indeed, some developing countries still refuse to participate in the withdrawal of their nationals who are not entitled to asylum. As far as the VVD is concerned, we use our development relationship to force those countries to cooperate in return. One of the ways in which this can be done is through the post-Cotonou Treaty currently under negotiation between the European Union and African countries. Does the Minister share the VVD's view that this treaty should give African countries the duty to take back migrants? If so, will it not support the Convention if the agreements on return cooperation are not sufficiently concrete and binding? In any case, what is not effective, transparent or in our own interest are the many millions that flow from this minister's budget to all kinds of Dutch activists' clubs and NGOs. These NGOs then use this money to launch protests and procedures against the same minister's policy. The examples are numerous. Think of Both ENDS, which has spent over EUR 9 million on the grant infusion this year to fight against the investment treaties that the minister wants to sign. Think of Milieudefensie, which is slurping over EUR 8 million this year, while at the same time trying to break off the minister's trade policy with exciting and often incorrect information. Or think of SOMO, which apparently has so little support in society that 3 out of 4 million euros comes from the government. That public money is then used to undermine the tax plan of this cabinet, in which this minister is present. Let one thing be clear: the VVD strongly supports contradiction. Contradictions are part of a healthy democracy. Counterfeiting by launching critical campaigns or by organising demonstrations is a fundamental right. Contrary does not mean that we have to cut all ties with the organisations concerned, but we do not have to buy in our own contradiction? How can it be justified that all this is financed by Community money? Why should the taxpayer contribute to organising politically-colored opposition to the policy of this cabinet? Why do we maintain organisations that are almost entirely dependent on public subsidies and therefore apparently do not have sufficient support in society for their message? My question to the Minister is: can she explain why the whole of the Netherlands should contribute to the state-supported and funded criticism of its policy? Doesn't civil society in countries where this is really under pressure need this subsidy much more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u49	Let me remind you, Mr Weverling, that you have run out of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u50	Yeah, I'm gonna finish up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u51	You will conclude, but I also see Mrs Van den Hul standing ready for an interruption. I am now giving her the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I hear Mr Weverling coughing all of a sudden. Cheers, Mr. Weverling! I've got to get something off my chest. We have had an exchange of views on whether or not the swords crossed over or whatever you would like to call it, but I find it difficult to reconcile. On the one hand, I hear Mr Weverling say that we are very much in favour of a civil debate, for a civil debate, for criticism from civil society. And on the other hand, I hear him say, "But we're not gonna pay for that."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u53	That's right. We're not gonna pay for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u54	Isn't that pretty hypocritical to say? If clubs call out things that the VVD doesn't like, then we're not gonna pay for it, while if they're clubs that mention points that are consistent with the VVD's view, we're gonna have to finance it. That's not consistent, is it? You can't choose which argument you want and don't want? Isn't that cherrypicking?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u55	The point is that we don't have to buy in our argument. There are simply projects that are funded to organise contradiction to government policy. That won't be necessary. Counterfeiting is fine. If someone wants to go by the door to collect and therefore want to raise extra budget in order to be able to conduct even larger campaigns against cabinet policy, that's fine too. We live in a free country. Everyone can demonstrate. That's a really big good. But we do not have to buy projects with tax money, especially at this difficult time, with which we are going to give ourselves a great deal of contradiction. I just said something about trade agreements. We think it is extremely important that these trade agreements are there, because they also indirectly concern our prosperity and ensure that we can pay for our schools, our teachers, our hospitals and so on, everything that we find extremely important in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u56	We don't buy projects. We subsidise civil society. It is really a very important point that we are talking about here. We subsidise civil society, because we live in a civilised country, which considers it important to hear different voices. We subsidise civil society, because we think it is important that, when we talk about trade agreements, we include NGOs that are involved in ensuring human rights, environmental rights and labour rights. Very often that does not appear to be the case. That is what we need these NGOs to do: to keep up with us, to ensure that policy is dictated not only by the Malians, but is also firmly rooted in ILO conventions, in environmental agreements, in OECD directives. I do not need to remind Mr Weverling how scandalously low compliance, compliance and compliance with all these conventions is, how scandalously few Dutch companies comply with these OECD directives. That's what the contradiction is for. And yes, we live in a civilized country, which organises this contradiction and indeed facilitates it. But there's really no question of buying in. That's what the truth really does to violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u57	I see that Mrs Van den Hul is doing quite a bit. We also consider this contradiction to be very important, but let us compare it. We have two, three major parties, ONL, SMEs-Netherlands and VNO-NCW, who are at the heart of the common interest of enterprising Netherlands, for the entrepreneurs who, for their part, stick out their necks, who employ people, who have to pay salaries every month. That's three organizations. When you see how many NGOs have received that grant money, I think you can take it down a notch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u58	I am simply surprised to listen to Mr Weverling. He's talking about subsidised contradiction and so on. I think it's pretty good that we're hearing and hearing again in the Netherlands, but if you're at the helm for ten years and you're the biggest party, why are you letting this happen? Why doesn't the VVD just settle in a coalition agreement that could have been done three or four times already, I think it is not going to happen? I find it remarkable that you are standing here... I must speak through you, Mr. President. I find it remarkable that Mr Weverling is standing here saying that he shouldn't, when I think: can you as a VVD just organize and arrange that in front?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u59	That's a good suggestion, so thank you. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u60	I look forward to the next coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u61	A question to Mr Weverling. I'd like it to be very sharp. He mentioned a number of NGOs by name and name, but also spoke in general about the NGOs representing civil society and organising the contradiction. Did he just say here five minutes ago that he wants to abolish the subsidy for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u62	No, I didn't say that. I don't think we should cut the ties with that either. I think I made that very clear. Look, these organizations should be able to exist, preferably from as little public money as possible. So I would say: just make sure that people in the country can join and then make a contribution to such an organisation. That also increases the level of support. What matters is that there are also subsidies that we provide, which are used to act against cabinet policy. That is not something we should use community money for. We need this Community money to serve the community, not to contradict government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u63	It seems that Mr Weverling has given it a lot of thought. Apparently, there is a group of NGOs that give a type of contradiction that Mr Weverling, the VVD says you shouldn't want to finance with public money. Would he be able to give an approximate estimate of how many clubs would have to be cut down? 'Cause he also says he doesn't want to get everything out. Does it go to 10%, or does it depend on the reports being written? What mechanism does Mr Weverling see in front of him?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u64	The point is that specific projects should be looked at differently when granting grants. So it's not about that subsidy disappearing completely. The point is that with subsidy money, some projects from the Dutch get, things happen that make the world better and do not contradict government policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u65	Another interruption, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u66	If you don't mind. I thought you said "in twos." Then I am very curious if Mr Weverling can deepen the type of projects, because he just said that we should stop subsidising the type of projects that go against government policy. Could he possibly qualify that a little more? I am a little confused about which projects he no longer wants to subsidise and how that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u67	Well, I think I have quite clearly referred to environmental defence, which is against the trade agreements. I don't think that's wrong at all. We need trade agreements with each other in order to be able to trade. What I think I'm trying to make clear is that we have shrinking budgets and that we need to focus. That is at the heart of the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u68	Then I feel a little bit like the thought police, and I am not used to that from Mr Weverling. Here in the Netherlands and in Europe, we support a wide range of organisations, of all kinds of political colour. We support journalistic projects, journalists, the Farmers Defence Force, farmers. Everyone gets a subsidy somewhere, in the Netherlands or in Europe. Do you really want to go in the direction that we're going to check from the VVD? Would you like to point that in your direction? Or are you saying that I think it is healthy that we live in a country where there are indeed subsidies for organisations that might be a little counter to government policy; I think that is very healthy, such as the free media, which we also leave alone to control us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u69	Sure. Of course, I fully endorse that last point. What matters is that we live in a free country. That demonstration is a big good. We may not always be happy about that, but it is very good that we have that right, that we are open to it, that we are listening to it and that we are taking on the good points of adapting our policies. But as far as I am concerned, we should not, with shrinking budgets, give subsidies to projects that contradict government policy, because you can only spend the money once.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u70	This will be a very remarkable position of the VVD. Let's take a closer look. How are we supposed to do that? Should we say to these organisations: you must state in your statutes that you will not oppose, only then will you receive money? Or should we have investigations carried out by independent organisations approved in advance by the Minister so that the Minister can check "this is very critical, so this should not come out" and then cut the subsidies? How would that work in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u71	How it would work in practice? There are now tenders every so many times that NGOs can subscribe to. They are eagerly looking forward to this, because it allows the management of the NGOs to stay in order. As far as I am concerned, the NGOs are not an end in themselves, but a means of achieving an end. If they have a clear objective, you can see very clearly in the grant regulation what we are giving money and what we do not want to spend money on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u72	So the VVD wants to define in the grant decision: you will do research, but these investigations should not lead to research results that could go against government policy. I think that's a way of working that we shouldn't want to work with each other in this country. It would be a good thing for Mr Weverling to admit that now that he sees all the opposition here, and when he says: on second thought, that is actually unworkable.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u73	Why does the taxpayer have to pay for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u74	Because you don't know what's coming out of such an investigation in advance. You have research conducted into policy fields where you also find other sounds important. Sometimes things come out where the cabinet has something to do with it and sometimes things can come out where the cabinet says: that goes against our policy. You don't want to commit in advance that it has to be and will be policy support, do you? Then you might as well not do it. That is why I call on the VVD to recognise that this is a false view and to say: I take this back; we do not want to become a country in which we impose on research bodies in advance what the result of their investigation must be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u75	Finally, Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u76	The latter is certainly not the case. Anyone should be able to investigate what they want to investigate. But let him find the finance for that himself, unless the government policy is supported by it. Let's not make it bigger now than it is. I have talked about Both ENDS, which receives a grant of EUR 9 million, but is going to fight against the investment amounts of this cabinet. That's the example I mentioned. That doesn't excite us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u77	This is, of course, corn on my mill. A splendid speech by Mr Weverling. That reminds me a little of my motion last year, in which I spoke specifically about this: subsidising Dutch taxpayers' money from various institutions, which then opposes cabinet policy. Of course you don't want to. I checked, but the VVD didn't support that motion at the time. It was only supported by the PVV and Forum for Democracy. What changed your mind? If I repeat this motion, will the VVD support it this year?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u78	Then we don't have a majority, Mr. Van Haga. So I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u79	That's definitely a good forgery. It's not about whether there's a majority. It is a question of whether, as spokesperson for the VVD, you are going to support this motion, which is exactly in line with what you have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u80	Perhaps I have a motion prepared myself and Mr Van Haga would like to go along with it. Maybe it's good to say again what I'm talking about. Counterfeiting is very good. NGOs have an important role to play. What matters is that we have to deal with taxpayers' money very carefully in the end. With this cabinet, we want to achieve all kinds of things, such as trade agreements. We then find it undesirable to finance matters such as action against trade agreements, because that tax money can be better spent on other matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u81	I'm also gonna help you peel this off, see how far we can get. When we look at this, we are getting very close to an Orbanian society and a situation like we have in Hungary. Take the media, for example. At Op1 you get critical noises every night against the corona policy. Does Mr Weverling think that we should also reduce that kind of noise? We're spending $600 million on media subsidies. Does Mr Weverling think that we should also restrict it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u82	I think it would be wise not to make a caricature of it. I am concerned that we are talking about taxpayers' money that is on the external trade and development cooperation budget. That's what we're talking about today. My speech today is: we must have trade before we can spend the money on aid. NGOs have an important role to play, but let's make sure we spend the money well and focused. I am not even going into Mr Voordewind's example. Free press and contradiction are fantastic and we must cherish them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u83	Yeah, and that's what we need to keep funding, I understand. Well, that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u84	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u85	The second is, of course, what do we do about the organisations that receive subsidies from us for certain purposes in other countries, but with their private money they are critical about CETA or Mercosur, for example? Are you going to link a grant like that to that? Do you say: yes, you may give it for that purpose, but then you must keep your mouth shut and not be critical of this government? Will you go that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u86	Certainly not, certainly not. Then I guess I didn't explain it enough. That is certainly not the intention. The point is that some projects in such a grant tender are already opposed to government policy in advance, such as trade agreements, and that we should not subsidise this with each other. It is already difficult to get 76 seats and therefore a majority for a trade agreement that we have in the coalition agreement. You know all about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u87	Mr. Weverling, will you conclude your speech now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u88	Sure. I'll close with a call. We need both help and trade more than ever. These are still two completely separate worlds in policy. I have shown today that help and trade can and must go hand in hand. We have a lot in the Netherlands, but we have to have the courage to offer it. This calls for a new impetus for the Netherlands as a trading country, which requires fairer trade rules, greater autonomy and a development cooperation policy based on common sense. But that also requires that we dare say: the best in the world is made in Holland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. We are now going to listen to the maiden speech in this room by Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen van GroenLinks. As you know, that is a speech without interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u90	Mr. Chairman. Here I am, in the House of Representatives. A special place and the heart of our democracy. I have to say, as a Brabant boy from a Catholic church village, it's impressive to be standing here. I stand here fighting for a world in which everyone can be themselves, without limiting the other to be themselves. For a world where everyone gets the chance to pursue their own dreams. For a world where it's safe to dream about love and the future. For a world where we take care of each other when things go a little bit less with the other. In which we look at each other and where we do justice to the defenseless and the orphans and in which we stand up for the oppressed and the weak. Today we are discussing the Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation Budget 2021. It is a budget with a cut of about EUR 110 million. In addition, this minister is placing a mortgage on the future by raising money. To put it bluntly, it's half a billion dollars. And this while the weakest will only get heavier. Now we're dealing with corona, and the economic crisis is already signing off. And we are not even talking about the effects of climate change. We have a strong public sector, with deep pockets, and a well-functioning civil society. This gives us a solid basis for dealing with these crises. Still, it is not easy to get through it together, let alone if you grow up in the slums of Nairobi, or in Kakuma, one of the many large UNHCR refugee camps in Africa. Or in Uganda, where you're not even safe when you're a girl, woman, or Ihbti person. No, if I've learned anything in my upbringing, it's that you look back at each other, that you don't let each other down when the need is greatest, but that you try to give the others support in the back. That means, in this case, in this budget, not cutting back on the poorest, the defenseless, the oppressed and the weak. Unfortunately, this minister, and this cabinet with her, is choosing these cuts. It is precisely now, at this time, when there are sandbags full of money ready to support large companies and the flying sector, that this department is being cut back, making it even more difficult for the most vulnerable: I cannot understand that. By the way, we are still in the dark about where the blows are going to fall. Because this minister chooses to push through the cuts until after the elections. A rather unsympathetic legacy to pass on to your successor, I'd say. Mr. Chairman. I understand that it is a tradition to look back at the past period in the last budget of a cabinet. Today, Mrs Kaag is Minister for three years and two days. As a group, we have followed the words and actions of this minister in recent years. We haven't seen much concrete. I wonder what this minister himself is most proud of. What three things has Minister Kaag managed politically in recent years? What does she see as her legacy? I'd like to hear it from this minister. Mr. Chairman. Solidarity is not free. Words can be grand, compelling and inspiring, but if you don't do what you say, at the end of the day there will be nothing but silence and hunger and violence and hopelessness. It costs money to invest in a world where we let everyone out and don't let anyone down. GroenLinks understands that like no other. We are therefore prepared to invest so that we can contribute to a world in which people have a future. Mr. Chairman. Together with colleagues Van den Hul of the PvdA and Alkaya of the SP, I have therefore tabled an amendment to this budget, in conjunction with our joint counter-budget, to add 500 million to the budget for external trade and development cooperation, to reverse this terrible mortgage on the future and the planned cuts. It may be unusual to shift such large amounts per amendment, but it is vital for people in developing countries that we do. Look at the positions of women, girls and minorities. They're under pressure. Girls are not allowed to go to school anymore, causing them to lose education, nutrition and safety. Lhbti people are increasingly marginalized, and sexual and reproductive rights are being pushed aside in many countries. Unfortunately, this Minister is planning to cut millions more on that. A kick after all those women, girls and lhbti-people who fight for ownership of their own body and sexuality. That is what we are trying to fix in this budget. But I wonder why the Minister made this choice. Hundreds of millions of people have to survive from less than €2 a day. Providing a social safety net via cash transfers is an effective way to help these people. Since we first brought this to this house a year ago, the Minister has become increasingly enthusiastic about it. That's great, but can the Minister explain how she's using cash transfers? Could she perhaps also give her opinion on the amended motion for a resolution tabled by myself and Mr Van den Hul? Mr. Chairman. The free press is also hit hard. Over the past few months, I have drawn attention to this more often. We stand on our backs when the NOS can no longer be identified on the street. We remember the murder of journalist Khashoggi and the indignation about this. We see that Iran and Russia are again interfering with the elections in the United States, and we are quite rightly outraged by this. Mr. Chairman. But when it comes to newspapers and media houses falling down in Bangladesh and Uganda, it stays quiet. A free press is crucial to promoting democracy and good governance, and provides reliable information, especially in these uncertain times. Does the Minister also see the importance and role of the free press? I get the impression not, because two weeks ago we received the letter from the minister in which she writes that she no longer wants to support the press. Why not? I'll ask the Minister. Why is she dropping the free press so hard in this time of year? What else can she do to correct this misstep? I hope that is more than the patch that was taped, which Minister Blok informed us about yesterday. Mr. Chairman. To achieve the Sustainable Development Goals it is very important that everything we do here strengthens each other. Take climate change. Through climate finance, the Netherlands helps poor countries deal with the consequences, but at the same time, through export credit insurance, we contribute just as much to investments in the fossil industry worldwide. Guarantees of 1.5 billion a year. That's not consistent, is it? What has this minister done to reduce these fossil subsidies? For example, in Sweden, fossil export credit insurance is prohibited from 2022. Does this cabinet want to follow this Swedish example? Or take the soybean industry. We see that the Amazon is being cut down and burned down for the soy industry, rainforest hood that Dutch companies are directly involved in, for soy brought to the Netherlands to feed our pigs, supported by our embassies on the spot. At the same time, we are concerned about maintaining the rainforest and sustainable wood production. Or take the fishing. We support African fishermen with better boats and nets, so that they can provide for their own existence. On the other hand, however, we accept that large Dutch and other European companies obtain the fees in the same African waters. Then you're not coherent, are you? Does the Minister not think it is time to stop blindly relying on the goodness of companies and finally face the truth? Isn't it time to stop being naive? Where has this minister been critical of all those companies which, in her view, "just want to be responsible" in NRC? Mr. Chairman. I see a world in which Shell has been miserable with the oil mess in Nigeria over the past few years and where Van Oord's corruption in Angola came to this minister's office. Or Parlevliet & Van der Plas, which with bribery obtained the fees in Namibia. There is almost no major corruption scandal to be found where a Dutch e.g. does not show up somewhere. As far as tax avoidance is concerned, the Netherlands is doing too little, which means that developing countries also miss billions of tax revenues. I sincerely wonder: how critical is this minister of these companies and how critical has she been over the past period? I'd like to hear it from her. What has this minister done? What about the implementation of our adopted motion to seek advice from the WRR on achieving sustainable development goals with a specific focus on policy coherence? As far as I am concerned, it is now time for binding legislation on corporate social responsibility at international level, but I have the impression that the Chamber should take the initiative. Mr. Chairman. The world improves by the example we are and the actions we do, not by our own words and opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u91	Thank you, Mr. Van den Nieuwenhuijzen. I congratulate you on this clear maiden speech in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u92	I would also like to express my congratulations, I assume, and even though the ruffling on the benches shows that Members are here on behalf of the House. The flowers you will receive to highlight these congratulations can be found at your table right here in the room.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u94	Thank you very much. Then we can now listen to Mrs Kuik's input on behalf of the CDA. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mr. Chairman. This year's focus is on health. We're gonna use masks, we're gonna wash our hands more than ever, and we're gonna stay five feet away. But this isn't the first time, and it won't be the last time we're facing an infectious disease, a pandemic. Humanity has been involved for thousands of years and the deadliest of all is tuberculosis. In 2018, 10 million people became ill and 1.5 million died from it. The infectious disease COVID-19 now has worldwide attention. Sorry, I have a lot of noise in the background. That's pretty disturbing. I hear they're quiet now. Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u96	Okay, continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u97	I'm moving on. The infection disease COVID-19 is now taking place worldwide. COVID-19 isn't on its own. It creates a snowball effect, with damage to health care and the socio-economic position of people. In Africa, these effects are severe. We are talking about a drop of potentially 200 million people below the poverty line. We are now facing a huge crisis, both budgetaryly and globally. The question is how to maintain existing projects and policies. It cannot be the case that we are now cutting the cooperation budget down by linking it to GNI for people in the countries who can just stand on their own feet and for those who cannot yet do so. Despite this crisis, we can and will continue to stand for the projects we have deployed, and with the coalition we have put in additional aid. I am proud of the policy pursued in recent years with this coalition and with this concerned minister. We've managed to color the world a little more beautifully. Take the agenda to be aware of the position and rights of women on each issue, the extra commitment to combating child marriages and child prostitution and, in the field of health care, the fight against tuberculosis. There are 2.9 million people with better access to water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u98	My interruption is directed at what Mrs Kuik has just discussed. We can't lower people in these times where it's hard. Now that does not happen in this budget for the coming year, 2020, but if you read the pages 25 and 26, you will see a number of times that we keep it up by 2020 through a cash slide. That just means we're bringing out money from the years to come. And then it says as a solution: to divide. I'm very curious. I assume that Mrs Kuik will return in the coming period, given her place on the list of the CDA. If the CDA is back at the negotiating table, how is that going to be distributed? I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u99	For the CDA, it is important that the OS budget is maintained. That is why we have worked on this and I welcome the compromise that has emerged from it. It is important, however, that we continue the projects we have now put in place and that the child is not thrown away with the bath water. However, it is important that we also look at how to build it back better. 'Building back better' is also the motto of this budget. That is also something I would like to ask the Minister. Can she give examples of how we can do that? There's such an ugly saying, "never waste a good crisis." We also need to see where the opportunities are now to build it back better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u100	This vision sounds nice, but very concrete the numbers fall for 2021 and beyond. Pretty words don't get you there. You either add money to it or you don't add it to it. Can I assume that if this party returns to a new coalition before 2021 and the years after that, or does that gap, the cash-slide, remain that "to be divided" and is it really just empty words?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u101	Mr Stoffer is ahead of the next position of the CDA. That sounds good. I hope that we will do well and get a lot of seats, because that will also mean that we can commit ourselves to maintaining the OS budget. We will have to see how the situation is then, and with whom we should conduct these negotiations, if we are allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u102	Another interruption? Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u103	I'd like to make sure, Mr. Chairman. So if the CDA is at the negotiating table and is in a new coalition, then that budget will remain at its level for the years 2021 and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u104	I will be committed to this issue, to development cooperation, to maintaining the budget, because it is important that we not only look at ourselves. We are also affected by what is happening in other countries. That is what we see, among other things, when it comes to health, in the covid crisis. If health systems are weak in other countries, we can also suffer from them. So it's mercy, because you have to look back at someone else, but it's also in our own interest to make sure that those systems are improved. Those are important things I'll bet on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mr. Stoffer? No? Please continue, Mrs. Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u106	I was talking about 2.9 million people with better access to water. I am talking about 6.6 million farmers being reached, so that their profits can be increased and about the Challenge Fund for Youth Employment to give young people perspective and prevent migration. And finally, not to mention strengthening the so important civil society through Power of Voices Partnerships. I just said it in an interruption: how can we make it more future-proof? Can the Minister give some examples of this? Strengthening global healthcare is for the CDA the coat rack where we can hang other Dutch goals, such as hygiene, access to clean water, improving health infrastructure, reliable coverage and the position of girls. To provide an economic perspective, we will need a more equal partnership and further expand the opportunities offered by trade. My colleague Amhaouch will deal with this later. On this point, I hope the Minister will take up the principle of more for more, less for less on return. How are the countries that cooperate more rewarded to also offer prospects for young people? I don't see much of that. Then there's that health system that's crucial. COVID-19 has a major impact on vulnerable health systems. As an example, I would like to mention the effects on the TB targets. It is estimated that this crisis will lead to 6.3 million additional sick people and 1.4 million additional deaths between now and 2025. As the corona virus hits the whole world, we see how dependent we are on each other to defeat this virus. If we're gonna have a vaccine, we're gonna have to spread it around the world. In addition to that moral consideration of who first, a good medical infrastructure is essential. This is not only to help the poorest among us, but also simply self-interest. More than ever, it is clear that strengthening health systems is important for a sustainable strategy. This is the challenge of the coming years, in our own country, but also what part we contribute internationally. The CDA wants us to have a strategy on what our Dutch role should be in the global health strategy. The UN and WHO are developing strategies, and we have Team EU. I understand that, as the Netherlands, we cannot achieve this alone. Global health problems call for a global approach. That is precisely why I want a Dutch strategy and not to wait for what the UN or WHO are going to ask of us. How does the Netherlands relate to these international initiatives? Where are we with added value, or even better: where do we want added value? I'm a TB ambassador for a reason. The Netherlands as a small country is very big in global fight against tb. We're experts in water management. Clean water is important for prevention. We can ensure that a well is not only used for five years, but continues for twenty years, with our knowledge through the Blue Deal. Can the Minister give an update on this? We develop rapid tests here, participate in various research and offer innovative solutions for health issues. I want us not only to participate in international strategies, but to have our own agenda. That is why I call on the Minister to develop a global health strategy for the Netherlands. Finally, I would like to say a few words about this. Research and development is also important here. In recent years, research, the PDPs, have achieved groundbreaking success in the field of diagnostics and vaccine development for deadly infectious diseases. We are contributing to structural improvements in infrastructure and research capacity in health care in lower and middle income countries, which is now desperately needed. This goes on for another year. What commitment will the Minister make to ensure that successful projects can be prosecuted or monitored? In the budget, the Minister states to make the Digital Agenda a priority. This is self-evident to us here, but I agree with the Minister that these opportunities should also be exploited in OS policy. It starts with the digital infrastructure, which can be used to contribute to, for example, health structure and training. One country is further in the digital transition than the other. How is the Minister going to shape this agenda? Then girls. In this crisis we see that the position of girls can deteriorate very quickly. It is precisely in such a crisis that we need to be alert, when there are girls in many places in need and there are not always official aid workers present or cannot always be properly monitored. Can we set this up at EU and UN level? I also think back to the abuses in the OS sector in other crises. Does the Minister agree with me that prostitution has an uneven starting point and that it is unacceptable for aid workers in an authority relationship to people in need to take advantage of this in any way? I ask the Minister to investigate how we can tackle aid workers who abuse the position of these girls more effectively. The crisis is triggering modern trafficking in human beings. There are poignant stories in abundance, but the story of 27-year-old Sarah became visible because this was reported in the Volkskrant. She said she was willing to listen when one day in 2015 a man, a human dealer, walked towards her, who said: you're young, you're beautiful, don't you want to go abroad, where life is much better? Sarah is one of the estimated 25,000 Nigerian women who have been smuggled to Europe since 2014. I would like to know from the Minister what progress has been made on the motion tabled by me and my colleague, Mr Voordewind of the Christian Union, on stepping up the fight against trafficking in human beings. In that motion we asked the Minister to map the trafficking in human beings and to step up the fight against trafficking in human beings in cooperation with source and transition countries. I shall pass on the floor to my colleague, Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Kuik. We are going to speak to Mr Amhaouch shortly before the second part of the CDA's input into this debate, but we are going to listen to an interruption by Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u108	Nice story from Mrs. Kuik. She sketches all kinds of connections and connections that we see, but I do wonder the following. I would like to say that it is a good thing that she is committed to maintaining the development aid budget. But here's what I'm wondering. On the one hand, we are talking about, relatively speaking, the thimble filled with money for development aid. On the other hand, we are talking about the bucket of trade deals and the root causes of inequality in the world. I am referring, for example, to the livestock industry and the export of its products. Does Mrs Kuik actually see that connection?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u109	In my view, this is a whole budget story about aid and trade. Aid and trade can be mutually reinforcing. For that, the knowledge we have in the field of agri-food, for example, is very important. These are things that we use, our expertise and our knowledge, to help people around the world, for example in Africa, by ensuring that farmers can produce more, that fewer people have a food shortage, that farmers generate more income, that we work on a value chain that makes more money in the countries themselves rather than everything in Europe. These are issues that are being addressed in this budget. These value chains, Mr Amhaouch, will be talking about economics and trade; that piece will soon be important things we are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u110	I have to say, then, that there is or seems to be some sort of blind spot in there. For example, look at the COVID-19 pandemic. Science tells us that the chance that that is because of how we deal with the natural environment is really very great. How we deal with this natural environment is partly driven by how we trade and set up our livestock exports. Let me rephrase. Does Mrs Kuik also see room in the global health strategy, which she was talking about, for the contribution of science to the root causes of, for example, the pandemic or the great and increasing inequality in the world, precisely when it comes to the consequences of our trade policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u111	We must, of course, look at the root causes of migration and diseases. We must ensure that farmers in Africa are able to produce well in a sustainable way. Those are certainly points we are looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u112	I now give the floor to Mr Amhaouch of the CDA for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The trading book has now been placed with the Minister for Development Cooperation for almost ten years. Trade and OS complement each other, but is the concept of trade still covering our objectives? Or should we think more about economic cooperation, i.e. OS and economic relations? That gives more body to the trading book. For me, that's more than a semantic discussion. Where does OS stop and where does trade start? And what does that balance look like for the future, I ask the Minister? Can she reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. It is downright very annoying for Philips that a reliable ally and trading partner like the US cancels two thirds of the ventilation equipment ordered. Can the Minister once again consider how we can use this equipment somewhere and how the Dutch government can support Philips in doing so? In addition to the damage caused by this by a Dutch company, this case also illustrates the changing global trade. Panels are sliding. Europe must have a strong autonomous position vis-à-vis China and the US. On the other hand, trade is something we want to see as a CDA from an equal approach: dialogue and shared ownership. The CDA is thinking about our future relationship with our neighbour Africa and its countries. We are increasingly seeing that countries want to get rid of the OS infusion and we are increasingly moving towards an economic relationship based on equality rather than dependence. I am thinking, for example, of a country such as Rwanda, which is increasingly looking for economic opportunities. That makes sense, otherwise time would stop. Of course, we still have a long way to go, but the world is changing rapidly. The current crisis is a delay, but not a permanent setback; I am convinced of that. With the transition from low to middle income countries, our relationship with them also changes. This makes other projects visible, which raises the question of what purpose we want to allocate resources and what interests we have in investing resources in countries. For example, we will have to go from a public to a more private or a more public-private form of support and funding. Mr. Chairman. Will we continue to distribute funds in the same way in the future and spend our resources on the right countries? How do we get more from OS through trade to economic cooperation? This should become a much more important part of the OS agenda. I see great opportunities for Europe in the African internal market. What about the African Free Trade Agreement, the so-called African Continental Free Trade Area, I ask the Minister. It is precisely access to this huge market and its contribution to the creation of this market that offers great opportunities when we get there in time. Dutch companies can create added value on the ground and create decent jobs at the same time, I said as ambassador for SDG 8. I am convinced that this path will provide a great opportunity for the boys and girls on this continent to believe in an African dream rather than a dream to go to Europe. From Africataskforce to an integrated Africa strategy. In this changing world, Africa is becoming more and more self-conscious. The continent goes from conflict management to economic diplomacy. In addition to the Asian tigers, the booming economies in Asia, we now also have the African lions that are emerging. The European Commission has also experienced this in its approach to the African Union. African countries realise that they have an ever better negotiating position due to the need for raw materials and an increasing call from the EU for Africa's participation on the world stage. Economic opportunities are so often still in the shadow of geopolitical threats. That is why I ask the Minister to develop an Africa strategy, which outlines a policy perspective and how we deal with these opportunities and challenges in Africa. We need to get started on that right away. We are already late and we must avoid developing a strategy that is already obsolete when it comes to publishing, as with China. I would also like to ask the Minister about the progress of the African Task Force. Is there any practical results? How are the contacts and cooperation with VNO-NCW, SMB-Netherlands and NABC, which have already developed their own Africa strategy? In her letter last summer and now in this budget, the Minister was unable to convince me of the progress of the task force. Not yet, but we still have two days to go. I would like to lend a hand by asking the Minister to formulate a clear mandate through the designation of some pilots. On this basis, the task force can conclude what barriers we are facing and how we can promote trade. In this way, the task force can come up with a toolbox that the ministry can then translate into policy. Mr. Chairman. Now I come to the internationalisation of business, especially SMEs. I would like to ask the Minister about the development and promotion of international trade in the region. What is the Minister doing to encourage SMEs and regions to act internationally? How does she show where the opportunities lie and how does she provide support where necessary? Last year I tabled a motion to support the regional development companies, the ROMs, on this regional internationalisation agenda. How is this motion working out? Finally, Invest International. We've had 800 million euros on the shelf for a long time. Right now, we need to invest ourselves out of the crisis. I would ask the Minister to do everything in his power to ensure that this is done in this period, and I ask for a commitment on this matter. I would like to draw particular attention to SMEs in line with the amendment I tabled last year on strengthening the internationalisation position of the regions. Mr President, the final point concerns reshoring. The VVD also named that. In the Corona debates, we talked a lot about how we deal with the recovery of production to the Netherlands. We don't have to get everything back. We must not hide behind the dikes, but we must be able to make strategic choices. I think it is an important task for this Minister and, of course, for the Ministry of Economic Affairs to come up with concrete policy on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u114	Thank you, Mr. Amhaouch. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "In the present circumstances, it is not wise to make cuts." We could read that in the Millions Note. However, there is an area in which the government is making cuts, namely in aid to developing countries. After all, the cash-slide that prevents austerity now provides a cutback for development aid in the coming years. I have previously referred to this as 'ugly and disappointing', but for two political reasons it is also particularly harsh that this minister, the leader of a party calling himself 'progressive', has chosen this ugly path. First of all, both the cabinet and the party of this minister, D66, are full of the so-called broad prosperity concept. In fact, the D66 election programme states that D66 wants to get rid of economic growth at the expense of future prosperity or prosperity outside the Netherlands. On the contrary, aid to developing countries is being cut in the future, i.e. aid to other countries in the future, precisely on a large scale. How does this relate to the broad sense of prosperity of the cabinet, I ask the Minister? Mr. Chairman. It is also particularly hard for this minister because, as far as I know, she is the only minister in whose territory cuts are being made. So you're party leader and you're in a coalition in an area that your party cares about, where you have a lot of experience and what you have a lot of knowledge about, and then you're the only one in the cabinet who has to cut back, right at a time when international solidarity is so important and when global poverty and inequality are growing. A painful knee trauma with great consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u116	I see my colleague Alkaya has read our election programme well.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u117	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u118	That graces him; that's nice. I know he does his homework all the time. I've also read your election program. However, there is nothing in there about OS. You speak loudly about the development cooperation budget of this minister of my party, but what is in your election programme? There's nothing in your election program. Perhaps you could explain to the Chamber why you didn't record it. Secondly, I would like to talk about the amounts and the cuts that you are always talking about, because we have talked about this many times in debates. In any case, with the support of Mr Joël Voordewind of the Christian Union, we have always worked hard to maintain the OS budget. In total, we have pushed it up by 2.3 billion in this cabinet period. 2.3 billion, Mr. Alkaya. Perhaps you could ask your colleague from the Labour Party about the situation in the previous cabinet. Then a lot of savings were made and the counter was set at 1.5 billion. While we are very difficult to increase the budget, you are not going to tell me "it's nothing; it doesn't grace the cabinet and D66"? I have two questions about your election programme and the contribution that we and this cabinet have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u119	It is in it, and it has always been in it, also in the previous one. In fact, Mr Bouali is pleased that he has read our electoral programme. So he has seen that we have opted for a concise programme. Its size is about one sixth of the size chosen by D66. So we have chosen the amount of attention we have paid to things, but development aid, aid and international solidarity are indeed included. It's just that maybe the number "0.7%" or something like that isn't in it. That is perhaps what Mr Bouali means. It is good to understand that if we want to have this discussion properly. Everyone will be able to see in the CPB overbook that we will be making money available for this and that this is indeed in the text of the electoral programme. So let there be no misunderstanding about that. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's That is what we think, and that is just what comes into the programmes. That's just what we're gonna prove. Then it's about what the Cabinet does. Mr Bouali can strike back and Mr Bouali can say'see what we have done' and 'the left-wing opposition does not pay attention to that', but why does he run away from the fact that development aid is being cut back in the future? That is something that is being cut back. That is simply reflected in the answers of the cabinet to our questions. From 2023 onwards, the effect of the cash slide will go down, but we may already see a cut in development cooperation as of next year. You can just admit that, can't you? We do not need to remain in rhetoric; let us really talk about the content.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u120	I like that, too. I always appreciate talking to Mr Alkaya about the content. Let us be honest, then, that in your election programme, you say, the network itself is paying a little less attention to that. But you are sitting here with a lot of roaring lyrics, at least my party. Indeed, we have a very good, good OS paragraph and a very good, good commercial paragraph in it. It clearly states what we do want and what we do not want and what we can and what we cannot do. If you want to speak with raging language the next time you stand here, make sure that you clearly state what you do want in your own election programme. It's not just the 0.7%. I have never made a secret about extra money for development cooperation: as far as I am concerned, we are going straight to that 0.7%. Only, we've clearly agreed in the coalition we're in now what we're doing. I can at least tell you that if we hadn't done anything, say, if we had continued Rutte/Asscher, we would be at 0.49%. We are now at over 0.59%. The Netherlands is now the fifth largest donor in the European Union. That just means we invested. Why don't you just admit it? I would like to say to you: yes, as far as I am concerned, it may be more. In fact, I would very much like to, but as a left-wing party, as an opposition party, to acknowledge that we simply pushed 2.3 billion into this budget. That's a lot of money, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u121	Finally, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u122	I am glad that Mr Bouali is considering the form of our electoral programme, but I have just said that we have simply chosen a different form. We probably need fewer words to explain what we think. But for a D66 person, that's not enough. That's why you have a 200-page D66 program that probably nobody reads. Anyway, it's a good thing you guys chose that. It's your thing. That's not up to me. Mr. Chairman. Then about what the cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u123	Mr. Voordewind also wants to interrupt. I'm giving him the opportunity to do that. Oh, sorry, Mr. Alkaya, you hadn't finished your answer! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u124	Yes, Mr. Chairman, about what the Cabinet did do. Look, this cabinet compares itself with the previous cabinet................................................................................................................................................................................................... That may be true, but I didn't have anything to do with it, did I? The D66 spokesperson doesn't have to call me on that, does he? You may be able to intervene in the Labour Party later, and then you may have a point. I'm just saying that if you compare this with the economic growth we've seen in recent years, it would have been more necessary to meet the standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u125	I am entirely in favour of honesty and facts, but then Mr Alkaya must tell the full truth about what is happening to the budget now. In fact, a decrease in GDP has been introduced. In addition, an additional 500 million savings could be made in the coming years. He's compensated this cabinet. So I didn't hear you mention the 500 million. Do you recognize that 500 million has been added? Do you acknowledge that at least this year and next year we have been compensated by this cabinet, so that we do not have any negative consequences for the decline in GDP?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u126	Yeah, occasionally. But besides that, a cash slide is also done to round up the whole. To prevent the budget from going down completely, a cash slide has been applied. Such a cash drawer simply means a cut in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u127	That too, of course, we must wait and see. It may well be that the economy is attracting again. It doesn't look like it yet, but we're talking about a cash drawer in 2023, so that's three years from now. If the economy attracts well, then it may also be that we may not need that cash slide at all in 2023, 2024 and 2025. Does Mr. Alkaya recognize that, too? Then the 0.7%. Indeed, I have just looked at it and I have not been able to find it in the electoral programme. It would be nice if Mr Alkaya, who refers to this minister and to us as a coalition, would simply put facts into his own electoral programme, namely 0.7%. It would also be nice if he would let you pass on the fact that you need about 2 billion for that. I really hope that's what you're calling it. As far as we're concerned, we're growing back to that 0.7%. Maybe I'll come in the second term with such a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u128	It doesn't have that percentage in it. That has been a conscious choice. I've admitted that, too. This depends entirely on how the economy develops. I'm on the programme committee and I'm the Treasury spokesman. So we will also look into what is needed in the discussions with the Central Planning Office. But I can say in addition to all the other debates we have had here, that I think that is important. I will do my utmost to grow back. That will not surprise anyone either, given the debates we have had here. I note that there has been economic growth in recent years, as opposed to the current outlook. Unfortunately, that's what we ended up in. In recent years, there has been much stronger economic growth than we all initially took into account when we wrote the previous election programmes. This cabinet, this minister, failed to keep pace then, to invest extra in order to reach 0.7% in such an economic growth situation. At the same time, last year, as much as 10 billion was repaid on public debt. These have been political choices on which your fellow party members are proud in other debates. They say: we have indeed repaid on public debt, and that was a political choice. I say here: yes, but you chose not to put enough money into development cooperation when things went well. And now they're choosing to compensate for that with a cash slide from the future, now that it's going badly economically, in the hope that the economy will recover. Well, that's a huge risk. That is a risk that I will not take in any case in my election programme. I will at least ensure that more money is added than what this cabinet intends to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u129	Proceed with your speech, Mr. Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u130	That is why, through you, Mr President, I would like to ask the coalition, in all honesty, that is in line with these interrupting debates, whether they are prepared to abandon this cash slide, this ugly cutback on the future of development aid and to find an alternative together. We will all be faced with this cut in the future of development aid in our electoral programmes, but perhaps we can come together in this debate. Then it doesn't have to end up in the election programmes at all because we just wipe it off the table. I hope that's possible. Mr. Chairman. It doesn't only apply to the Netherlands that you first have to be healthy in order to be able to develop and flourish. The same applies to developing countries. That is precisely why, as a Socialist Party, we have called not only for care here but also for care in developing countries. I was also glad to hear that the CDA had a lot of attention to that. I am talking about countries where infrastructure is often less well organized. The country can therefore use some help, knowledge and skills to build that infrastructure. We have often stressed the importance of not cutting back on the fight against AIDS, HIV, tuberculosis, drug addiction or their harm reduction, as Corona has now added to it as an additional deadly disease. For as long as raw capitalism still prevails in the world and inequality is so great, international solidarity is simply a duty. But I am not from the school that says that simply transferring money is the best way to help those countries. I think that you should help those countries to invest in their basics, especially in their healthcare systems, so that they can be healthy, so that they can flourish. That is why, for example, in 2015 an amendment from the SP and the VVD was adopted together, which is a remarkable combination on this subject, to support projects to be able to drop drugs using drones in countries where that infrastructure is not in order. I understand that this prototype has been developed and that the test flights have been successful. I'm just curious to see what's going on with this project now that we've put development money into it to develop it. Is this now used, for example, in the fight against corona, or later in the spread of the vaccine? Whatever this corona crisis has shown us... (NL) Mr President, shall I continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u131	I would ask Members to keep the interruptions as concise as possible from now on, because I am looking at the clock and I see that in the time available to the remaining speakers, with the end of this debate about 13.30 hours, we have only a few minutes left for interruptions. So please be brief and also the answers as concise as possible, but clear of course. Mr. Weverling.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u132	Sure, no problem. I was just being interrupted. You're talking about Wings for Aid, the unmanned drones. If that's a success, would you like to go through with it? Is that what I'm actually hearing you say indirectly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u133	Sure. Firstly, it is a continuation of an amendment that we have tabled together. I understand that's a company. However, it is a company that strengthens infrastructure in those countries. So I assume that with that project they will permanently strengthen the infrastructure in those countries and that there is also an element of knowledge transfer. For example, they try to recruit the pilots on the ground who control drones as much as possible and train them locally, so that we can contribute to the infrastructure of the country and indeed become self-sufficient and self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u134	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u135	Mr. Chairman. Whatever this corona crisis has shown us are the obvious disadvantages of free trade on the production of essential products. For example, at the beginning of the outbreak, there was no mouth mask factory in the Netherlands. At that time they were mouth caps and other protective equipment, but tomorrow it could be something else. The government must have a strategy on that. The VVD and the CDA have also named that and that shows that times change. To be honest, I am hopeful that we will see this kind of restrictions on free trade and also ask the cabinet for a vision of this. If we leave all production of all products to the free market and set all trade tariffs at zero, multinationals will move production to countries where wages, labour standards and environmental standards are low. Their importance is to reduce costs and make more profit. Then you can't blame companies for doing so, because politics forces them to do so. After all, if they do not and their competitors do, they are simply cheaper out. Then you get unfair competition and then you have to choose: either I go with you, or I can close the case. Has the Minister's view of free trade also changed because of this corona crisis on this point? And how does it now assess the impact of free trade agreements on the production of essential products and on our country's strategic dependence? In the meantime, CETA is still in the First Chamber and it is not too late to withdraw this treaty. It is certainly not too late to stop the Mercosur agreement. After all, there is also an approved motion for a resolution. I wonder what the Minister is doing with this. What is it doing to stop this Mercosur agreement? We can never make up for the damage that our free trade treaties and tax treaties have to developing countries through development aid. A plethora of what we give to development aid is being smuggled out of those countries by capital flight and tax avoidance. But in an interview, this minister only tells companies who want to be responsible, who want to comply with the Climate Agreement and who want to pay fair wages. Mr. Chairman. It is naive to think that multinationals will, or can, ever act in the interests of society if this is at the expense of their profits or quarterly figures. In the NRC we could read that this naivety of the minister is indistinguishable from stupidity. Heavy words and an extremely painful article, with just a few examples of the abuses caused by Dutch multinationals in the world. It is our job as Dutch politicians to address and sanction our companies here in the Netherlands if they have to, because their headquarters are here. Because if we don't, no one in the world will.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u136	I think the SP is starting to make a bit of a caricature of our Dutch multinationals. If the multinationals are wrong, you may address them. But by now sketching the picture that our DSMs, our Philipsen, our ASMLs, or it doesn't matter which companies would only act in other countries or continents because they would see financial profits and never make a social contribution, I think you are really short of our multinationals in the Netherlands. In the imvo discussions we are having here in the Netherlands, we are talking all the time about sustainability, sustainability, human rights and the sustainability of the chains. I would like to ask the SP how the SP and the CDA can work together to create added value on a continent such as Africa with sustainable jobs with our top Dutch sectors, so that young people can develop their own dream there, so that they can not be squeezed out, and so that the Netherlands or Europe and Africa can get a win-win situation out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u137	I have tried to say that you cannot expect those companies to do socially useful things if that is at the expense of their profits. It sometimes seems as if this is what policy is based on. That is also what was described in that article as naive and stupid. Companies may be able to do useful things for society. Luckily, they do. Dutch companies are very useful in several countries. But they only do that when they can make a profit there. If we develop policies that make it more profitable not to act socially useful, companies will be forced to do so. Or we expect companies to drop profits. They can't keep doing that for long if their shareholders keep saying in the shareholders' meeting: no, because if you move the company or production facility to Bangladesh, where the standards are very low and so on, you can make more profit. You may be able to resist this for one or two years, but at some point those interests will prevail. That is something we must avoid. That's our job. I don't blame those companies. It is our job not to make that possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u138	I agree with Mr Alkaya that profit for shareholders should not be the main objective. It must be a goal or purpose for multinationals to make a social contribution. That must be one of their core values. Again the question again: what can we do together with the Dutch business community in order to create decent new jobs and new activities on a continent like Africa? How do you view that? What would you start with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u139	If you create the circumstances, I think companies have intrinsic motivation to see opportunities and jump into them. They do that all the time. We must not remove trade barriers across the board. For example, in countries where environmental standards or labour standards are not in order, trade barriers are in place. We must then maintain tariffs in order to ensure that it does not become lucrative to sit in such countries because of that kind of exploitation. I think this is the most important thing we can do. That has also been our constant commitment in all these debates, for example on free trade agreements. We are also in favour of fair trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u140	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u141	The sanctioning of companies that make mistakes abroad is still not enough. That's far too complicated. Take a company like Shell alone, which is a lot involved in these kinds of abuses. It is still far too complicated to hold individuals and directors responsible here in the Netherlands. This is why clearer laws are needed, both at national and international level, in addition to voluntary agreements between benevolent companies that can simply continue to exist. Here too, a cabinet period has been lost. Unfortunately, that is what it looks like, precisely because of the relations in the cabinet. Unfortunately, during this period of office, the Minister spent too long at the core of old politics, indistinguishable from her predecessors. It has been fooled by the multinationals, who say they want to do their best, and it has not changed the framework conditions too much. She has cut back on the future of development aid, which we have just talked about. Unfortunately, the thin progressive jacket that surrounds this old politics makes it hardly any better. Mr. Chairman. Climate warming, environmental pollution and inequality in the world continue unabated. To cope with that, new leadership is needed. No elitist leadership with vague vistas and hollow words, but leadership from the bottom, from the grassroots neighborhoods and from the workfloors, to offer counterpower to the omnipotence of multinationals and the uprooted and invisible capital, which no longer has any national borders at all and which has no regard at all for the situation on the ground, on the floors of the people's neighbourhoods, but only thinks of profit in the shortest possible time. Unfortunately, capital and multinationals have screwed this cabinet into the bush. That is why we need real democratisation, which will turn political and economic relations upside down and finally make the world fairer from below. Minister Kaag was in the perfect place to show that progressive leadership over the past four years, but in our opinion she has conducted too much old politics and wasted four years of progressive Netherlands. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u142	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. Mr Bouali of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on his maiden speech. It was a nice story; too bad we weren't allowed to interrupt. Mr. Chairman. 2020 was the year the World Health Organisation declared Africa polio-free. However, it did not become front page news, and of course we all know why it was. The front pages were dominated by corona, which turned the whole world upside down, not least Africa. For me, this is a good symbol of where we stand with development cooperation. Over the last few decades, we have made enormous progress in the fight against diseases, in the fight against poverty and in increasing employment and education opportunities in developing countries. Yet we tend to see the misery caused by conflict, climate change and now also corona. Today, I would first like to consider what we have achieved with all of us and with the lives that have improved, precisely to show why it is so important that we strengthen our commitment and continue to look for new ways to improve lives. Mr. Chairman. That's why I'd like to take a look back. When we started this cabinet period, it was bad with the OS budget. The Rutte/Asscher cabinet had implemented a structural cut of 1.4 billion. For the first time since 1974 the Netherlands no longer met the international standard to spend 0.7% of GNI on development cooperation. Later, Minister Ploumen added another 1.2 billion. And let's face it, there was no crisis then. My party has done everything in its power to reverse this tide and close the gaps in the Rutte/Asscher cabinet. I said it in my interruption to the SP colleague: in total, we managed to get EUR 2.3 billion for the budget of BuHa-OS during this period. And with results. With the 400 million annually released for sexual and reproductive health and rights, 2.8 million women and girls have now had access to contraception. I am also committed to this with GroenLinks' colleague, with the Dutch contribution of 100 million euros for the Global Partnership for Education. Before that, there was full support in this Chamber. That was almost three years ago. In the Netherlands, in 2019 alone, we managed to bring 1 million hectares of forest under sustainable management. That was before the financial commitment, which was doubled last year on the basis of this Chamber's amendments. These are tough results, results that improve lives worldwide and are in the interest of the future of the Netherlands. They are results that are now painfully threatened with destruction, because the poorest people have often been indirectly hit hardest by corona. Last Monday I spoke to the ONE-Youth ambassadors; many of you also spoke to them. They pressed me firmly once again that we should not forget the most vulnerable people anywhere in the world. I don't want to do that either, and I hope to be able to carry it out with all of you. Unfortunately, we do not have enough time to discuss all the conflicts in the world. The chairman just pointed us at the clock. Nevertheless, I do not want to leave it unnoticed that we are seeing the suffering and that we continue to work for all those countries in conflict, all those countries that are dealing with large flows of refugees. Yesterday, Yemen's horrible footage made the eight-hour news. I am thinking of the situation in the Middle East, the very difficult, difficult situation of Palestinians and the fate of Lebanon, which, to the extent of disaster this year, was also faced with a terrible explosion, as we all know. But it is also about the situation in Central Africa, the refugees in Colombia, the Rohingya in Bangladesh and the Uighurs in China. I told you, it's too much to mention, but for all those people, at least I'm still committed. I am therefore extremely pleased that, with the joint commitment of this Chamber and with Minister Kaag, we have been able to release 500 million extra from the BHOS budget from the general funds, in order to ensure that the support for those people is maintained, so that we can continue the programmes in 2021, for example in the area of SRGR. This is necessary, but it turned out again last week, when the United States signed an anti-abortion declaration in the company of Brazil and Hungary; it didn't surprise us. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in addition to the EUR 400 million she spends on SRGR for 2021, she will continue to be politically and diplomatically active and continue to fight these conservative forces with word and deed. Mr. Chairman. I mentioned that people in developing countries are hit particularly hard by the crisis. There are 80 million refugees in OS countries. We have 80 million refugees internationally, of which 85% to 90% live in OS countries themselves. These are extra vulnerable. Almost half of all refugee children do not go to school, whereas education is the main driver of global progress. I would also like to look with colleagues today and tomorrow to see if we can do something about this, at least to improve education for those refugee camps. I am going to reach out to my fellow Members in order to offer children who have been through so much hope for a better future. Mr. Chairman. I want to go to a topic that I haven't discussed before: the money that migrants send to their families and friends at home every year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u144	Before proceeding, perhaps it would be useful to first give Mrs van den Hul the opportunity for her interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u145	Yes, remittances is indeed also a very important subject. But on the subject we were just talking about, I must say something about it. I know Mr Bouali as an advocate of sexual and reproductive rights. That's what he was talking about. In this budget, the budget that Mr Bouali is now defending with such a great deal of fire, with words, is a minus on the budget for sexual and reproductive rights and the fight against HIV and AIDS. In view of what we have just heard, can I assume that Mr Bouali is going to vote in favour of the amendment I tabled, together with Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, in order to repair it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u146	I think that the PvdA colleague has a very valid point. But I also had another story in my story, and that has to do with your party. You left us with such deep wounds on the OS budget that we really had to add to that. We've been working really hard over the years to do that. It worked. Now we are in a crisis that is unprecedented, the corona crisis. We have all managed, with your support and with the support of other colleagues in the Chamber, to raise EUR 500 million to ensure that, in any case, the ongoing projects can still progress and that they are covered. In recent years, with several colleagues here, we have all devoted ourselves to SRGR, a subject that is of great concern to both of us. But we're in this crisis. We have made additional money available in recent years. Then it fits us now to say: we are spending 400 million on SRGR, one of the largest amounts; let us leave that alone. That's a good bet. We have asked for additional resources in recent years. I just can't do that this year. I think it's a nice proposal. I'd like to go with you. I'd like to think along with you. But we don't have any more money.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u147	I really must say that this is now beginning to become caricature. There is no mention of "gap wounds" that we would have left behind. There was indeed a crisis, first a financial crisis, then a refugee crisis. They're acting on it. At present, the Netherlands, one of the richest countries in the world, is failing. After months of political debate here, following an AIV opinion requested by Mr Bouali's party, as a matter of urgency, under steam and boiling water, a compromise was reached after months of discussion which I am sure Mr Bouali would have preferred to see different. He could be pretending it's all fantastic what's in there right now. It's not fantastic. Several organisations attract the call: educational organisations, women's rights organisations, SRGR organisations, HIV/AIDS anti-discrimination organisations. They are calling the shots, because this budget is being cut. That shouldn't happen. We are making a number of concrete proposals from the left-wing opposition. A: We repair the damage...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u148	Mrs. Van den Hul. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u149	... with the Van den Nieuwenhuijzen amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u150	Mrs Van den Hul! I can't take this as a brief interruption anymore. I did ask for that. I do not do that because I am happy to take the floor, but I do want everyone to be able to speak in this first term. I therefore ask you to complete the second period of this interruption in one sentence and then Mr Bouali will have the floor briefly. Because if we go on like this, I'll have to tell you later that I won't allow any more interruptions. I don't think we want to. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u151	Clear, Mr. Chairman. Can we count on support for our proposals, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u152	Let me be very brief about that. At least I have a track record of attempts to get something extra every time. I did it, and your party didn't do it. In fact, we really have a lot of trouble keeping up. Two. The Netherlands is the fifth largest donor in the European Union when it comes to development cooperation. If we hadn't done anything and pulled the Rutte-Ascher line, we'd be at 0.48%. We are now at 0.59%. So we would have had 10% less money. You want to do extra things for that now. That's just not gonna work. We'll do extra stuff. Those 400 million are like a house. I also call on the Minister to do something extra at diplomatic and political level.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u153	I am going to give Mr Bouali the pleasure of having a debate with me. I have a very specific question. You are right to say that you have deployed all these projects and that you have fought very hard for the money that exists during this cabinet period. They are important and we must continue to do so. Nevertheless, this budget shows that, despite all your efforts and the efforts of your colleagues from the Christian Union and the CDA, we need to cut 110 million. It will also be extended to the second half of next year. That actually means that a much larger part of the budget needs to be cut. Do you have any ideas as to where these cuts should be made? Because I'd say if you had such a legacy, at least make choices where you want to cut back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u154	At least I am happy to find GroenLinks on our side on this dossier. I also saw that you had finally taken action and that you had finally included it in your budget. That's very good. Bravo, Bravo, Look, I'm not gonna beat around the bush. As far as I am concerned, the budget for development cooperation can be increased. This is also clear in our electoral programme: to the 0.7%; take that international responsibility. Except we're not there yet. Yeah, we fought hard, you know that, too, with your help from the Chamber, to get at least that 500 million. That's what worked. In any case, this is what we are trying to do now, at least in the current programmes, to ensure that they can continue. Yeah, that there's gonna be holes... I wish I hadn't seen them either, I have to tell you quite frankly. I can't help it. That's true now. I hope that in 2021 the economy will attract, so that we will make that plus again and at least we will not see those nasty loves. But that is for the economic growth of 2021. But, yes, I'm going to tell you, as far as I'm concerned, it may be more generous. We need a majority for that. That's how democracy works. At least we will step in, as D66, to take responsibility and we will not stand on the sidelines. As a result, we have at least ensured that we have a big plus, with your support, on the BuHa-OS budget, in this worst crisis after the Second World War.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u155	If you get your colleague from the CDA, I think we have a majority in the Chamber to have a decent OS budget in order. I think I just heard her say that's what she's for, so I think we can settle it with each other today or tomorrow. But you didn't answer my question. If the economy is not attracted to it, where are you going to find these gaps? Where are you going to save money? I don't think we can afford that. So did this cabinet in April, but apparently the coalition has come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u156	If you just take a broad look at the budget, we've kept almost everything up. You can also see that if you read the budget correctly. At least that looks solid on all policy articles. That is also because we have arranged the 500 million. There may be sub-areas among those policy areas that may get a little bit less or a little less because we are indeed in heavy weather right now. I thought I'd given you an answer. I'd rather not either, no. You have not, I believe, just interrupted my CDA colleague, but you have interrupted me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u157	Just to get this really sharp. We have had motions adopted here earlier together with Mr Bouali, because there is a progressive majority in the Chamber. If the SGP also participates, there is simply a progressive majority in this Chamber without the right side. Can I take it from what he has just said that, if we are going to try to make motions and amendments to fix that budget on certain parts, at least D66 will be in favour of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u158	No, I can't just say that by definition. But I can tell you what my stakes are going to be. It's very clear. We have just had a little debate on the election programmes. My commitment to this is clear. My party's ready-to-go about that, too. I also asked you if you would like to see with me whether we could do something for refugee children and education. We will soon have to look in the Chamber together to see what we can do if we have taken stock and the Minister has given her answers. My bet will indeed be to do as much extra as possible on OS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u159	Mr. Alkaya, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u160	Finally. I'm looking forward to it. I have just included our very concise electoral programme, which I can recommend to everyone, to look at exactly what we had identified as priorities in the area of development cooperation. It does say: care and infrastructure in developing countries. I just had a really good talk about that with the VVD and the CDA. Can we work with D66 on that, too? Perhaps then we can do something to raise the level of care and infrastructure in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u161	That's a good point. Our electoral programme was also somewhat larger, more inclusive and clearer, as I indicated, so there are many more areas in it. That is what this subject is all about. So that's where we'd like to work with you, too. Everything we can do, internationally, to strengthen and strengthen developing countries, we are going to look. With us it is indeed just a little more themes than with you; you only mention the subject that you are now discussing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u162	Proceed with your speech, Mr Bouali.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u163	Where was I? Remittances, I think. I would like to raise a subject that I have not raised before as a Member of Parliament: remittances. The money that migrants send home to their family and friends every year. This amounts to three times as much as the global expenditure on development cooperation. However, the problem is that migrants now pay high transaction costs, up to 15%, which means that a lot of money is stuck with transaction offices. It is not for nothing that we have agreed on the Sustainable Development Goals that transaction costs will be reduced to 3% by 2030. It's time we started working on that. I would very much like to call on the Minister, following the example of France and Germany, to draw up a national action plan for the Netherlands too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the topic of development cooperation is diversity. More than 10,000 companies and organisations from all over Europe have signed the Charter Diversity, including all government ministries and also a number of prominent companies. Now I wonder if government partners shouldn't either. As far as D66 is concerned, yes. Especially for Dutch organisations in the field of development cooperation, which often operate worldwide, diversity of their offices here in the Netherlands should be a core value. I would like to hear from the Minister whether she shares this view and what we could do to promote it. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to foreign trade, which is also an important issue. I started development cooperation this time because we see the violent effects there among the poorest in the world. However, the external trade portfolio is also a very important element. Looking back on the past few years, the world has not become more stable. Corona had to close the borders, with major consequences for Dutch exports. The WTO is still paralyzed by President Trump and perhaps we will have another four years of trade wars. Let me begin with the enormous crisis we are in. It has become clear that international trade is vulnerable. In vital areas such as medicines and medical equipment, the European Union was too dependent on other countries. Our trade chains also proved to be too focused on one country, China. This minister is familiar with my concerns about this country. China is an asymmetric trading partner of the European Union. There is no reciprocity in procurement and market access. European companies still cannot operate freely on the Chinese market, while Chinese companies invest across Europe. I'd be happy to give the Minister my concerns about this. The diversification of our trade chains to several trading partners around the world and the region is therefore of great importance, especially for our own stability in the Netherlands and the European Union. But this isn't seen that way by everyone in this room. That's what I'm gonna go into. As a diplomat, I was allowed to defend Dutch interests abroad for many years. So I am also pleased to see that external trade has been getting more and more attention in the past year. This minister has led many trade missions. The recognition of this among entrepreneurs is high, according to VNO-NCW. An entrepreneur also told me last week that the economic post network and the service provided under this minister were greatly strengthened. We are very pleased with that. For D66 reiterates that European and international cooperation is indispensable for our prosperity, for our stability and for all the great challenges we face. But it is striking that this Chamber is increasingly split into two camps as soon as we talk about trade. In one camp are those who do recognise the Dutch importance of trade and want to use it as an instrument to work together worldwide on the major challenges, such as climate and poverty. But we also see a very crazy different camp, a very crazy collaboration in this Chamber between left-wing and nationalist right-wing parties. They reject all trade and want to retreat behind the dikes. But sticking your head in the sand doesn't help anyone in this country: the Netherlands, Europe, and certainly not the Amazon, in Latin America. That's my next little bridge, Mr. Chairman. The Amazon is a subject that I come back to every year because I personally care very much about. Year after year we see the rainforest disappear: it is cut down and burned down. This is not just a huge disaster for biodiversity. The rainforest is also very important in combating climate change. In recent years, the Minister has released extra money to combat deforestation. I'm very happy about that. D66 would also like to look further with the Minister at what else we can do, such as banning products from the European market that contribute to deforestation in the Amazon. I would like to hear a response from the Minister. I would also like to thank the Minister for her commitment to international corporate social responsibility. That is now high on the agenda at European level. That is a very good thing. We understand that a proposal is coming soon from Commissioner Reynders and that the Minister is now working nationally. Then there is my final subject, Mr President, because I think the clock is ticking very hard. My final topic is the position of international education. As an educational party, this is an important subject. The Netherlands has a great attraction for foreign students. As an alumni, they provide an important boost for the Dutch knowledge economy and the labour market. Through the Holland Alumni network, these alumni remain connected to the Netherlands. The network thus provides thousands of ambassadors worldwide who have a very warm heart for the Netherlands. It is important for today's and tomorrow's trade relations and for the innovative strength of the Netherlands. I understand this network is under pressure. I would like to see with the Minister what we can do to further strengthen the Holland Alumni network. Mr. Chairman. I'm closing up. We've ended up in one of the worst crises. With colleagues here in the Chamber, I hope that we can now strengthen the OS leg in future Cabinets and that we stand together for that. I also hope that we will work together in this Chamber to further strengthen the trade potential of the Netherlands as an innovative and green trading partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u164	Thank you, Mr. Bouali. I shall now give the floor to Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I naturally join with the congratulations for the esteemed colleague Van den Nieuwenhuijzen; welcome also to this budget debate and congratulations on your maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. This is not a cheerful budget debate, because a fair world seems to be farther away than ever. Oxfam warned this summer that if we don't do something, 12,000 people a day will die of hunger this year. Many millions of people see their income evaporated because of the covid crisis and another hundreds of millions of people don't even know if they have anything to eat tonight. Meanwhile, the world's super rich are only getting richer. The 2,000 billionaires that count our world together have more than the poorest 60% of the world's population. As we speak, families are stuck in drafty, muddy tents in Moria. The contrast can hardly be greater. And what does this cabinet do? Instead of investing extra in OS, right now, and investing in a humanitarian solution to the crisis in Moria, this minister comes up with a budget that represents cuts in many areas, including on important issues such as sexual and reproductive rights, health, food security and education. Moreover, the effects are not even clear yet. We don't hear how these cuts are going down until next spring. What is all this going to mean for our commitment to the SDG goals, I ask the Minister, not only in her department but also in her cabinet. Can the Minister make an effort to ensure that new laws and regulations actually assess the impact on OS, SDGs and gender? I would like to hear how this can be better, more visible and more consistent, just now. And what does the Minister think of the current humanitarian situation at Lesbos almost two months after the scandalous Moriadeal? What is and will be her bet in the coming winter? Mr. Chairman. Previously we talked about the Dutch covid help, which after months of waiting proved to be a disappointing compromise, while corona also works as a magnifying glass worldwide. The covid crisis strengthens existing food supply bottlenecks, such as climate change or grasshoppers' crops. The World Food Programme predicts that as a result of the pandemic, the number of people with acute food insecurity will almost double from 135 million to 265 million. Our cabinet must therefore do more than a cigar from its own box, with a mortgage on the future. That is why, together with GroenLinks and the SP, we are proposing to fix this, so that we are rid of the devilish dilemmas such as choosing between women's rights, education, health care or food security. And still the poorest countries pay off their debts. Can the Minister give us an update on the situation with regard to freezing or absolving it? Mr. Chairman. Local civil society organisations are more important than ever in providing emergency aid. They know where the need is most, and they are crucial to reach out to the most marginalised people, such as women and girls, Ihbtis, refugees and people with disabilities. That is why I would like to reiterate my plea: at least 25% of emergency aid through local civil society organisations and not everything through large multilateral organisations. In those areas where local civil society organisations have added value, can the Minister look at how extra efforts can be made? Mr. Chairman. The shrinking space for NGOs, activists and trade unions has been a major concern for some time now. Several authoritarian regimes have used the covid crisis to further reduce civil society space. Human rights defenders, women's rights defenders, lht activists and trade union leaders are in even more trouble. I would like to hear from the Minister how she stands up for them and what embassies can do more to help them just now. Mr. Chairman. Independent journalism also has a hard time: intimidation, the spread of fake news, uncertain income. Can the Minister indicate what it is going to do to support them instead of reducing support for them? Women and girls are particularly affected by the consequences of the pandemic. They lose their jobs in the informal economy first. There is an increase in violence against women worldwide. We see an increasing number of teenage pregnancies because girls do not go to school, and this while access to care, contraception and safe abortion are even more under pressure. The current pandemic calls for investment in health care, including sexual and reproductive health and rights and HIV/AIDS care, and not for additional cuts as we see them in this budget. That is why, together with Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen, I am tabling an amendment to reduce the amount available for SRGR and HIV/AIDS control at the current level. Is the Minister prepared to discuss with her European counterparts a joint action plan to combat the increasing gender-based violence? Mr. Chairman. Then fair trade. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen (PPE). - (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr van den Nieuwenhuijzen for his excellent report. It only knows companies that want to take responsibility, that want to pay attention to the Climate Agreement and that want to pay a fair wage. I wish! Reality is a lot more grim. Companies that avoid tax on a large scale, do not pay employees a living wage, break environmental rules, cancel orders without compensation, outlaw trade unions, sell products made by children or even forced labourers: I can go on for a while. And what about the truly scandalous story of Fidelia Onoghaife from Nigeria, who was right to ring the bell about Shell's very close ties with the Dutch embassy in her country? She had to pay for it with discharge. Earlier we asked questions about this together with the SP Parliamentary Committee. I look forward to hearing from the Minister what she is going to do to prevent such terrible stories in the future. Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, corporate social responsibility is not our choice, but our expensive duty. A duty that too many companies unfortunately fail to fulfil or fail to fulfil. And where there is no will, there is a law. That is why we have submitted an own-initiative paper together with the Christian Union, GroenLinks and the SP. Finally, a question on this point, Mr President. Can the Minister confirm that endorsement and compliance with OECD guidelines are subject to harsh conditions in any form of subsidy, participation in trade missions and in government procurement policies, whether these are ODA or non-ODA funds? Because we're still building an honest world together.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u166	Thank you. An interruption by Mrs Van Weerdenburg. I'd like her to be brief, too, of course. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u167	Of course, Mr. Chairman. Mrs van den Hul talks about fair trade. That's how we know her. It is undoubtedly one of the reasons why the PvdA voted against CETA, at least in the Lower House. I believe that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is not yet entirely clear on whether there is any doubt about it. My question to Mrs van den Hul is: why did you vote against the amendment I tabled together with the SGP in an attempt to leave CETA to the Second Chamber? You voted against it. So you didn't even want to try. Why did CETA have to go to the First Chamber, where it is now, I believe, being trained for the third time? Is it the intention to avoid loss of face for Minister Kaag, to lift it over the elections?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u168	No, the reason is a lot simpler. The reason why we voted against CETA is not the reason why the PVV Group voted against CETA. Our objections, our concerns, were and are in the unequal access to mechanisms in CETA for trade unions, for environmental activities, for human rights activists. That was our concern. So we do not share the reasoning behind the amendment to which Mrs Van Weerdenburg refers. That is why we did not support that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u169	Finally, Mrs Van Weerdenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u170	From this I can tell that the PvdA's First Chamber will be satisfied with a possible bill from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u171	If Mrs Van Weerdenburg wants to know how our Group of the European People's Party looks at this treaty, she will have to ask the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We're here in the House of Representatives. I am talking about the budget for external trade and development cooperation and not about treaties that are not on the agenda right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u172	I would like to move on to work with Mrs van den Hul of the Labour Party. I've heard a lot about the OS section, about emergency aid. We can fully support that, including what Mrs Kuik said on behalf of the CDA. But what are the plans of the Labour Party to create full-fledged jobs in third countries, for example on the continent of Africa? For a decent income, so that young people, boys and girls there can also realize an African dream, rather than a dream to come to Europe alone. I do not hear the Labour Party talking about creating new jobs. I hear the black-and-white image of everyone, all companies, being cornered, of tax evasion, not dealing with human rights and environmental problems. I hear all that, but where are the nuance and the constructivity to work together with the CDA on new jobs on that continent, where we can create a win-win situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u173	I would like to remind Mr Amhaouch that the combination of the aid and trade agenda that has already been discussed here a few times today is a point that we wholeheartedly support and heartfeltly support. But it must be trade that contributes to development. We certainly have cause for concern there. Several colleagues have already mentioned a long list of examples. I can extend that list, but I can see the chairman looking at the clock. There's just too much going wrong. So yes, of course work is extremely important and it is extremely important to invest in good jobs, but then it must be good jobs. Then there is also a living wage to be paid. That is not the case at the moment in many cases, because who are the margins? People are the margin, and it has to be different.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u174	Finally, Mr. Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u175	We share those concerns together. I think we share it with the whole Chamber, but by naming only those concerns, we cannot provide bread on the shelf, including those people. So I expect from those who are critical of those who cause them to come up with concrete plans on the other hand how we can create jobs together with entrepreneurial Netherlands. I would also like to work on this with the Labour Party in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u176	We do have those plans! Fortunately there is also a very nice SER-advisement that once again underlines what is so important. We have an agreement approach. There very good steps have been taken, especially from the Dutch polder, in dialogue between business and civil society. But we must also draw the conclusion that these steps have not yet worked sufficiently. That is why, together with the Christian Union, the SP and GroenLinks, we have submitted an initiative paper to ensure that the playing field is really fair, so that we really work on that sustainable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you. That is what Mr Voordewind has to say on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on his maiden speech on behalf of the Christian Union. It was a bit surprising, because we've been working with Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen for months to see him make this speech, so I had to hold myself back so I wouldn't interrupt. But welcome to this Chamber as well. Mr. Chairman. This is the last budget of this cabinet and of this minister, in missionary status in any case, as well as my last budget. So it is good to look back at what this minister has done and look forward. Mr. Chairman. There were a number of major challenges of this minister. First of all, we were faced with a large migration influx. The reception in the region was also an important spearhead of this minister. How could we slow down this future flow of migration by investing more in reception in the region, in the home countries? The Minister also set up various funds for this purpose. I thank her for that, too. One of these funds is the Challenge Fund, which Mr Kuik and the undersigned have also called for. Furthermore, the Minister had to continue the SDGs, i.e. the Sustainable Development Goals, and paid particular attention to psychosocial assistance in crisis situations, with a separate two-day conference on this in 2019. She was talking about it. I read it back in her introduction with an eye for the soul. That was very appealing to me. The Minister also tried to smooth out the IMVO agreements, the chain liability agreements, with thirteen sectors at risk. I'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. Colleagues have already talked about the time in which we are sitting: the pandemic, and how it affects the world and makes the need not so much less, but even greater. That is what I said to Mrs Van Weerdenburg. The medical consequences may not be exactly perceptible. This is also because there may be a lack of testing capacity in many of these countries. There will undoubtedly have to be greater recourse to medical care. Apart from that, we already know from the calculations made by the World Bank, the IMF, etc. that jobs are being lost, that international trade is declining, that people, especially day workers, are seeing their work evaporate. So more help is needed. This minister himself was also faced with a decline in GNI. The coalition colleagues have already referred to this. Fortunately, the coalition and the cabinet have managed to offset this jointly with an additional 500 million. That goes on until 2022. This means that the government does not threaten current programmes, despite the decline in GNI. Mr. Chairman. We hope, of course, that the GDP of the Netherlands will rise again in the future. I am pleased that this cabinet has taken a wise decision not to take any further action on business when it comes to the fight against corona and, at the same time, to maintain the current measures. I hope that we, as the Netherlands, will be able to restore our economic growth. This also has positive effects on the budget for development cooperation. Mr. Chairman. Is this enough to tackle the global crisis? No, absolutely not. We know the Netherlands doesn't have to do that alone. We know there are billions available at the World Bank. We know from other Member States and the European Commission that they have reserved additional funds. This cabinet, too, has made additional funds available for the negative effects of the corona pandemic. That doesn't mean we're gonna sit on our hands. That is why I will propose in the second term to grow back to 0.7% of GDP in development aid. That's what it takes. We have tried to reverse the negative trend with this coalition and this cabinet. We trust and ask the Cabinet to draw up a plan to grow back to 0.7%, so that concrete proposals can be made later in the cabinet negotiations. We know the fellow Secretary of Defense did the same thing. This Minister has actually already announced it in an earlier note, but we ask her to do so before the end of this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u179	Mr. Van Raan, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u180	It is good news to hear 0.7% of the Christian Union on that path of growth. Now there is already a motion by my group chairman Esther Ouwehand to do so. I wonder if the Christian Union would be prepared to support that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u181	I remember that motion. It came from the APB, the General Political Reviews. We were positive about that in itself, if it had not been added a sentence stating that the funds had to be made available during this cabinet period. That would mean an additional investment of 2 billion. At least that's how I read the motion. Maybe she wasn't meant to be. Perhaps Mr Van Raan can explain that. Hence our reservations back then. I hope to be able to work together with Mr Van Raan to see if we can come to such a plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u182	That seems to me to be a gain, because I can remove that doubt or hesitation. At least that's not the way the motion was meant to be. The 2 billion spent already was not the issue, but the goal to grow back. I can tell we're in there the same way. So maybe we can do business.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u183	Then let's take a look at the motion. That suggestion seemed to be reflected in the motion. Perhaps we will come together to make a very clear appeal to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Dan Lesbos. During covid we were confronted with the terrible fires on Lesbos. The current images are even more dramatic. People are knee-deep in the blubber. We know that this is an area of polluted soil, where no one was supposed to go. It was used as a training ground. That's where we're putting people, in the blubber. It is really shameless that Europe should allow this. Europe looks at it and we do nothing. This minister has released 1 million. I commend her for that, but it's really far too little to do anything about the misery. I would ask the Minister to see if there is anything more to be done in her budget, and I know that this must be non-ODA, because it is not a developing country, but Greece, or that we can encourage other countries to alleviate the suffering there. I also ask her when these 100 children and their parents will come to the Netherlands. I know that has a bit of a run-in with the Secretary of State for Justice, but it's been promised by the Cabinet. When's this gonna happen? I also call on her, perhaps together with her colleagues, to call for most of the vulnerable people who are in this situation to be removed from the islands and, at least, to be accommodated on the Greek mainland, in the hotels that are now empty. I'd like to hear her response on that point. People are not dogs, even though they are in those refugee camps under terrible conditions. Mr. Chairman. Then the effects of covid on trade. Covid has shown that the Netherlands and Europe depend on international trade. We've seen that with the protective equipment we were short on. The group chairmen Heerma and Segers have called on the cabinet to establish a safety planning agency to reduce future vulnerable dependency relationships on goods, services and products. What's the progress on the implementation of that motion? As far as we are concerned, that does not have to be a separate institution. We can also see if already existing institutions, such as Clingendael and HCSS, but also the AIV can join forces. Dan Mercosur, President. I am curious to see what is going on with the forthcoming trade agreements, such as Mercosur. We have spoken to Mercosur before here in this Chamber because we felt that this was irresponsible at a time when we want to look at transparency in the chains and sustainability, and when we see that the forests in the Amazon are being burned and not being reduced. Countries such as Austria, Germany, France, Ireland and so on have already said that they do not agree. What is the Minister's position on this Mercosur agreement? Then imvo. The KIT and also the SER have now issued a report and evaluation: Together towards sustainable chain impact. The Chamber has also received the letter of obligation from this Minister. We have also had a reaction to our own initiative paper against slavery and exploitation. I thank the Minister for that. I was surprised, however, that we are moving on to Europe. Why was there no enthusiasm about national legislation, as this minister had previously? Surely it is clear what these OECD guidelines are? We can't waste any time. Of course, it is the ideal thing for Europe to pick this up, but in the meantime we must not sit on our hands. We must also make our own national legislation. As is well known, a number of parties, including the Christian Union, are working on such an initiative law. Mr President, I see that Mr Bouali has something to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u184	Mr. Bouali, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u185	I will be very brief indeed. Mr Voordewind also knows that there has been a reasonable acceleration at European level on the IVO pathway. In my contribution, I referred to it. Commissioner Reynders has really gotten to work. So do you not see what is happening in this European pathway? Because if Europe comes up quickly with legislation, or with elements of it or with binding measures, is that much more sensible? Wouldn't it be strange if we were to do all kinds of things here in the Netherlands? I am not against it, but the European pathway is also very relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u186	Certainly, but we also know how fast Europe works. This debate has been going on in Europe for years. I will be a Member of Parliament for 14 years in November, and I have been working on this subject for 14 years. Several reports have already disappeared in desk drawers in Brussels. I see the efforts of Commissioner Reynders, but we also see that this is likely to result only in the summer of next year. So I would say: let us as a Chamber now lay down an initiative law, so that we will have building blocks that we can use in the negotiations that you may be taking part in. Germany is doing the same now and France has done it before. Others are in the process of making legislation. If we all stick to these OECD directives, with those six steps to shape chain liability, then it can only lead to a harmonisation of the laws we have made so far. France isn't waiting either. France is now also working on its own legislation, Germany is now working on it and so on. My appeal to Mr Bouali would therefore be: join in! Let us quickly create a national law that will be on the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u188	And I will tell you that I will need one or two minutes later, but I will remove that from my other speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u189	I'm not gonna let you do that, because we're running out of time. The others need to speak, too. And even then we won't be able to keep it in time, so you really will have to explain the rest of your story in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u190	But, Mr. Chairman, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u191	No, I am going to give the floor to the next speaker, and that is Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u192	Mr President, I am not finished.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u193	That may be true, but you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u194	Then I'll take some time off my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u195	But I am telling you that I am not going to allow that, because we are already running out of time for this debate. That means that I am really going to give the floor to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u196	Mr President, I am entitled to my speaking time. There is ten minutes of speaking time, and I would like to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u197	You have indicated that you will use the speaking time indicated for this period. You used it, and I'll hold you to it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u198	That's an indication. I've been assigned ten minutes. That's what I told you. So I'd like to finish my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u199	I'm not gonna let you do that. I now give the floor to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u200	No, Mr. President, this is the order of the Chamber. That is what you are primarily talking about, but I have just been allocated ten minutes. That's just a legal right I have, and I can also use that of my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u201	You will have two minutes and no more interruptions will be allowed from now on. You have two minutes to finish your story, and then we won't hear from you in the second term, I guess. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u202	Mr President, in the second term, I can still use minutes that I can spend on other budgets. So I hope you've got that sharp, too. Then I'll finish my contribution quickly. The strengthening of civil society is a spearhead of the Minister. But I do see a shift in multilateral organisations from 34% to 42% over the last period. I call on the Minister to keep that more balanced if she really considers that private channel to be so important. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the budget itself. In the global pandemic, we must not lose sight of the most vulnerable, especially children who are sexually abused. About 2 million children are sexually abused every day. It even happens under the supervision of and with the permission of their own parents. Children who must be loved and need safety are traumatized and damaged for life. I ask the Minister: let us continue with the children's fund for combating prostitution, which expires in 2021. I am considering doing something about that in the second term too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I go into the Dutch Relief Alliance fund. I understand the Minister is just going through with it. That's fine, too. I also understand the need for help from the Minister when it comes to the EU delegation co-operation in areas such as Nigeria. Would the Minister like to give her commitment and support to this? Mr. Chairman. Finally. I started with a review of this minister's OS policy. It was not the Minister's commitment. I would like to thank her on behalf of my group for her commitment to the poorest in the world. I hope that these issues, such as reception in the region, imvo and the fight against child abuse, can still be put on the scaffold before we have to give up together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u203	Thank you, Mr Voordewind. I call Mr Van Raan of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u204	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to congratulate Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. For many it seems as if COVID-19 has come out of the sky and is bad luck that we have not had any influence on ourselves. We are only pleased with the virologists who guide us through this misery as well and as angry as it is. The Netherlands listens to them, because the pandemic is new to almost everyone, but it is not at all for virologists. But how we hang on to their lips now is in stark contrast to how we ignored their earlier calls for years. Because one of their most important advices was always: leave nature alone. Wild animals, who can't do anything about it, may be carriers of innocent viruses for themselves. But once humans enter the animal habitat, these viruses can jump on humans. Nature has an immeasurable diversity of viruses found in all kinds of living beings. Over the past decade, more than three quarters of all new infectious diseases have come from animals. The best medicine against future pandemics is therefore to leave nature and the animals alone. Does the Minister agree? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. COVID-19 is bad luck, but it didn't fall out of the sky. It's not a black swan no one saw coming. After all, man does not leave nature and animals alone. In our own interest we must stay away from the untapped nature, stay away from the Amazon rainforest, stay away from the Cerrado, stay away from the jungles of Borneo and stay away from the jungles of West Papua. We have to stay away from any primal area. Man has no business there. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, however, the Dutch minister of: man has no business doing so. The most important task of this minister is to make colleagues and Heads of Government aware of the need to leave nature alone. Its trade policy should therefore also be completely dependent on keeping our hands off what is not ours. But that's not going very well. That's not good at all. As Minister for Trade, she welcomes the European Commission's conclusion of trade deals which we know are at the expense of nature elsewhere in the world. There are advanced negotiations with Indonesia, other South-East Asian countries and South America, among others. These trade deals also reduce these countries to producers of cheap feed, cheap meat, for the European market. It's colonialism in a modern jacket on hip sneakers. Mr. Chairman. Last year, together with colleagues from D66 and GroenLinks, I received a delegation from the original inhabitants of the Amazon. It was a poignant meeting. Where we thought we could provide help to those who are threatened, from a sort of superior position, it was actually the other way around. These people came to help us to see how disastrous the trade deal with South America is. Their urgent advice was to stop the trade deal. That deal is one of the driving forces behind the accelerating deforestation and desertification of Brazilian nature, one of the driving forces behind the increasingly violent human rights violations. If you give a shit about us, that's how they tied the MPs in the ears. Stop the Mercosur deal. It gives Bolsonaro and deforestation companies free play in the Amazon. Mr. Chairman. We are pleased that part of the Chamber has listened. I feel that I am going to listen to Mr Bouali now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u205	Well, I don't think so, because I'm not gonna allow any more interruptions. I'm very sorry, but there's no other way. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u206	But what does the Minister do? Instead of reaching out to the people in need, it puts a heart in the company. She knows "only companies that want to be responsible." Mr. Chairman. It feels like a maiden speech at once. I can say anything. Dangerous point, dangerous point in the speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u207	I hope you do it in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u208	Sure, sure. The Minister said: I only know companies that want to be responsible. I really need some help understanding this. Does Shell stand before the courts because Shell has so generously taken responsibility for the unimaginable pollution and destruction of the Niger Delta? What responsibility does Albert Heijn take if it fills the shelves with meat and dairy from animals fed with deforestation cattle from South America? If Vion felt so responsible, why did the security region have to close down a Vion slaughterhouse with the help of police last May because the corona contaminations ran out of control? Moreover, I do hesitate to mention the sources of these investigations before the Weverling brainwave or no-brainwave takes action to stop subsidies for the clubs that have investigated this. Mr. Chairman. I could have filled more contributions with companies that do not want to be responsible at all, but that is not the point. The point, of course, is that the first responsibility of companies is to make profits. Then, fortunately, if it is right, we have the government, the cabinet, the Minister for Development Cooperation, who stand up for the fragile values, for the citizens. At least, if it's okay. The Party for Animals does seek connection and international cooperation with people who fight nonviolently to protect animals, nature and the environment in their environment, with people who take responsibility and try to protect what is vulnerable and valuable. Thus the Party for the Animals creates acceptance where it is not always self-evident. Farmers' and environmental organisations joined forces in their opposition to the Mercosur deal. Fortunately, the rest of the Chamber joined and wiped the deal off the table as well. After the Netherlands, resistance also grew in Germany and the European Parliament. The position of the Chamber is crystal clear. An inlay sheet isn't gonna save the deal. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. I look through my lines because I don't want to run out of time. In my contribution I mentioned examples of the structural destruction of primordial forests, sacrificed to the addiction to animal proteins and the destruction of the Nile Delta for oil extraction, sacrificed to the addiction to fossil fuels. These are examples of ecocide, large-scale damage to ecosystems. Until recently this was an unknown phenomenon for this minister, but more and more people now see what man does to nature. More and more people understand that ecocide should be punished. The Animal Party therefore believes that ecocide as a crime should be punishable. I would like a response from this Minister on her position in this matter. Mr. Chairman. It is also this Minister for Development Cooperation who has made the position of young women and human rights her priorities. That is good and important, and that is a credit to the Minister. The Animal Party supports that. But it is also the minister who, with her policy, is ensuring that the world is further globalised. Globalisation is disrupting local communities. When that happens, women are the first victims of it. We've seen a recent report by ActionAid on palm oil production in Central America confirming that image. We know that the situation of the Uighurs, for example, is terrible. And we do so little about it. In fact, we are concluding these trade agreements with South America and an investment agreement with China. Binding improv legislation is being postponed by the Minister. All of us are waiting for Europe. I'll talk to you in a few minutes. What's the secretary gonna do? Finally, Mr President. The Netherlands promised to take 100 refugees from Moria a few weeks ago. This was at the expense of 100 refugees elsewhere. You can't sink deeper. A bottom deal. But what does it turn out to be? At the moment, the Netherlands has not even brought 100 refugees here. Fix that deal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u209	Mr. Van Raan, thank you very much. Let us now listen to Mr Stoffer of the SGP's contribution. Are you making a point, Mr Bouali?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u210	I understand that the clock is ticking, but this is the budgetary treatment of BuHa-OS. I think it is important that, as Members of Parliament, we should also be able to ask questions and intervene. My colleague from the Animal Party had a good story. I would like to interrupt on that, so I would also like to see whether we have the opportunity to do so in the course of a budget debate. It is once a year that we sit here in plenary. I'd like to see if we can create a little room for that. However, we must bear in mind that we are not doing too many interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u211	Yeah, that's a good call, but it's coming too late for this debate, I'm afraid. This means that we are now simply going to listen to Mr Stoffer's input.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u212	Mr. Chairman. I recently discovered a beautiful word, "benkadi" in a publication of a valued Dutch development organisation. It comes from Burkina Faso and means as much as "together for charity." It points to an unselfish and unconditional caritas that the world needs so badly at this time. In that respect, I see the early Christian church as an important example, as we also read in the Book of Acts: "And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they sold their possessions and their possessions, and divided them among all according to what they needed." A warm plea for loving generosity, perhaps because you love giving does not become poorer. Mr. Chairman. The covid pandemic increases the need to go together for charity. Fortunately, the Netherlands plays a role in the global fight against corona, but I am concerned, because the economy and employment are declining worldwide. Worldwide, the number of people suffering from hunger will increase considerably. That is precisely why I fear the cuts in development cooperation by means of substantial cash cuts. In this case, not only corona measures, but also the regular ODA programmes are under strong pressure. I believe that this is at odds with the Van der Staaij motion that was adopted, in which the Minister was asked to maintain the ODA budget and, where necessary, even to invest extra in health care and food security. My question to the Minister is: how can these substantial cuts be avoided in the future? I can see, of course, that it has been arranged for this year. But just now I have also shown in an interruption towards the CDA, I think, how great that concern is for the future. Mr. Chairman. A few years ago, I visited the organization Light for the World in Uganda. I was impressed by the love and professionalism with which people with disabilities and visual disabilities were helped. My question is: does the education and emergency aid programmes cover children and young people with disabilities? How is that monitored? I am also very curious to see how the Minister implements my motion on targeted aid to the poorest and the most vulnerable. I see in the budget that it is under discussion, but I would like to have some more words and a little more colour. Mr. Chairman. In Uganda I also found the strong local rooting and therefore the sustainable impact that I see more often with Dutch aid organisations abroad. I therefore believe that development cooperation money should be reduced through multilateral organisations. My question to the Minister is whether she is prepared to spend more money on her own management and under her own policies in the coming years through often effective Dutch organisations. Dutch entrepreneurs, including SMEs, also deserve strong support in terms of imvo and sustainability. We can also take firm steps in this. My questions are as follows. How does the Netherlands promote good banking support for entrepreneurship and investment abroad? How is the Minister going to encourage compliance with the OECD guidelines for imvo? Unfortunately, despite the adaptation of the IAC, new laws and regulations are not always consistently assessed for the impact on development cooperation. Then, of course, I am talking about the SDG test. I would very much like a reflection from the Minister on how we could improve this. Mr. Chairman. The SGP Group wholeheartedly supports the OS policy objectives of protecting women and girls from disadvantage and violence, but it notes an important gap. Because what does the Netherlands do against coercion or violence about surrogacy and abortion? How do we fight gendercide, abortion of girls because of their gender? Because there is still much to be gained here, the SGP has recently been working on an initiative paper entitled Force against women, around love, body and life. I hope to submit this note shortly for consideration in the Chamber. For let us also protect life and the family in the OS policy and look for ways to promote responsible and loving mother and fatherhood. Mr. Chairman. The SGP welcomes the Abraham agreements between Israel and the Arab states, but unfortunately Europe is standing still. The EU-Israel Association Agreement has not been modernised for years and the Association Council does not meet at ministerial level. My question to the Minister is whether she can make proposals within the ISD for restarting formal discussions within the Association Council in order to modernise the EU-Israel Association Agreement. Finally, Mr President. China also demands our attention because of unequal market access, technology theft and major strategic Chinese investments, including in our country. In the meantime, human rights, including religious freedom, are being violated in China and peace in the region is under pressure. That is why the SGP says: strengthen ties with Taiwan by actively promoting a bilateral investment agreement between the EU and Taiwan within the EU. The Dutch business community also has a lot to gain from this. I would like to have a response from the Minister on my proposal. I'll leave it at that, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u213	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. The next speaker on the list is not present, and that means that I can move on to the following speaker: Mr Van Haga. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u214	Mr. Chairman. I am also speaking on behalf of the Forum for Democracy. Last year we had all kinds of important issues to think about in the budget, but everything has become relative now that we are dealing with a global corona crisis. Not because corona is now so deadly, with a global infection fatality rate of 0.23%, but because of the disproportionate measures taken in different countries. The collateral damage caused by this is enormous. As a result, almost all economies worldwide are shrinking. The economies of the countries are shrinking the hardest where the strictest corona measures are introduced. The estimates vary, but the Dutch economy fell by 8.5% in the second quarter and according to the IMF will shrink by 5.4% throughout 2020. That will undoubtedly get worse now that we are heading for another lockdown because in recent years we have drastically reduced the capacity of the hospital beds and the ic-beds. In 2015 we had 2,200 ic-beds and now Ernst Kuipers has to fight the coronavirus with 1,150 ic-beds, thanks to the previous cabinet. Foreign trade, which accounts for a third of our income, will also be hit hugely. Moreover, the shrinkage of the various sectors of activity is directly related to the measures taken by the public authorities. For example, construction production hardly shrunk in the second quarter, as relatively few corona measures were introduced. In Belgium, on the other hand, construction production fell by 40% because many construction companies had to close down. As we know by now, these measures have had no effect whatsoever and many construction companies in Belgium have been wrongly hit hard. The stupidity of national measures is one-on-one correlated with the shrinkage of the economy. The overall global economic decline due to all corona measures is now estimated at 4.4% by 2020. The global impact of the measures taken has also been identified. Professor Michaéla Schippers of Erasmus University in Rotterdam indicates that the negative effects of the measures are many times greater than the positive effects. In her last paper, "For the Greater Good? The Devastating Ripple Effects of the Lockdown Measures," she describes the paradoxical effects. Governments who think they can save lives by taking strict measures are creating millions more deaths from hunger and delayed medical treatment. As is often the case, a large part of this tragic self-created disaster ends up in developing countries. My question to the Minister is as follows. Is the Minister aware of the conclusions of Professor Michaéla Schippers? If so, does it support the conclusion that the corona measures are a humanitarian disaster? And finally, how are we going to get here from the Netherlands, how is the Minister going to exert influence from her department to prevent this? Mr. Chairman. Then China. It is interesting that the corona virus originated in Wuhan, but that the Chinese economy no longer suffers from COVID-19 and shows a growth rate of 4.9% in the third quarter. The Chinese economy will be positive for the whole year, while we are still helpless in the Netherlands with all kinds of measures that do not drive the virus out, but destroy the economy. Mr. Chairman. China was already a problem, but Corona will make the problems out of control if we don't do something about it. Our business is in intensive care and Chinese companies are ready to buy our beautiful companies for an apple and an egg, while we are still not allowed to buy companies in China. Occasionally you hear that for a single company it is prevented from falling into Chinese hands, such as the recently prevented takeover of shipyard IHC, which was rescued by a state injection of EUR 325 million, but I wonder if that is not the tip of the iceberg. The EU Competition Commissioner, Vestager, recently launched the plan to combat unfair competition from non-EU companies. It is generally believed that this is specifically directed against China, and rightly so. That is why I have the following question to the Minister. What exactly is the situation with Commissioner Vestager's plan? What does this mean for the Netherlands? And how do we prevent unwanted Chinese corona takeovers from taking place? Is it not time to demand reciprocity on the penalty of exclusion? If we are not allowed to buy companies in China, why are they allowed to buy them here? Does the Minister have an overview of companies in the danger zone? Is there a protocol that will inform her? Does she agree with me that this is a major risk to us in this corona crisis? Mr. Chairman. The existing problems with China are still there. AliExpress sends billions of packages almost for free around the world. Our shopping streets are becoming army by Chinese online companies that don't follow the rules, allowing them to deliver their products to the buyer at home for a fraction of the cost. We have been completely naive for years and are not really giving our own entrepreneurs a fair chance anymore. Furthermore, China does not comply with WTO rules and, as has been said, Chinese companies can simply buy Dutch companies, whereas they cannot do so on the other hand. State aid granted by the Chinese authorities is more rule than exception. Patents and intellectual property are widely violated and fake products are offered online at spot prices. Marks are being forged. Although the VAT exemption for products under the €22 will be lifted as of 1 January 2021, my question to the Minister is: will this be monitored, monitored as to the impact of this change and can we get a report on it? Furthermore, no import duties are paid on products below €150 from outside the EU. As far as I know, but I may have missed it, there is no plan to change it either. My question to the Minister is: why not? Would it not be appropriate to reduce this threshold or at least to examine the optimum threshold, with better balance of positive and negative effects? Mr. Chairman. The general question is perhaps: the cabinet has a China strategy for a number of years now, but what measures have been taken? Mr. Chairman. Then there is the import levies on steel, a recurring theme. The import levies on steel imposed by the Trump Government have not yet been lifted. Just like last year, Dutch companies such as Van Merksteijn International are always suffering from the countermeasures that the EU has put in place. Minister Kaag has been trying for years to do something about this, but unfortunately she catches every time in the EU. The following problem has now arisen. The EU wants to introduce a CO import charge on imports of a number of goods, including steel, cement and energy. The question now is where the EU is going to draw the line. What happens to the import of finished products which, for example, account for more than 80% of the weight of steel? Can they be introduced without a CO import charge? What influence can this minister have on that? Mr. Chairman. Last year, I filed a motion to stop subsidies to activist clubs. Unfortunately, that motion was then rejected. Mr Weverling has just made a flaming speech about this. I have just said in the interrupting debate that it was quite a flaming argument, but that he and his party, my old party, of course, did not support my motion last year. I find it strange that we give millions to organizations that then go to trial against the government with this money. But I'm afraid it's gonna get worse this year. Through the Policy Framework to strengthen civil society, i.e. the Power of Voices grant programme, no less than EUR 825 million will go to all kinds of organisations which, as far as I am concerned, do not necessarily do good things. Mrs Van Weerdenburg has already mentioned the subsidy circus, and in fact I cannot say it more beautifully. The policy framework reads as a Marxist pamphlet using 'the influence of the agenda of decision-makers, of (...) political debates, of decision-making procedures... in order to achieve social change'. It also says: "For groups with unequal opportunities (...) it is important to change existing power relations (...)." End of quote. It's kind of funny, isn't it? The whole piece is steeped in diversity, inclusiveness and cultural relativism and is based on the comprehensive theory of change, where differences in society are considered as a reason for poverty. And all of our taxpayers' money. What is nice to note in this context is that I have spoken with almost all these organisations and that it has never made it to the media. Organisations like Milieudefensie, UNRWA, Both ENDS, SOMO, Greenpeace: they all have no clean blazon, not to mention Oxfam Novib's sex parties. And yet, these kinds of organizations are going to get our taxpayers' money and then harass our government and influence governments abroad, so that they can become even more inclusive and diverse. It's really beyond comprehension. In the Netherlands, parties are censored away with a different opinion, but these organisations receive extra money. Can the Minister indicate whether a certain independence is still required of these grant recipients? How do we check that our money is well spent and not used to do all kinds of perverse things? As I said, I have already tabled a motion on this once. I think I'm going to reapply it. And now I am counting on the support of Mr Weverling, who has fortunately turned on this point this year. Finally, Mr President. The corona crisis has a major impact on foreign trade and development cooperation. The foreign trade gets a huge hit. Our own companies have become incredibly vulnerable and economies worldwide will be incredibly shrinking. As indicated earlier, many more people will die from the corona measures of the various governments and the poorest countries will pay a high price. This cabinet, too, is to blame for this. But, yes, you cannot blame this minister for the fact that her colleagues are making decisions that not only destroy the economy and international trade, but also have a devastating effect on many other countries. Mr President, that is my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u215	Thank you, Mr. Van Haga. That brings us to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-28-tweedekamer-3.u216	The follow-up, the Minister's reply, will take place tomorrow from 10.15 a.m. That means we can stop now.
