ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u1	The question is now addressed by Mr Baudet, on behalf of the Forum for Democracy, to the Minister for the Environment and Living, whom I would like to welcome. The question concerns unanswered written questions concerning correspondence between the KNMI and CLINTEL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, it recently became known that there would not have been 23 heat waves between 1901 and 1951, but only 7. That came after the data that would be available would have been re-evaluated. In other words, the KNMI, our meteorological institute, has actually done a kind of revaluation of the available figures, which then shows up, and then Gerrit Hiemstra can announce with a lot of aplomb on the Journal that there is an increase in heat waves. A lot of questions have arisen about that adjustment of those dates. In my view, the KNMI is one of those institutions, with the RIVM, the PBL and so on, which are actually losing their authority, and that also applies to the judiciary in the Netherlands, because they go beyond political statements and political choices that do not really suit them. It is incredibly important that we as the Lower House take our responsibility to control the minister at this point, and to encourage her to keep all those independent administrative bodies, such as the KNMI, on a tight leash. That's why I'm up here. Unfortunately, we didn't get an answer. The questions were asked on 12 September. The core is: why did the KNMI modify those data in this way, and why are the source data of the homogenization program not released? Why can we not check ourselves on the basis of which this adjustment of the heat wave data was made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was told that it was a question of answering the questions raised on 20 December. This concerns other questions, namely the findings of the CLINTEL group. The questions to which Mr Baudet refers are questions that we have already discussed in a general discussion, on which I think Mr Baudet has a lot of questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u4	No, it's about...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u5	... but which in general is clear that this homogenization, which Mr Baudet is talking about, is simply a regular process carried out by the KNMI. By the way, the KNMI is under various peer reviews and has to be supported over and over again, and in fact prove that it is a knowledge institute of excellence, just as with the judgments on the PBL and RIVM. So I note that Mr Baudet has doubts about this, but that the peer review reports certainly do not give any reason to do so. I therefore think it would be a good idea to say clearly here that the cabinet fully supports these institutes of knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u6	But as far as I'm concerned, it's about adjusting the heat wave data. What peer review has there been of that, according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u7	Mr. Chairman. It is about the evaluation committee that makes external visits to, for example, the RIVM, the KNMI, the NVWA, the WODC. In the case of the KNMI and RIVM, a number of quality requirements have been used. The conclusion for the KNMI is that the audit committee found I will translate it further into Dutch... that the KNMI has achieved excellence in its research, both in the weather, as well as for climate model developments, satellite and ground observation and seismology. That is what the independent visitation committee has judged on the KNMI. The questions about homogenization have been discussed in a general discussion. I understand that Mr Baudet wanted to get answers here today to questions he asked on 20 December. I can reassure him that these questions are also ready to be answered. Those answers can be sent to the Chamber today or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u8	No, it's about homogenizing the data for warming. You said, in that consultation, that those answers would come to me in writing. They're still not in, and that's why I'm here now. Those source data are not public. There hasn't been a peer review of the adaptation of those heat wave data by the KNMI at all. Where an adjustment would be justified, this would be a maximum adaptation of 0.4°C, while the KNMI 1.9°C has put less heat in the books between 1901 and 1951 and is therefore greatly affected. They just want to propagate the madness, the hysteria of the climate alarmists. That's what's happening here. All we're asking is for the source data to be made public. That is also what we are doing with a number of other partners in nitrogen hysteria. There we also said: RIVM must make the source data public. The fact is, these facts are being tampered with. Why can't you just ask the KNMI to make everything public now?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u9	Mr. Chairman. This is a repetition of what we have exchanged in general consultation. I've got...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u10	No, that's not true. I have the transcript right here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u11	Easy, Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u12	It's not true. I'll see where it stands, quote what you said at the time: "I'll come back to this. We'll make a deal." I've got it right here. I'll send it over. I'm standing here right now and now you're saying, "Wait a minute, we've already talked about that." That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u13	No, but you have reported that you would like to ask questions about unanswered written questions. So those are questions that actually have to be answered within a certain time limit. Usually you get a reprieve for that, and when that's really over, we'll let you have a request like that. But I understand that there has now been a misunderstanding about questions that have been discussed before or that have been discussed in general consultations. So maybe the Minister can go into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u14	Mr. Chairman. Let me make it easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u15	Otherwise, the people who watch can...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u16	I have been asked to come here today to answer written questions put on 20 December. I'd like to be prepared for that. I'm prepared for that. I do indeed remember Mr Baudet asking questions about homogenisation in a general discussion, which I believe was sometime in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u17	That was September.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u18	I answered a number of questions about this at the time, and I think he has the transcript there for himself, not me, I said it out of my mind at that time: I think it is important that the KNMI should consult again with Mr Baudet, something like that. I didn't make a commitment at the time about disclosure of source data or anything like that. I didn't just say that that was peer-reviewed. I have just said that we have no doubts about the scientific excellence of the KNMI. I see that Mr Baudet has repeatedly tried to sow doubt at various knowledge institutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u19	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u20	As far as the KNMI is concerned, there is no KNMI. And the position of the cabinet is that we rely on the audit committee, so the scientists who assess these kinds of institutions. I also think it is important that we also say that we have confidence in those reports from the scientists who, for us, assess the excellent quality of our knowledge institutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u21	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u22	So I have these questions. Last but not least, the Minister is concerned about this and should be able to reply to it. She ultimately controls the KNMI, she also directs it and has an overview role in it. What I can do is to put these questions back in writing, if it is apparently unable to answer them now, and if they are not answered again, then here again. In the end, however, this is really what we need to do in the Chamber: to appeal to you, to the Minister if we think that bodies, knowledge institutes as they are called, or political lobby groups as I see them most of all, do not do what they are set up to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u23	Thank you. You've made your point. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u24	The last thing we need to do is try to steer independent knowledge institutes from a political point of view in their outcomes. I'm definitely not gonna do that. But if Mr Baudet has any questions, he can always put them in writing. Then we'll get a proper answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u25	Those are the questions you're going to submit. You are free to do so, and that is also your right to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u26	The KNMI has to focus on predicting the weather and that is often difficult enough. What they certainly shouldn't worry about is the climate. And that turns out again, because as leading scientists of the Claintel Foundation there were actually Mr Baudet's unanswered questions about a serious discussion with the KNMI, then that discussion is abruptly ended in an arrogant and even inferior way. And I just can't. Then the question is how on earth the cabinet can throw many billions of dollars into climate policy, partly based on an agency that is so dubious and so dubious and not open to discussion. Is it the role of the KNMI to make a serious contribution, or is it the role of the KNMI to fool us all and thus maintain the climate madness of this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u27	This little straw goes one step further now. There is no reason to assume that the KNMI would not want to engage seriously with this party either, because they do want to. I spoke to the KNMI before I came here. There's still contact. Things are exchanged via e-mails. At some point it is also important that CLINTE should also take his contribution to the scientific debate to the international fora where that discussion is held. I think that's important. This contributes to the completeness of the debate. That seems to me to be the way to continue this discussion. I'm inviting CLINTEL to that, too. Take part and then complete the debate with the information they have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u28	But the KNMI refused to give an official response to the investigation of CLINTEL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u29	I don't have any specific information on whether they would have refused. I know there's contact and I know there are email exchanges. I think it is important to include information that CLINTEL thinks is available at some point in time in the broader scientific debate. It can also be judged on its merits, much better than you and I can in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u30	I fully agree that information should be publicly available in order to be part of the public debate. That is why we are also calling on the KNMI to make the source data of the homogenisation programme available to independent research or to all of us, instead of keeping it in some model that no one can see.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u31	As far as I know, models are also very often peer-reviewed. So in that sense they are also insightful to other scientists. Once again, the KNMI as a whole is peer-reviewed and assessed as a whole on its quality and also participates in all kinds of scientific discussions. By the way, the conversation with CLINTEL is also open. They were also invited to the KNMI to have that discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-21-tweedekamer-5.u32	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote afterwards.
