ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u1	We will continue with the debate on the European Summit. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Most of the questions, of course, were about the proposal for a fund, a kind of emergency fund for Europe. I had the thought of starting with that. Then a few more answers will come to the questions about Brexit, about Apollo Vredestein and about vaccination. So I'll do it separately. Those are the four topics, but the bulk will be about the Recovery and Resilience Fund, the RRF. Maybe a few very brief introductory remarks. It is, of course, an extremely complex discussion. Why do I think we need to do something about this in Europe now? Because in Europe you see that the economies that are a little stronger are now able to invest more in recovering from the crisis than those that are less capable of doing so. This threatens to distort further the growth that was already taking place in Europe. That is a risk to stability within the European Union. This debate often refers to the importance of the internal market. I very much endorse that. There was also reference to geopolitical instability, with an increasingly complex relationship between the United States and China, and with Russia, which is actually trying to play on all chessboards, at the risk that Europe is not a player, but a playing field. Europe must be a player and not a playing field; the risk is that Europe will increasingly become a playing field and not a player. To this end, it is important that there is stability within Europe. There is often a reference to solidarity. I think that's a wonderful word too. I am also totally in favour of being prepared in difficult times to show solidarity with countries that are struggling. But solidarity is that you must be prepared, as a country that is not doing well, to take all measures to ensure that you can solve it yourself next time. It is not possible to explain to anyone that you want to borrow money in any way, via the MFF or whatever, to countries in trouble, but that you cannot at the same time demand from those countries that they do everything in their power to be stronger for it next time. We know from this that I come to the conclusion of my introductory statement that there is late maintenance in a number of countries; that is how honestly we should appoint it. This is about reforming the labour market, reforming the pension system, collecting taxes, collecting them at all, and, of course, the whole legal system. That is a complicated debate. That's so complicated that I'm really not gonna be able to figure it out in the next few weeks, if at all. But at the end of the day you will have to strive for that compromise because of the great importance that I really support, namely to prevent the European Union from being weakened as a major guarantor of security and stability in this part of the world. But once again, this means that solidarity has two sides: solidarity with countries that are struggling, but also solidarity from those countries. They have to realize that they have to do everything they can. In answering the questions, I come back even more to how you do it and where we are now. We're still in that process very early, so I don't have all the answers yet. But you also expect solidarity from countries that are struggling. You have to build in conditionality to use that word. They go beyond the money you borrow so spend that it leads to more growth. Yeah, I'd love to, but at the same time, you have to implement the necessary reforms, regardless of the loans. It is therefore primarily a question of labour market systems and pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u3	We are three minutes in the debate, I believe, and the Prime Minister is already using the word 'compromise'. So we already know he's going through the pump. But let's just say the principle. The Prime Minister says we must help those countries. I wonder: why do we have to help these countries? Why can't these countries help themselves? Help the Netherlands, I'd say. We have seen that the number of unemployed in the Netherlands has doubled. We have seen that the attack on people's purchasing power is about to become huge. People in the Netherlands are getting hit in their wallets. They're disappearing into welfare. Partners are losing their jobs. That's all gonna happen. Focus on that. Why do we need a recovery plan for countries that are either privately richer than the average Dutch or can go to the capital market themselves? It's possible. Italy can now borrow 1.5%, Spain can borrow 0.6%. That's all easy to handle. They can do it themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u4	Yes, but that is of course gone if you are not prepared to see from a spirit of compromise how to help countries in trouble. Those low interest rates that are now being recorded, of course, immediately disappear like snow before the sun to turn into hugely rising interest rates if that does not happen. Why? Because, of course, the markets also see that some countries are less competitive. So if you do what Mr Wilders wants and you withdraw from the discussion immediately with the remark "find it out, I won't do it at all," then the interest rates in those countries will rise so that they won't be able to solve it in that way. That is, of course, an inevitability. The second point is that there really is a difference of opinion here. Mr Wilders really thinks that I have just heard him say several times, including once again pleading for a new treaty that the Netherlands alone, seeking bilateral relations with other countries, is better off than when it is embedded in strong multilateral organisations such as the European Union and, I would add, NATO and the United Nations. But today we are talking about the European Union. I disagree with him. We are the seventeenth economy of the world. On such a small piece of land, with so many people, with so much prosperity and in such an unstable world, it is an illusion to think that we can manage without being embedded in strong multilateral organisations such as the European Union. Wilders and I are totally different about this geopolitical interest in an unstable world. That's okay, but I think the listener needs to understand the context. I really want to convince that listener that it would be a wrong choice if the Netherlands said: we're going to do this on our own. I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u5	I think that listener and perhaps also the viewer who is watching television now think I know what kind of channel this is broadcast on. Why is this Rutte going to talk about all these 750 billion, whether it's gifts or loans, to countries like Italy, where in the private sector things are often better economically than in the Netherlands, and why isn't he doing that for us, why isn't he working on our purchasing power, our jobs and our unemployment? I repeat the question, regardless of our differences as to whether or not we are members of the European Union. Italy, another example, raises far too little tax. Last week, the President of the Italian Central Bank himself said in an interview: 'What would help is if my country...... Italy would finally start to tax the huge black market that exists in Italy; that would help tremendously'. The support base in the Netherlands is, of course, zero if we are going to help the Italians, because they themselves do not levy taxes. Shouldn't the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u6	Yeah, I just said that in my introduction. I agree. Would you like to explain to myself, to Mr. Wilders, to the Netherlands that you are willing to participate in a movement towards aid, in any form whatsoever, to countries that are much weaker than the Netherlands, that is to say that those countries are doing everything they can to help themselves next time. And that is, of course, also tax collection. That's what I mentioned. It can't be that in Italy the informal economy, the black economy, has a size of "what's it? It's about 19%. That's not possible. So that's all part of it. If countries call for this, then I also believe that there should be strict conditionality, which includes all these reforms. What we disagree about is this. Even if Wilders and I were to talk to Italy and other countries and say to them "all these things you have to do," Wilders would still say at the end "I am against helping such a country." I'd say, "I'm willing to help, because next time you can help yourselves." And it is in the Dutch interest that we help them, because if we do not, Europe will become more unstable. It is already distorted in the European Union and it is already distorted in the currency union as regards economic developments and competitiveness. This is reflected in the risks of increasing spreads, for example in the market rates. This also has an impact on the extent to which Europe is able to build up a posture in the rest of the world. I just said that with the paradox: are you a player or are you a playing field? Europe is in danger of becoming a playing field and not being a player anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u7	The point of pain in this Prime Minister's reply is, of course, in the three words 'next time'. So what's he saying? 'I agree with Mr Wilders', but he does not agree with Mr Wilders at all. I wish. He says "we're gonna help now and then we're gonna say we're gonna have the next crisis..." Do you remember Greece, Madam President? None of that would ever happen again. Now we are dealing with Italy and other countries such as Spain, which have got into trouble because of their own fault. They took care of it themselves. Even the President of the central bank of Italy says: we made a mistake, we should have taxed the whole black market much earlier; if we had, we would have had much more money and we would have had less to hold on to. So you shouldn't say "next time." You must say: you have made a mess of things, you have celebrated without paying taxes. If you say, Prime Minister, 'we will do this next time', then you are right to say that the Italians have spent the last few years, over the past few decades, having spent their holidays, not paying taxes and maintaining the black economy, and that now the Dutch taxpayer, who is in a crisis, who often loses his job and loses his income, can pay. You shouldn't say "next time." You have to say "now," "you don't get it, because you've made a mess yourself."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u8	Yet again: to some extent I agree with that. If you look at countries in Europe that have gone through a major reorganisation, you will see that some countries have taken those decisions. I'm also looking at Portugal. I'm looking at Ireland. Those are countries that have gone through intense reform programmes. They are much more able than in the past to help themselves. They have previously implemented heavy reform programmes in exchange for support. To some extent this includes Greece. Greece, in particular, has experienced internal devaluation, of course, through a major austerity programme. I think that there could have been more reforms, but at least Greece has gone to hell and has suffered an internal devaluation of about 25%. There are also countries, of which Mr Wilders just mentioned, the third economy of the European Union, which are lagging behind. That's just true. That's what that country recognizes itself. The Prime Minister of that country, too, recognizes that, and is also now in the process of implementing reforms. Last week I also took a positive view of this and said that I would encourage it. I now also encourage the addition of reforms in the area of pensions and the labour market, as well as reforms of the legal system and, of course, reforms in the area of tax collection. But now comes the question, and that is actually the choice that lies ahead. Since these countries have not done so, we are not going to help now, with the risk of distortion and further destabilising Europe, which is not in our interests, not only because of the internal market, but also because of stability. If the answer to that is that you have to help now, then the question comes: do you do it without conditions; do you say "we help," period? Then I would agree with Wilders; we do not. We therefore need strict conditions to ensure that these countries will be able to help themselves next time, as a country such as Portugal or Ireland, Ireland fully, Portugal is much better able to cope with this crisis now. These are the fundamental, also strategic, questions that lie ahead. And in the end, of course, there is a view on what geopolitics, but also economically wise. And on that, I think, Mr Wilders and I differ in parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u9	No. Look, that black sector in Italy is estimated at over EUR 200 billion. And about those at least EUR 200 billion there are also stories and reports that that is more than 200 billion is paid year in, year out, year in, year out from no tax. Those are astronomical amounts. And you can't say, that's almost criminal... We'll tell someone in the Netherlands who cheated on welfare benefits: well, you can promise what you want for the next time, but you'll get a sanction now; you'll get no more benefits and maybe we'll even prosecute you. That's what we're saying to someone in the Netherlands who's cheating on benefits. And now there are those Italians, who have refused to tax hundreds of billions, and probably thousands of billions in recent decades, where the Dutchman had to pay taxes. And what do you say? Then you don't say: that's unacceptable, we're not going to do that, look at it; if that welfare mother in the Netherlands is being dealt with, then we're going to get you, too. No, you say: well, you know what, next time you promise not to do it again, we'll forget this and we'll ask the Dutchman to contribute. And whether those are gifts or loans, I say to the Prime Minister: borrowing Italy is about the same as a gift, because you will never see it again. But apart from that, it's unfair to that Dutchman, who has to pay now. And you say to the Italian: too bad, next time better. And that's unfair. You shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u10	I broadly agree with what Mr Wilders said. He's a preacher to the converted. If we were to say 'Italy is getting money, in exchange for the promise that they will ever collect tax again in the black part of the economy', then he is absolutely right; that would not be acceptable. That is why I also think it is a matter of solidarity that Europe should ask back from those countries which are lagging behind in reforms, that those reforms in the areas of pensions, the labour market, tax collection, the whole legal system, the protected professions should be implemented; that they are also conditional on whether or not they are willing to help with loans, and that they are also conditional on how you are going to pay out these loans. But what Mr Wilders is actually saying is: no, I am not going to handle this whole debate with Italy; they did not do this, so point, we are not going to do anything. And then my argument is: then you run two big risks. Firstly, Italy will still not make the necessary adjustments, nor will other countries. The second risk is that it will shift the relationship within the currency union, within the European Union, further increase the competitiveness of other parts of Europe and further decrease that part of Europe. And that is also a gift for all those of us who have referred to it, asscher and others, who are currently counting on Europe to take a position in the world in a number of major geopolitical issues, in a world that seems to be becoming more bipolar between China and America, with a Russia that is actually trying to play on all chessboards and seems to be able to do so successfully. So here are big interests in the game. So, once with Wilders: only in exchange for; and not a promise, but hard implemented and trancheed. But if you don't, then you run the other, very big risk. I think there's a difference of opinion there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u11	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u12	Yes, Mr President, finally, because I just don't get an answer to my question. I am not saying at all what the Prime Minister puts in my mouth: "You will get it provided that..." I say, "Don't." I don't agree with him at all. But apart from that, Madam President, I would like to say that Mr Rutte is now going to talk to Italy. He also does not do that with the Dutchman, the Dutchman who cheats with the welfare allowance. Or do you know, there are Dutch people listening who may have paid their taxes six months late. Or maybe even once, which is not good, they haven't paid the taxes. Then the Tax Administration doesn't say to these people as a government: "Let's discuss this with each other." Then they get a heavy sanction, and often rightly so. Then they'll get a sanction and they'll get no more benefits. They'll get a fine, and if things get out of hand, they'll have to go to court. That is not where you say: 'Let's start the debate'. It is now the Italians, who, for 200 billion, once again, have cheated on billions of dollars in taxes, because they have not levied taxes, and who, at the same time, keep their hands on us. Please respond to that, because that is what I am saying. That's unfair, and you shouldn't. If you do, you offend all those Dutch people who are allowed to take the fall.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u13	I just said I agree with Wilders' analysis. What else does he want? I have just said that this analysis then raises a question. That's how you deal with it. That's why you're saying we're not doing anything, period? And do you take the risk that the stability of the whole, of the association of the European Union, which is so in our interest, will be further weakened? Or are you saying that this is the demand we are making, with a number of others, by the way? It goes far beyond tax collection, it also concerns pensions, the labour market and other matters, where we want to see things happen. I should also like to express my pride in the republics which are involved in this on their own initiative, in exchange for the willingness to help. You're not naive about that either; of course, you'd prefer to do that in a truncated model, where you really look at whether the things are happening that are being imagined at the time in exchange for that support. If you don't, you run the risk of that change not coming. This type of country has not yet implemented these changes, other countries which had to accept support under pressure before, have not. The second effect will be that I think it is even more serious that an imbalance which has already existed in the European Union and which has, of course, been seriously weakening the European Union for years now, which threatens to create ever greater gaps, will only be exacerbated by this crisis. That's the risk we're taking. These are the geopolitical but also the European political issues that we need to answer. So I get the analysis, but then there's questions behind it that need to be answered. It's not that simple that you can stay with the analysis. I would like to make one more comment about the links in which we are looking for cooperation. Yes, that is indeed with a number of countries which are also, on average, reluctant to draw the wallet: Austria, Sweden, Denmark and Finland, which do not belong to that group but appear to have similar positions on many points. But we are in close contact with many more countries. I'm in close contact with the Washington Group. We regularly have video conferences with the prime ministers and presidents of Spain, Italy, France and Germany and with the European Commission and the European Council. The same with the Benelux countries, i.e. Luxembourg, Belgium, the Netherlands. There is intensive consultation with Eastern Europe. There are contacts with all kinds of Eastern European countries, because we see very different views in Europe in all kinds of different parts of what is before us. It is certainly not the case that this is four countries versus 23 countries. On the contrary, there is a great deal of criticism of the proposals in many parts. And it is therefore very important, in order to be able to adapt to the Dutch interest and the Dutch views, to have those contacts on that broad front. So that really goes far beyond just what's going to be called the "frugal four." That's just an introduction. Then I'll come to the questions that lie ahead. The first one I get to catch is about the needs assessment. Indeed, as has been pointed out by several speakers, we have doubts about this need assessment as it has been laid down, so that analysis of what is now the need to do things. We have asked for a comprehensive explanation from the Commission on this point. Yes, I say to those who have asked, Mr Bishop and others, there is also support for each Member State. It is lacking now, which makes it difficult to establish the link between how much is actually needed and what is going on in different Member States. Of course, you should also take into account the national measures taken by Member States themselves. Mr. Chairman. Then, of course, there was the question of how to ensure that the conditions for structural reforms were met. I have just answered that question briefly in the debate on the interruption with Mr Wilders. I think this can only be done through a system of tranche ring. This is in itself part of the Commission's proposal. But we are looking very critically at how we are going to work that out with each other. So it is one of many points on which there will be an intensive debate in the coming weeks and months. How does the package relate to the treaties? The basic rules of the Treaties are based on the idea that revenue and expenditure are placed on the Union budget and that they are financed from own resources. We believe that the proposals that are now being made do not in themselves go against the Treaties. The exception rules on the basic route chosen shall also be used. They must be well-motivated. The importance of temporaryity is part of this, I say to several speakers. That's crucial. It's a temporary measure, a temporary fund. That ends in 2024. By the way, we think it could be a little shorter than 2024. After all, that is four years of the new Multiannual Financial Framework, so we think it can be shorter. This also applies to the repayment period. It does not start until 2028; I thought Mr Omtzigt and others referred to it. We believe that this repayment period should start earlier and that it cannot go through to the Omtzigt XII cabinet either. Then there was the question: how do we look at the relationship between the MFF and the entire cabinet? Can I call it "MFF Old"? I am referring to the Chopinbiography/MFK discussion in February. In fact, our position has not changed. I think we had a reasonable position there, have and keep. We say: let us try, with all the inflation and corrections, to continue to pay the Union what we have to pay. Then, in the context of this crisis, you can see what you are willing to do extra. I think several speakers have also argued in favour of this. The framework "MFK classic" therefore includes a full rebate, because otherwise you come very difficult on not increasing our payment. Maybe I praise myself, but I think that there is growing awareness in Europe that this position is not even that crazy, especially in the light of what is being asked for now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u14	Were you finished answering this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u15	This one question is. I do have some questions about the package.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u16	I understand. Mr Omtzigt has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u17	This is a good line, but that need assessment is, of course, an absolut necessity. If you're taking out such a large amount of money, it'd be really weird if there's no need assessment. It is therefore a good thing that the government has asked for it. It's gonna be an intermediate. It's a video meeting, so it's also a bit uncomfortable; there's nothing cozy Brussels about it. After this summit, in a week or two, can we have an interim position as to whether there is a proper need assessment and how the re-examined programme is linked to the real needs that lie under corona? Because that link is indeed completely invisible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u18	Yeah, I think I can promise that. In any case, we will come up with a report from the European Council after Friday, so let me take it into account. I cannot, of course, promise that the Commission will do what we want. But at least it's our bet, so I can at least give an update of where we stand or when we think we know where we stand; that can be done anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u19	I have said exactly what I want in that; that is what I expect in it. If the Commission is unable to give it, can you not go to the CPB or to someone else or say with a number of other countries: then we are going to see for ourselves where this need is high? If you want to spend this kind of money, there's got to be a proper analysis underneath that, right? You can just demand it from the Commission, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yes, I do, but I can't promise you that that will happen now. I suspect there is a feeling that this must be done, but I cannot make firm commitments about it now. So the relapse, what do we do if we can't? I would also like to take a look at this. I understand that the question refers to the CPB, but I assume that the Commission is doing so. I think that's inevitable. There are a lot of other Member States that are asking for this, not just the Netherlands. This goes far beyond the frugal four, which say: what is really needed is to be visible to each Member State. In the current scheme, for example, the third benefit of the programme is Poland. This seems to have an economic krip of just over 4% and seems to recover from it in one year. Of course, that raises questions. I'm sure it'll be very well thought out, but how is that possible? You might want to ask that question. Hungary scores well and doesn't seem to have been hit so hard by this pandemic either. Of course, this has an impact on the economy; of course. So we all want to get a good look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u21	I am glad that we are getting that before the decision-making takes place, so that we know if that link is present according to the Dutch Government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u22	I think there should be one. That's what we really agreed on. I cannot now promise the Commission that it will also carry out our wish, because I simply do not know that now. I have good hope of that, but I have no certainty about it. I also understand why Omtzigt says "you should also think about: how do you do it, if you didn't get it from the Commission?"
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u23	It matters to me that it's there. I usually have the experience, including with this cabinet, that, if you offer an alternative that they don't like, it's that you're going to calculate it with four Member States themselves, and they're going to be able to calculate it a little bit more. So I would just put that on the table and say: we have a good Central Planning Office. There is no doubt that the Danes and Sweden have such an institution; I can point them out in this way. Go to the Swedish Rikbanken, they will help you. Then they will come up with calculations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u24	I suspect Mr. Omtzigt has found a route that can work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u26	But let me leave it uncommented for a moment, otherwise it will again seem as if I am saying to the Commission: if you do not do so, I will do so. So I hear what Mr Omtzigt says and it also inspires me in my thinking about the alternatives. But I do not want to nail it down here, because I continue to hope that the Commission will also see the need. The question then is whether the money also ends up in the real economy, with companies and households. You can now see that this fund, as well as the MFF and the eurogroup package of 540 billion just before Easter, has many different instruments with many different target groups. This recovery fund is aimed at investing in growth potential, coupled with reforms. For example, you talk about infrastructure and education. This is in the interests of businesses and households, but there are also many instruments aimed at direct support for SMEs, for example through the European Investment Bank. Think of the solvency instrument and the pan-European guarantee fund. So it's over a very broad front. The question was also: what about the green transition? We support the Commission's intention to support the green and digital transition through the recovery package. Timmermans and Vestager: one green and the other digital. The two most important Vice-Presidents have also been given the strongest priorities of the new Commission programme. Because we support this choice from the point of view of content, we must also see to a large extent its effects. The positive thing is that the Commission takes the "do no harm" principle as its starting point. This means that investments should at least not harm the goals of the Green Deal. This is assessed by legislative proposal. In addition, the cabinet's commitment is that investments of at least 25% benefit the climate and the goals of the Green Deal, both for the regular MFF and for the recovery package. That's the mainstreaming, you might say, that's in the MFK. So I think that's a common objective. Then there is the new own resources. That is actually a bit of a crazy discussion, because the Commission refers to it, but it does not work out. Now, if you ask me, I'm just giving an assessment, and I'm saying that this will land on up to two new own resources that are acceptable to the Netherlands, i.e. payments based on unrecycled plastic waste and the ETS revenues from the existing slabs. I brought that in on behalf of the Netherlands in February with many other countries that are willing to do so. It is also beneficial for the Netherlands. They are also well in line with the climate objectives that are widely considered important in the Chamber and also by the coalition. There are currently no proposals on the table for such things as digitalaks or the carbon border adjustment mechanism. There's nothing there. There is a more general statement by the President of the Commission, who says: we should look at that. If these proposals are made, we will assess them. Of course, the Netherlands is reluctant in general terms. That would be such a "general sentence" sentence. In the past, the Netherlands has turned against ideas that exist here and there about a CCCTB. We have said about some other taxes: let's see how you could get out of them in the OECD context. Those discussions are ongoing, too. I can now go through all that capita selecta of imaginable own resources and make my comments on everything, but I suspect politically that, before that, most of it has been shot off by others. On the sieve you can still see that recycled plastic, anyway, and maybe ETS. In my opinion, all these other things have already been shot out of the water by others, but there are no proposals yet. If there are any, we will comment on them. But now it's a bit of a scientific discussion, because there's nothing there. I also think that this political force field is not going to work out in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u27	Can I conclude, then, that if there are more proposals for own resources, the Dutch cabinet will at least assess the following two criteria? One: does it contribute to the sustainability and digitisation of the European economy? Two: does it prevent a higher contribution from the national Member States? If these two conditions are met, the Cabinet is therefore prepared to look openly at proposals for own resources other than ETS and plastic.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u28	That would be taking over the D66 election programme. I think that goes a little too far, because we have the GNI key as our starting point. Because it ultimately provides the most pure basis for the payments to the European Union association. It is not the case that one's own resource is a good resource if it leads to more greening or more digitization. We are in favour of greening and digitisation, but not through that instrument. At least it's not a contra-indication. Of course, it helps, but what you want to look at, of course, is whether this fits in with the way the Union is financed. Are you avoiding a Hamilton moment, just to call it that? This means transferring too much fiscal competence to the European Union, taking a step towards federalisation that we do not consider desirable. We want a union of sovereign Member States working together. Hence the own resources decision to be adopted in all national parliaments. That is also the most important dam against such a Hamilton moment. Furthermore, you have to look at it pragmatically. From this pragmatic point of view, we have said that the plastic waste state and the ETS yield are fine, but they already seem to have raised objections in Germany and other countries. To be honest, I do not see any more of this than fine discussions with Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u29	Of course, it would also be too good to be true if the Prime Minister were to take over the entire D66 election programme. That may take a little longer than just this debate, but I believe that the crux is 'to look at it pragmatically'. They are also indirect European taxes. The national Member States therefore have a role to play in the recovery process, but it is being transferred to the Commission in favour of sensible spending. In this debate, I believe we have also noted that MFF and a European emergency fund are a much larger amount than we thought at the start of the negotiations on the MFF because of this major corona crisis. If the Netherlands and other Member States then insist on 1% and on not increasing their national payments, we will also have to look creatively at other means. So that's what I'm giving the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u30	I'm listening to that with attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u31	I just want to make it clear what the Prime Minister's actually saying. If I listen to him carefully, he actually says that the use of ETS revenues and also the tax on non-recyclable plastic is okay with him and that he would be okay with it, because that fits Dutch policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u32	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u33	But he assumes that other countries will shoot this off. Is that what he's saying?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u34	Not these two. My impression from the February negotiations was that plastic would eventually remain on the screen there. I suspect that, after some armprints with the Germans, that might also apply to the ETS plaque. At least it was rejected from Germany at the time and also from a few other countries, but I think that was still possible. The Netherlands found them both attractive, because it provides our money and fits in with our greening situation. But now you hear a broader discussion about digitalaks, a carbon board adjustment mechanism et cetera. There are no proposals for that. My suspicion, based on the European force field, is that, before the Netherlands came to a final weighing in a dialogue with Parliament in all purity, other Member States that have already shot swan out of the water.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u35	It is good to hear that with regard to those two specific proposals. This means a change in relation to the discussion we had last week with Minister Blok, also in connection with the appreciation. It also stated that the cabinet felt that they were moving in the right direction, but that for a number of reasons it was transparency and I do not know anything about it. Now I hear the Prime Minister say: we will actively support the proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u36	I supported two proposals in February, following the debate with Parliament: plastic waste and ETS revenues. These proposals support the Netherlands. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u37	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u38	But that's not new: that was in February. The question of democratic legitimacy has been asked. Of course, the European Parliament is also in the process of doing so. They must adopt a Multiannual Financial Framework. For the sectoral programmes, they are co-legislators. The same applies to the recovery facility. In addition, the Commission has proposed an interinstitutional agreement between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament to organise further transparency and dialogue with the European Parliament. The financing of the package naturally requires national ratification of the new own resources decision. This also shows the national parliaments. I note that, with a large part of the Chamber, we are in favour of linking the receipt of European subsidies to compliance with the rule of law, rule of law or law-conditionality. For the Netherlands, this is inextricably linked to the modern EU budget. We therefore continue to work for an effective rule of law conditionality. That is also in line with the recent Van der Graaf c.s motion. We welcome the fact that, in the proposed package, the Commission reiterates the importance of the rule of law. On this basis, we therefore believe that it is possible to address shortcomings in the rule of law, where they have a potentially negative impact on the financial interests of the European Union. One of the reasons why we look critically at the development of the instrument is whether you leave it entirely to the Commission, whether you want to have a far-reaching role for the national Member States, the European Council or Ecofin, or at least to have elements of unanimity in the discussion throughout the process, is because there is also concern. As far as the principles of law are concerned, we have to say that it is often confessed, certainly very actively by our own Commissioner, Frans Timmermans. He has drawn on this, but he has stumbled a few times on the shores of the ability in Europe to fetch things. Things have been named, haven't they? Then we can move on! He's right to be annoyed by that, and so am I. With that, there is no guarantee that it will all be settled tomorrow. I think we can agree on the importance. For me and the cabinet, it is an inspiration to ensure that we look much more closely at those elements of unanimity that are needed in the recovery instrument in order to prevent things from being exchanged politically in an overly cozy conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u39	It is quite right that the Prime Minister should pay so much attention to the importance of the rule of law in Europe, because it is under pressure. In a number of Member States, we have not succeeded sufficiently in responding to this in recent years. The Prime Minister mentioned the inability in Europe to act effectively. Does he agree with me that this inability was mainly with the Heads of Government who failed to give Hungary, among other things, a slap on the wrist? Would it not be wise to allow the European Commission to operate as a really heavy referee on the ground, so that we can actually cut down countries that are breaking the rule of law and that cannot be blocked by individual Member States?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u40	Yeah, but that's where the complicated stuff is, of course. If you leave it entirely to the Commission, there is also a risk of political exchange. If you leave Member States on a stronger footing, you have to look very closely at how to use the unanimity instrument, because it can also work in the other direction. I honestly do not have the answer to that. So far, I haven't been able to put a brilliant find in there. We really need to think about this further. But if what has been said here is true, I have not yet been able to control it myself, because parts of Poland declare themselves gay-free, then it becomes even more complicated that they are the third country that is going to be favoured by this fund. That makes it all very indigestible. Anyway, that's just a remark in the margin.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u41	You want to take action against the rule of law in Hungary, the police force in Malta and the homo-free zones in Poland in order to force these countries to respect the rule of law. I do welcome the Prime Minister's honest answer that he is still searching. How do you ensure that you can effectively act against that? What role do you give to the Commission? What role do you give Member States? But avoid this unanimity, because it will always be impossible. My second question to the Prime Minister on this point is: how fast is the cabinet going to play when it comes to conditionality with regard to the rule of law? Are we going to play that as hard as the demand for countries in southern Europe to reform in exchange for economic support in this corona crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u42	I think that is a quest, because if you do that just as hard, I will say with the risk that this is a public debate, and at the same time we think that Eastern Europe is too good now, but perhaps in subsequent settings it will not come out so well, then there is less importance to move on this point. While southern Europe probably has very important interests to go along with a number of cabinet considerations in the end. So also on this is the honest answer that I really think it's still a search for how you're going to connect those things to each other. Look, of course I can all make firm statements here, but just like I'm asking, "Are you going to use your veto?" It is also true that there must be a compromise in the end. However, I believe that you see the almost physical objection I have to send both money to southern Europe without reform, and money to eastern Europe without the rule of law being in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u43	Above all, let us not talk about veto and veto in this Chamber, because that does not help at all in the negotiations that need to be conducted in the coming period. In his introduction, the Prime Minister said very nice words: Europe should not be a playing field but a player; we should look at geopolitical and economic interests at this time of crisis. I would like to add that Europe also distinguishes itself from China and the US by the fact that we share fundamental freedoms, which are unique in this world, both here and in the prosperous world, and share standards and values. And they are really worth protecting, which is why I call on the Prime Minister to put the conditionality of the rule of law at the top of his priority list in these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u44	Yes. But if you see what is happening recently in Poland and Hungary, then the story that Mr Jetten just keeps and that I fully subscribe to is subject to some erosion if you pass it on to other parts of the world. And that, of course, is exactly why we are very concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u45	I still have the feeling that we haven't quite got the answer we asked. Is it at the top? Is it gonna be a part? Is it as important as knowing, for example, what investments should be made and conditionality in the economic field? Or is it a little bit attached?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u46	No, it is at the top of my list and I must also say that the Commission proposal is fine. Look, the tricky thing is... this is easy scoring. In the end, I can send a proper letter after the negotiations: I will probably get what the Chamber wants on this point, because that Commission proposal is actually what we all want. However, the honest answer to Mrs Leijten is that it will be interesting what happens in the months and years thereafter with the application of these instruments. That is where my concern lies, because it has been shown in practice that things can become blurred again, that a Commissioner such as Frans Timmermans can be fully committed to this, but sometimes others in the European Commission, the highest executive body of the European Union, can be thwarted. That's a fact, too. So that's the honest answer. Yeah, once. So the answer to Mrs Leijten's question is yes. Are you gonna pull it in? I think so, because it is now in the Commission's proposals. I don't see that being watered down. We could, but then we're gonna try to avoid that. But the proof of the pudding is in the eating and in the past that pudding has had a rather faint taste.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u47	With that, the Prime Minister says nothing new, but actually something very shocking. You think that there are conditions for funding and they relate to human rights, to the rule of law, which should be one of the core values of European cooperation. Yeah, we'll talk about that, but in the execution it's not really that important anymore. That's a problem, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u48	You didn't hear me say that. On the contrary, I fully agree that the implementation is very important, but I am also honest. Where we can't decide that on our own, you can sometimes see that in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u49	Yeah, exactly. And we all know that, and we all see that, and we ask questions about that, and we may agree with each other. However, I find it worrying that you are therefore directing the money and imposing conditions on human rights and democracy in any case, but that this is simply a step forward in the implementation process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u50	But if you were to try to look at the European Union a little bit gloomy. Look at the solidarity in the European Union in the corona crisis: masks and other things. I am talking about the western part of the European Union, not yet Poland and Hungary, only the founding fathers of the Union among themselves. Look what we've seen there and what we've seen a little longer in Hungary and Poland, that's not a nice picture. Okay, no, not good. Then, Mr President, on the question of the transfer of sovereignty. I really believe that the Commission's proposal is not a transfer of sovereignty. The Member States will make the investments and reforms themselves. In the end, Article 5 of the Treaty applies here. At the same time, it is very important that we can really ensure that what has been agreed is done. That's what I just talked about. Those elements of unanimity that will be necessary. Will the Netherlands make use of it? Yeah, that depends entirely on the effect that comes. We must also assess whether it is attractive to use it. That's what we're gonna see in practice when the time comes. Well, that's not really possible at the moment. The Central Planning Office is asking for a review of the quality of the Commission's economic model. However, there has been contact with the CPB on the assessment of the Commission's models. They can test this justification, but the problem is likely to be the capacity of the CPB to do so in the short term. They also have all the credit transfers for Princess Day and the election programs. Having checked this, it now seems that the capacity for this is lacking. I am sympathetic to it, but it seems to be more of a practical complication at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u51	A practical complication can also be practically solved. These are big plans, it's about billions. It might be worth a lot if you let a few people test this. I would say: attract additional people to test it and do so permanently, because there is a lot coming from the European Commission that needs to be tested, as the evaluations I mentioned. Then we have our own knowledge club, the European Union, like the British in the past, and we can not only say no, but also well underpin what the counter-proposal is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u52	Yeah, once. We're gonna go to the CPB again and see what we can do. I don't know if you're just looking... I agree, we're gonna find out. My first reaction was that it really became a problem. They're working really hard on all the credit transfers right now. I can't make a hard commitment right now. I don't want to make a promise that we can't make.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u53	I'm sure we'll get a report from the upcoming European summit...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u54	I'll take it into account. That's a good one. I'll admit we'll update on that or we can.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u55	I would very much like that, too. In particular, the fact that expenditure is now included, but not refunds. That's always fun in an economic model: you make sure you spend hundreds of billions as loans and then shift the refund to a later period and don't include it in the model. Perhaps the Prime Minister could ask the CPB to put that in the model and see if there is so much fun in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u56	Yes. I can't get over it for a while, but of course the question can be answered. If the CPB then has that capacity, because that was Mr Mulder's question. We're gonna take a look at that. Then the Netherlands does receive European infrastructure funding from CEF, Connecting Europe Facility. Over EUR 500 million has been committed in the last year for the implementation of 85 projects in which they are involved. In several cases, Dutch parties form part of international consortia, for example in the investments in the railway connections Botlekgebied, Schiphol and the Amsterdam Port Area. Then there was the question about REACT-EU. The cabinet will soon send another BNC sheet to the Chamber for this. We consider it important that cohesion policy should continue to focus on long-term structural reforms and investment in innovation, reimbursement and digitisation, where I have just discussed the link with the rule of law. In this sense, we are more critical of the flexibility introduced in the proposal. I believe that Mr Bishop is in the same position, and his body language is sympathetic. The Netherlands sees a role for the Commission to ensure the focus on structural reforms and investments in innovation, remuneration, digitalisation and employment as well as the pillar of social rights. It should not therefore set a precedent for the rules that will apply to the new programmes for the period 2021-2027, but, again, we will present a more detailed analysis in a BNC sheet. Then the thought of a bath couch. Questioning shows that there are no plans at the ECB for setting up a bath bank, but if Mr Omtzigt has any other information, I would like to hear it. I checked. If the ECB does present a proposal to this effect, we will of course immediately inform the Court of Justice about it, but there seems to be no plans now. There's no plans, I'm even called in. Of course, as Mr Omtzigt has already implied, the possibilities for public bath banks have been limited by the state aid rules and the resolution framework for banks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u57	Have you answered all Mr Omtzigt's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u58	That's impossible, but I'm a long way. This was the answer to the question about bath banks. It's been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u59	Mr. Omtzigt.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u60	In itself this was a very nice answer, but Reuters never accidentally writes this kind of thing when they are working on it internally. Then someone inside is planning a bath bank. I understand that there are no official plans, but I would like to ask the Prime Minister to check that again, either with the ECB or with De Nederlandsche Bank, and also to point out that there is a resolution mechanism and no reason for a bath bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u61	Yes. I'll check it again. I promise. Then I answered the questions about the recovery fund. Then I'll come to Brexit, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mrs Leijten on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u63	Is this the answer to everything surrounding the ECB?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u64	Were there any more questions about the ECB? I only saw this one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u65	Well, I had a question about that debt buy-back by, for example, the ECB with multinationals who then pay dividends directly to their shareholders. That's not what this buy-out is for. It's meant to get more money into the economy. This means more money in the savings account of the hyper-rich in our world. I asked what we're gonna do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u66	Yes, you asked. I didn't have him answered, so I'm gonna try to do that in second term. Gentlemen and ladies officials, you have heard, I hope. This one would like to be included in the set for the second round.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u67	I have one technical question. That is also possible in the second term. That fund that will be on top of it, that whole extra package that is being proposed now, could be put in place separately, so that if no deal is reached by mistake around 2028, then the relapse option is that the old MFF will remain in place, but not with the corona fund on top of it. This sounds very stupid, but the negotiating position of the Netherlands is extremely weak if that corona fund stays on in the current methodology. If you were to veto it, the rest of Europe would say that we would go further with such a fund and we would do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u68	You're saying the risk is you're gonna let him go through a reverse veto.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u69	Yeah, well, that's the risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u70	I get it. I'm asking for official advice on that. I used to see the officials nodding yes or no, but now they're not in the room. Then we get the Brexit. No decisions are expected now. It is likely that Michel, the chairman, will report on progress in the negotiations. Full support for Mr Barnier and his team. I thought it was pronounced here, too. The EU mandate is clear. It is important that we now preserve the peace and unity. We welcome in itself the intensification of the negotiations that became apparent yesterday. Hopefully we'll get what we need as soon as possible. Then there's the fishing. Yes, that is a key interest of the Netherlands and the European Union in the negotiations. That is also mentioned in the coalition agreement. From this moment on, we have fought for this interest with the other Member States. We are committed to a fisheries agreement as part of the economic relationship based on historical fishing and fishing rights. A package approach in the negotiations is the best way to achieve the best possible result, including fisheries. In our view, the EU mandate also provides the right basis for a strong Dutch commitment. Preparations are currently in full swing. Reference was made to Mr Blok, who would have said that we will do so after the summer. That's not true. He said at the AA meeting of 10 June on the General Affairs Council that he would provide further information on the preparations by the end of the summer recess. That overview must be drawn up in a precise manner, and this requires coordination with all ministries. That's why he promised. But those preparations have, of course, begun. We have identified the measures needed to be as well prepared as possible for the end of the transitional period. This concerns communication, policy preparation and so on. Of course, a great deal had already started in the previous phase, when measures on containment and preparation have been prepared. And things will change anyway, because the UK is now leaving the customs union and the internal market. That is why we have called on everyone to use the next six months to prepare for the new relationship as well as possible. I'll make that call here again. In doing so, all parties, of course the government, but also companies, institutions and citizens, have their own responsibility. We help where we can with information. The Dutch customs and other services have now been prepared. Independent of the outcome of the negotiations, additional customs officers will be required for border formalities. Of these, 930 have been recruited. They are now sufficiently trained and employable. The IT systems have also been adapted and the accommodation is in order. It is indeed important that other Member States are prepared for this. We are in contact with the Commission and other Member States, such as Belgium and France. And of course you also want to prevent all kinds of trucks from Poland or Germany from coming here that do not meet all the requirements and then have to come here. So, figuratively, that's what we're all trying to hold at gunpoint. That's that. There has been talk of links with British industry. I agree with what has been said. I think it's a little complicated to build a relationship from the Dutch government itself with the Confederation of British Industry. Of course, that runs through the VNO. VNO-NCW has those contacts. The trade union movement also has its contacts, of course, with the Trades Union Congress. We are very careful to ensure that these contacts are there. From July onwards, information will also be stepped up, including, of course, customs. And so, from July 73,000 Dutch companies trading with the UK will be informed, also in writing, about what needs to be done. This is primarily aimed at Dutch companies and not at British companies, but once again, we see the importance of contacts with Great Britain, including with the business community there. The answer to the question of whether we are committed to tough agreements between the EU and England on preventing unfair competition is: yes. Agreements to protect the level playing field are crucial for the Netherlands and the European Union. The motion by Lodewijk Asscher was adopted earlier on this. It was about preventing a race to the bottom. So that's what we're holding on to. Ensuring a level playing field is necessary to prevent unfair competition and to protect the internal market, but also humans, animals, plants and the environment. To this end, agreements are also made in all these areas: social security, labour, state aid, taxation, climate, competition. A level playing field must therefore be created. It is a large economy, close to the European Union, so that link is really essential. At the same time, we see in the negotiations that this is precisely the problem. It really takes movement from London to achieve that ambitious treaty that we all want, and this is very important to us. The planning of the approval procedure within the European Member States can only be decided later when we know when it is finished. This also depends on the content of what will hopefully be on the table, but also on the distribution of powers, then against the content, between the EU and the Member States. In the Commission's mandate to conduct negotiations with the UK, the Council and the Member States adopted a declaration confirming that the legal nature and form of the agreement will only be determined at that later stage, so we know exactly what it is. The intention of the entire cabinet is to inform the Chamber as well as possible and to keep it involved in the course of the negotiations. Is there still a need for separate tax arrangements? There is a tax treaty between the Netherlands and the UK from 2014. That stays in place even after Brexit. This avoids situations where double taxation is paid or even no tax at all. So far, there has been no need to adapt this in the Brexit negotiations. Parts of the European Union's talks with the United Kingdom focus on the fact that the UK naturally continues to comply with the OECD tax directives. Then the windfall tax. We are reluctant to do so. It is clear, of course, that Brexit is generally bad for companies. Additional corporate profits are not necessarily to be expected. In addition, of course, we already have taxes to tax profits from companies. In the Netherlands this goes through our own tax system. We believe that such a specific tax will also not encourage companies to come to the Netherlands. That's what's happening now, on a reasonable scale. These companies also create additional jobs in our country. If a windfall tax has to charge extra corporate profits as a result of brexit, then there is also a real problem in implementation. It is extremely complex to then determine exactly what is causing these additional profits. This will be more of a general tax, which, we believe, will counteract the coming of these companies to the Netherlands. The Brexit thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u71	Thank you for confirming that Customs is ready, because that is probably by far the most important service in the Netherlands to prepare for by far the most. Of course, the Royal Marechaussee and the IND will also receive additional work, but we cannot get Customs in order within three months. Thank you for that clear commitment. I had one more question about the companies. The Prime Minister says here: "I call on all companies from here too." Now there are people who work so hard that they're not following this whole debate live. Whether the Brexit monster should be taken out of the closet again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u72	I hear it's coming back.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u73	Does it seem like it's coming back?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u74	I checked this morning. It's dusted off again, or sucked off, because of course it's dusty.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u75	He's pretty dusty. The British media were already waiting for him. But is there going to be general information for companies which are not currently dealing with customs formalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u76	Oh, I'm gonna double-check that. There's a lot of information, I'm being reported. But I do not have that very specific for companies that do not have to do with Customs.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u77	There are a lot of companies in the Netherlands that only export to Germany, England and France. They've never had to fill out a customs form. That's the fun part about us being in that customs union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u79	Because the United Kingdom is one of our main trading partners, those are the companies that are most vulnerable. They just don't know how to handle it. If all these companies are going to fill out a form on 15 December, we are going to overload Customs. I would like to know about these companies if they are all prepared so that we do not have any problems there in January. This can also be found in the August progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u80	I admit that we will at least include them in the August progress report. Is that enough, or do you want in second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u81	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u82	Then we'll take it with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u83	The Prime Minister was very brief about Dutch fishermen. Can I just hear an explicit statement, namely that he will make an extraordinary effort to ensure that the trade agreement with the UK, if any, will include a fisheries agreement on access to each other's waters?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u84	Sure. I meant that just... As far as fisheries are concerned, I had the longest answer from the UK. It's a core interest. That was also mentioned in the coalition agreement. From the moment one, and so will I, we are committed to this with other Member States, as part of an economic relationship, on the basis of historical fishing rights and fishing rights. This has also been confirmed in a discussion between Barnier and the fisheries ministers most concerned. We have good contact with Barnier and the countries with major interests in the fisheries sector on this issue. We're really keeping a close eye on it. So the answer is yes, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u85	Thank you very much. The fishermen are watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u86	Two more questions, Mr President, one on the vaccine alliance. How'd this go? It is very important that the Netherlands, that Europe, that the European countries quickly have the vaccine at their disposal, and that we do not get the situation that the rest of the world is cuddling again, by being too slow between the Member States and the Union, while we are still here with mouth caps at 1.5 metres apart. That is why Hugo de Jonge contacted Jens Spahn and his colleagues in France and Italy at some point. This has led to a very nice initiative to jointly sign up for one or perhaps more promising vaccination programmes. Around the world there are about a hundred of them, I think, most of them aren't so promising and a limited number are. The good news today is that the Commission is embracing it and saying that it is doing a great job; that is helping us and we are taking it from here. It is really open to all Member States. We also take Africa into account in the programme. We have said to each other that we must in any way ensure that African countries also have access to vaccination programmes. The one on that subject. The initiative of those four seemed to cause some irritation. "May we, too?', Asked the Belgians. "Yes, you too, everyone can join." If you want in, you're in. It's open to everyone. It was really an inclusive initiative. But sometimes, in the European Union, you have to push the pedals with a few Member States. It's gonna speed things up a little bit. With the masks, we saw how it could be done, and we didn't want to do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u87	I understand. I also understand the dilemma that you want to be there soon but also want to hang out with all of us. Sometimes it takes more time. I thought the irritation was also in it that the initiative of those four was dealt with immediately. If I understand correctly, the European Commission said: let us first negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry on exactly what this vaccine should cost. I myself had the impression that this was perhaps one of the reasons why the Commission was not very enthusiastic about the action of those four, who immediately bought 300 million vaccines. Maybe the Prime Minister can clear that up.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u88	That was also exactly the goal, not to wait any longer and buy them, otherwise the other has them. Again, we also look after Africa, but not the rich world for a moment. He'll have to take care of it himself. That was, of course, the idea. Otherwise, you run the risk of coming after him. Of course, we saw how great solidarity worked in Europe in March/April. So that's what we were a little worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u89	I know this didn't work out well in April. If you want to ensure that you get a reasonable price and you also want to live up to your intention to make that vaccine available worldwide, including for people who are not purchasing power, then it is very important that you negotiate with the pharmaceutical industry about the price you are going to pay. That may be at odds with the idea that countries that are very rich say: just give me 300 million. Right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u90	But then you don't know Hugo de Jonge. He negotiates tightly, just like Jens Spahn and the others.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u91	I have to believe that, because when we ask what the Netherlands has paid for it, the same minister says: I am not going to say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u92	Yeah, it's not free. We'll probably have a lot of vaccines lying on a shelf in a minute and think, "Oh, that's not necessary at all." Yeah, that's right. By the way, there is no vaccine at all. That was also the risk, that all kinds of people thought "hi, by the end of the year everything is back to normal." There's nothing yet. There are more promising programs, and of course you want to sign in.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u93	Are you going to continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u94	Finally, Apollo Vredestein. The cabinet follows that very closely. I had the opportunity this morning to have a brief meeting with Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten with members of the works council of this beautiful company Vredestein, now known as Apollo Vredestein. Eric Wiebes is, of course, first on the buttons from the cabinet. Or, by the buttons, at least he's following it, because we don't have all the buttons in our hands. The aim is to maintain as much employment as possible at the factory in Enschede and that the factory can continue to produce under that proud brand of Vredestein for a long time. There are good contacts with the province of Overijssel and the municipality of Enschede. There is extensive contact with the company at various levels. I can't say that this is gonna be okay. Nor can I say exactly where it is now, because then too much is being given away to the public. It's really complicated; I have to say that. Of course, we will help the company where possible and where necessary with the existing government instruments. At the moment, we are also jointly exploring what can be done there. Let me now turn to Hungarian State aid. It is the exclusive competence of the European Commission to review this. The Netherlands was not involved in this. The Hungarian Government has granted state aid for the construction of a plant. This has been reviewed and authorised by the European Commission. The European treaties do not now offer any opportunity to reverse this. Again, the contacts are intensive, and if necessary, I maintain them myself, so we are working really hard on that. But there are no guarantees, unfortunately. That is what I had to say to the representatives of the works council this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u95	Thank you. Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u96	One question. Maybe I didn't hear. Does the Prime Minister now rule out the possibility of subsidies in this recovery package, if it is balanced and there are clear conditions? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u97	Well, what I always do in this kind of negotiation is say what we want. We want loans. We do not want subsidies, we want loans. And then the question always comes up, "Do you shut this down?" And you're gonna use your veto?'. I always choose never to use those terms, words like "exclude" or "vetos." I'll tell you what we want. That's the positive angle, otherwise you're gonna put yourself in the middle of these negotiations. So the answer to that is that we say what we do want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u98	That's very wise. So the Prime Minister doesn't rule it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u99	Well, that's your conclusion, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u100	No, you're saying I'm not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u101	No, I'm saying I'm not saying anything. What I am saying is that I am telling you what the cabinet wants and that we are not saying anything about what we all have in our heads. So when you say "you don't rule it out," that's your conclusion. You cannot conclude that on the basis of my words.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u102	There's only a limited number of flavors on such a question. You can say "yes, I'm ruling it out," "no, I'm not ruling it out"...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u103	I'm not saying anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u104	... or, C, "I don't want to say it."
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u105	Yes. Then you can't say I'm ruling it out or not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u106	Yes, but that is a bit problematic in terms of providing information to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u107	This is five years working with Louis Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u108	I get those traumas...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u109	No, no, no, I enjoyed it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u110	...I think we'll both suffer from that in time. But it is important that we now know where we stand. I'd think it was wise. For me, the Prime Minister really does not have to say it here: yes, I think conditions are important, I think it should belong in a balanced package. But I think it would be wise not to say, at least, that I exclude it. That's also what the Prime Minister isn't doing here. He doesn't say "I'm ruling it out." So my conclusion is, entirely on my account, that he's not ruling it out. And he can always dispute that, but so far he's not ruling it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u111	I am glad to hear what Mr Asscher has in his head, but that really is entirely up to him.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u112	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u113	Mr. Chairman. That is indeed a good summary of what Mr Rutte just said: he is not ruling it out. In fact, he said in an interruption of mine in the first term that he is seeking the compromise. And then we know what will happen if Mr Rutte seeks the compromise: then hundreds of billions in a recovery fund go to countries like Italy, where the private sector, once again, is many times richer than in the Netherlands. And what does Mr Rutte then say when it comes to the fact that Italy, the private sector, is richer, and that they do not have to levy taxes? And then he says, "Well, you know what, if you don't do that next time and you promise, we're gonna give you a bucket of money right now." And whether those are gifts or loans, it's gonna be a bucket of money. And that's unbelievable, because that Dutch taxpayer who pays his taxes three minutes late or swindles things up, he doesn't get a good talk, he doesn't get money, but he gets a fine, and if he can, this Prime Minister will send him to jail. In other words, a recovery fund is a very bad idea, especially at a time of crisis here in the Netherlands. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to veto the creation of a European Recovery Fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1545]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u114	The same applies to European taxes: they should not be used either. Hence: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to veto the introduction of European taxes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1546]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u115	The same applies to an increase in the MFF, that European budget. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to veto an increase in the MFF for the period from 2021 to 2027,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1547]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u116	And finally, chairman, the motion of motions, and the most beautiful motion of the day, week, month, perhaps the year. We hope that moment will come someday. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government at the forthcoming European summit to announce the Dutch departure from the EU, a nexit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1548]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u117	Mr Van Ojik, on behalf of GroenLinks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Wilders claims that he has tabled the most beautiful motion of the day, but he has not yet heard it from me. So in that respect, I would ask him to wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u119	Until now!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u120	Oh, until this moment. That could just happen, because other motions weren't there yet. Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the Prime Minister. I understand that there is still a lot going on and that it is still very difficult to say what kind of final package is finally on the table. I think I have come to the conclusion from this discussion and this debate that there are not very large unfinished dogmas. Because you can say: yes, we believe that the package, the proposal that is being made, has not yet been sufficiently substantiated. Perhaps you can think differently about that, but at least, depending on that justification, it is quite conceivable that the amounts ultimately involved in the European Recovery Fund plus the MFF are no longer as carved in marble as they were before. I think that's a good thing. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, which I'm going to read very quickly. The first concerns conditions for the green transition to the recovery fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the EU is to be climate neutral by 2050;]] [[noting that various activities related to fossil fuels are excluded, for example, in the InvestEU programme;]] [[noting that such exclusion is still lacking in the proposed recovery programme;]] [[considers that EU recovery funds should not contain fossil subsidies;]] [[calls on the Government to work at EU level to ensure that funds from future recovery programmes are not spent on economic activities related to fossil fuels,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1549]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u121	My second motion is about the vaccine anyway. I am pleased that the Prime Minister has said that he will be committed to making this available to less wealthy people in Africa, but it is not self-evident. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Netherlands, together with France, Italy and Germany, has established an "inclusive vaccination alliance" to have a first quantity of vaccines against the coronavirus available by the end of 2020;]] [[noting that the European Commission is to negotiate on behalf of the Member States to ensure that Member States have a vaccine against corona as soon as possible and at a reasonable price;]] [[calls on the government to work in the alliance and at EU level to ensure that a vaccine is available to all in developing countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Ojik, Mr Asscher, Mr Jetten, Mr Leijten and Mr Bruins.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1550]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u122	Thank you. Mr Jetten has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u123	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister took a constructive tone today, taking the time to explain the importance of European cooperation and to build support in this way rather than waiting for support. He mentioned that Europe should be a player, not a playing field, and that we should do what is geopolitically and economically important. I am pleased that the cabinet shares D66's view that support for hard hit Member States is necessary both for the Netherlands and for a strong EU. The Prime Minister now finds European plastic and ETS taxation attractive and does not exclude subsidies, apart from loans. I think that's wise. I also hope that he will endeavour to reach an agreement quickly with his colleagues, because a rapid recovery in the European economy is in the interests of the Netherlands, the Dutch economy and the Dutch entrepreneurs. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to commit himself to the following points in the next week's negotiations. A comprehensive, temporary and targeted recovery fund with clear commitments on structural reforms; the linking of conditions to the granting of grants and loans from the Recovery Fund; a heavily modernised budget focusing on greening and digital opportunities; a fair allocation of an emergency fund leading to economic contraction and sustainable recovery; a strong link with the rule of law, with an open mind to continue looking at new own resources. And certainly the rule of law. Indeed, it is important to continue to defend and strengthen the economic strength of Europe and the internal market. But Europe is more than just a single market. Europe is also a community of values, and those Member States that undermine the rule of law need to be addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u124	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u125	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that we can only emerge from the crisis together in Europe;]] [[Whereas financial support to countries heavily affected is necessary for the European recovery and should be subject to strict conditions;]] [[points out that a rapid European recovery does not require financial aid to consist exclusively of loans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Van Ojik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1551]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u126	The Prime Minister recognizes this little support for his position. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that the account of the European Recovery Fund should be distributed fairly;]] [[noting that the European Commission has proposed a European tech tax, so that large tech companies also contribute;]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of a European tech tax as a serious option and not to reject it in advance,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1552]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u127	Mr. Chairman. I have two short questions. The first relates to Mr Van Ojik's interference and our responsibility towards developing countries. Earlier in his series, the Prime Minister had written to the Financial Times on support for Africa. There was talk of 100 billion. We have not heard much of that since then. So it would be good if he could explain here what the amount is, when et cetera. Then there is the second question. At that windfall tax, I wasn't talking about the Brexit, I was talking about companies that are taking excessive advantage of the corona crisis. That's what I cared about. I can imagine that is indeed too complicated in the context of the Brexit. But for European justice, for example, it would be a good thing to tax the tech companies, which are very good at it. Finally, Mr President. In his speech, the Prime Minister talked about the importance of a Europe as a player in the new geopolitical relations. I would like to encourage the Prime Minister to use his experience and to use his relationship with ally Germany to reach a strong compromise rather than a watery rubbert with the economical four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u128	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u129	Mr. Chairman. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers, although they sometimes came very quickly, but I have been paying attention. I look forward to the need assessment. That is indeed necessary to really know what we are getting into. I have really gained more comfort from the Prime Minister when it comes to his struggle for clear conditions, the temporality of the plans and, above all, the checkable milestones. That's good to hear. He has said that in the second term he will come back to the question of how he is going to help ensure that this money ends up with real people, with real households, with real companies, unlike those thousands of billions of the ECB, who, after all, have led to huge flows of money, desperately looking for a destination somewhere in the world. How does this end up in the real economy? I have co-signed motions, including the motion by Mr Van Ojik and others. in piece No. 1550 on vaccines in developing countries. There will be another motion by Mr Anne Mulder on the CPB and a motion by Mr Omtzigt on Vredestein. It's got my name on it, too. I'll come back to that last subject, Vredestein. In the meantime, the Rubber Remembrance Book will be ordered by Mr Wilders and me in 100 years' time. We will be very happy to offer that to the Prime Minister soon. I would, of course, like to invite colleagues to attend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u130	Thank you. Mr Omtzigt has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u131	Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister is asking for a new title.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u132	Do you have it yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u133	In the negotiations, the prime minister must be mainly steel, but rubber tyres are still a bit finer under the car. Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers. I am very much looking forward to the need assessment, because there is now an idea from the European Commission that looks more like a political idea than something that countries need to get out of this crisis. That must be done before any decision is taken here, so thank you for the commitment. The CDA believes it should be loans instead of gifts. The CDA wants to look closely at this allocation and supports the strong link to the rule of law. The rule of law is not only there because it is important there. It is also important for the Dutch citizen. After all, it is important that, if you get into trouble in Poland, you are treated fairly there too, for example if you have a maintenance case. The same applies to the Poles. That is at the heart of our European rule of law. If you can travel freely to all Schengen countries but are not treated properly, we all have a problem. The same applies to Malta. If the Prime Minister still has time: go set up a JIT with Malta, because even the police commissioner is suspected there now, except that the entire cabinet is now under investigation. That's very handsome, I must say. I have never seen that in a country of the European Union. Strict conditions; hold on to them. The situation is exceptional. The problems are exceptional. But some of these problems have been around a little too long. I'd like to file another motion on Apollo Vredestein. It's very important. The Prime Minister says there's nothing we can do about it now. That's right, but read the article on Follow the Money. The Netherlands also failed in 2014, by not objecting to what happened at that time. I can ask long-term parliamentary questions about it and I would also like to use it as a turning point, but that is not going to help for these jobs. I want something done for these people, who have often worked there for 30 years. I can assure you that if in Enschede 600 people who specialize in their work lose their jobs, those people, who are all around 50, 55, have a huge problem. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that Vredestein/Apollo, with strong support from the Hungarian Government and the agreement of the European Commission, built a new tyre factory in Hungary;]] [[noting that Vredestein/Apollo now intends to close a very large proportion of its production in Enschede;]] [[calls on the Government to make a maximum effort to maintain production and employment in the Netherlands, including looking at European resources and unconventional methods, and to inform the Chamber within six weeks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Omtzigt, Mr Bruins, Mr Wiersma, Mr Wilders, Mr Asscher, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Leijten, Mr Van Ojik, Mr Jetten, Mr Bishop and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1553]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u134	Thank you for the commitment on Brexit. Unfortunately, we have to get back to that after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u136	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thank you to the Prime Minister for answering the questions. I think it's a bit of an adventure we're falling into. I very much agree with the pleas made by my fellow Members to be very careful in setting the conditions, and to be firm in keeping with them. We must not get carried away by political considerations or whatever. I asked a question on which, as far as I am concerned, the answer did not come out very well. The question was: is it not the case that the recovery fund is aimed at restoring the EU's overall resilience? So that the recovery fund, as it were, removes the responsibility for the recovery of the economy and society a little from the Member States and attracts it a little bit to the EU? I would like to explain this further. I am also curious when there is clarity about the compatibility of EU loans with the EU treaties. I heard the Prime Minister say "we do not expect this to conflict," but it is being investigated. I would like to know at what time that is clear. As far as Brexit is concerned, I very much welcome the Prime Minister's remark that it is a priority issue in the negotiations and that without a proper fisheries regime, no Brexit regime will be established. I think this is a good guarantee for that profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u137	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This kind of debate is always going to have something weird. We cannot talk about all the facts, but only about the commitment in the negotiations. This time it was even more foggy, if I may put it that way, because a number of regulations are in the scaffolding, but there is no clarity as to the criteria under which these arrangements will be applied or on the distribution between the different countries. This means that we can always only give conditional support to an effort. This also applies to what is then called "other countries that need to reform'. I agree with Mr Wilders when it comes to taxation, but I disagree with the Prime Minister. I agree that informal economies and undeclared work should be addressed and that people should pay taxes. In the Netherlands we also have a lot to eat when it comes to a fair distribution of tax payments. But if we in Europe have to turn our backs on the weak in the labour market and on the elderly by calling for reform of the pension system, then I think we are on the wrong track. That is the wrong kind of preaching of a gospel that we do not like. Finally, the Brexit. We're in a very difficult story. It is not only in the interests of fishermen, but it goes much further. We need fishermen to have a level playing field in all kinds of areas when it comes to products that need to be traded over and over again. Without an agreement on fishing rights, this cannot be the case. Hence our call to keep our backs straight and stand behind Barnier.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u140	I'd like to file a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the European Commission intends to finance the EUR 750 billion recovery package through capital market loans to be repaid jointly by all Member States through the EU budget;]] [[Whereas this is a form of EU debt mutualisation;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain its commitment to the request, expressed in the approved motion for a resolution, not to agree to any form of EU debt mutualisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1554]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u142	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u143	Mr. Chairman. I'm tabling a motion on something to which the Prime Minister is going to reply. I've exchanged this with the Minister of Finance before, but then I couldn't get anywhere. I did announce the motion at the time. I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, at the time of the reply, I will have to leave the sitting. That is not out of disrespect to colleagues and the Prime Minister, but there are some "extracurricular parents" on the Square that I would like to speak to.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u144	I know. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u145	The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the ECB intends to pump EUR 600 billion back into the economy by buying up private and public debt;]] [[noting that private debt buy-back leads to higher dividend payments to shareholders;]] [[believes that it is undesirable for the expansion of funds to come into the hands of a few and not to support the real economy;]] [[calls on the government to inform the ECB that QE policy should not lead to the disposal of billions to shareholders,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1555]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u146	I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u147	Mr. Chairman. I have five questions to answer and 11 motions. I'd like to raise one motion. That's a one-two behind the scenes between me and Pieter Ommzigt, because he has to be somewhere else, I was reported. That's the motion in part No. 1553. I'll start with that, and then I'll do the questions and the other motions. The motion in part No. 1553 is about Vredestein. If I may interpret her in such a way that "unconventional" means looking creatively at all possibilities within the existing legal frameworks, then the judgment is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u148	Thank you. Then we will have a report in six weeks to see if it has worked out and I hope that it will succeed sooner and that Prime Minister Rutte, as he said this morning, will make a firm commitment to the people of Vredestein. I would not say that he should do anything outside the legal framework, which goes against the law. He knows that. But he can really use all his creativity and he has a lot of creativity, so do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u149	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u150	Thank you, also for this inherent compliment. I would also like to point out that where we talked earlier about plastic and ETS, these are not taxes but foundations. Here and there the impression is now that they are taxes, I saw on some websites, perhaps a little stirred up by D66, who is here eager to introduce European taxes. But unfortunately I have to say to Mr Jetten: they are not taxes, they are bases. There is therefore no European envelope with twelve stars, unless it is D66 campaign material. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the five questions that remain. First of all, by Mr Omtzig on the separate housing of the recovery fund. The recovery fund has a temporary character in the Commission's plans, so this can be committed until 2024. The size and distribution between loans and grants is laid down in the own resources decision. That is what decision-making takes place by unanimity. It has already been defined that only corona can be borrowed. The temporaryity of the recovery fund will also be laid down in the own resources decision, so that no additional expenditure for COVID-19 financed by loans can be made after the MFF without the agreement of the Netherlands. I would like to say this in response to an explicit question by Mr Omtzig just now, but in part also to Mr Bruins. Mrs Leijten had a question about the ECB's buy-back programmes. As is well known, the ECB decides on monetary policy independently. That is why, in general terms, I am always reluctant to comment on the effects of specific ECB instruments such as the purchase of corporate debt. However, I can point out that it is usually difficult to determine clearly what the precise impact of ECB policy has been. After all, we do not know what the situation would have been without that buy-back policy. In addition, there has been an increasing trend in dividend payments worldwide in recent years, including in countries where the central bank does not buy corporate debt. I have once again checked the Reuters report on the "bad bank"-like initiatives at the ECB. We still cannot discover a proposal and will ask questions and include it in the European Council's report. A question from Mr Bishop on the resilience of countries. Is that a European competence now? No, that remains a national competence. The countries must make and submit plans for this. When will there be legal clarity? We hope next week. The Council's legal service will then be given advice. We will inform the House of Representatives as soon as possible. While doing all that, I thought about what I had also heard from Mr Bruins. I thought I had answered his question in the first term, but I think he was still referring to the guarantee that the money could also end up in the real economy. I thought I had already said something about this in the first period, but perhaps a plethora: that recovery fund, the MFF and the Eurogroup package obviously include many different instruments, each with its own objective or at least its own target group, or both. The recovery fund focuses on investment growth capacity, coupled with reforms. Then you talk about, for example, infrastructure or education. This is therefore also in the interest of businesses and in the interest of households. In addition, there are several instruments aimed at supporting companies. For example, the programmes via the EIB, which were part of the Eurogroup package that is going back to small and medium-sized enterprises. Then you talk about the solvency instrument, the pan-European guarantee fund. In that sense, it is certainly my and our goal, and I also think Mr Bruins's goal, to get that across in our societies. The motion in part No. I should like to advise Mr Wilders on 1545. The same applies to the motion in part No. 1546. The motion in part No. I would advise against a 1547 increase in the MFF. We really need to go into the negotiations first and see how far we can get. You know the whole effort we have been discussing here in the debate. Announcement of the nexit would not be in the interest of the Netherlands; so advise against it. Motion in part No. 1549 Judgment Room. It's an effort obligation. We are always committed to policies in line with the Paris climate agreement. Motion in part No. 1550 Judgment Chamber, because it is in line with policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u151	Don't you agree, Mr. Van Ojik?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u152	It may be unusual; I realize that. I know that the Prime Minister had already said 'we are working on this' on this point, but I think it is very complicated and it is not self-evident. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to report to the Chamber on this intention after some time. If the motion is passed, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u153	Not me, but someone from the cabinet will do this. It is not the case that we can help everyone in developing countries with a vaccine, but you are trying to ensure that the vaccine becomes available to some extent. The motion in part No. 1551 is about "not having to consist exclusively of loans'. Dissuade. I am not going to comment on that now, referring to the interruption we had at the end of the first term. I propose the motion in part No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). As soon as this is there, I'd like to involve the motion. So my proposal is to hold the motion until there is a proposal that we can then give an appreciation, otherwise I have to discourage it. Motion in part No. 1554, dissuade. It just doesn't add up. The proposal is not an EU debt mutualisation. This means that the Omtzigt motion is 100% in force and guidelines for our policy. Then motion-Leijten to part No. 1555. The ECB is independent. Nor is it in the Dutch interest that the ECB should follow instructions from EU Member States, so I would like to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u154	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-06-17-tweedekamer-5.u155	The motions tabled will be put to the vote tomorrow. I thank the Prime Minister and the Members of Parliament.
