ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u1	Now I'm going to the last question. This is from Mrs Ouwehand, on behalf of the Animal Party, to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, whom I warmly welcome. The question is about the risks of contaminated mink farms. I call Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u2	Good to see the Minister of Agriculture again in this house for the first time in time. Welcome. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has the debatable honour to have the world's first outbreak of corona in livestock farming. And then we also have the world premiere that it has infected people, as it now looks like. We have seen that the message from the Ministry of LNV was first: the risk of people becoming infected is negligible. But then it happened, and then there was a second infection. What have we learned from the Q fever outbreak, when people got very seriously ill and died from infection from goat farming? That you do not have to take more time for research every time or wait until you are 100% sure, but that you have to act on the precautionary principle. At the end of April, the Animal Party, together with GroenLinks and the SP, immediately asked the Minister to close the mink farms, because the government is getting out of its way to get control of that virus. Very far-reaching measures are being taken. Fundamental rights are temporarily suspended. And then you would take a risk that all scientists say you shouldn't want to, with a reservoir of animals where the virus can develop and so in the long run, or even now, can infect people again? Why would the cabinet want to take that risk, given that the rest of the country has been completely locked up?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for letting me speak in this Chamber about these important matters, because we share that. It was a real shock for everyone when we heard that the minks were infected, but certainly also when we, just by looking very carefully at them, found that there was also a mink-on-human contamination. So I share Mrs Ouwehand's concern and I share the concern of the people concerned. I would like to stress that the mink owners themselves are not the least shocked. They have to deal with this themselves, of course. Mrs Ouwehand asks: why have the steps been taken as they have been taken and what are we actually doing? That's how I interpret her question. We found in April that mink could be infected with the covid virus. At that time we have already taken a number of precautions to ensure that this contamination could not develop further outside the stables. That is what we have done, for example, by imposing a ban on visiting these stables, by not draining the manure from those farms and also by saying that protective measures and protective clothing must be used by those who care for those animals. We have seen that there has been a mink-on-human contamination. There are now two cases where other members of the second family have also become ill. But we can't exactly figure it out. That is precisely where we started to investigate very carefully the origin of that disease. We have carried out a number of investigations immediately to determine whether it was also present outside those companies, because it is of course of the utmost importance to know if the virus is only in the stable. In that case you can control it; that's what the experts said yesterday. Then you can take measures to keep it in that stable. Or is it also present in the air outside those stables? All the studies carried out show that this risk is negligible. So if you follow the rules in that stable properly, it can stay there. By the way, the chances of us infecting each other, human-to-human contamination, are still many times greater than animal-to-human contamination. That is also what the experts said yesterday in the technical briefing, which you also listened to and which you kept yourself. Don't you ever have opportunities where you look further? No, we take steps step by step every time we get back to research. That investigation is taking place with the greatest urgency. There are a lot of people involved, who are very committed to doing so. We have also seen every time that we take action afterwards. There are still a number of studies in the pipeline. I have already said that at the end of this week there will be an investigation into the possibility of the virus remaining on these companies. On the basis of these results, we are going to look again at the steps that need to be taken. It is now aimed at controlling the virus to the maximum extent at those companies, in those stables, and at protecting people to the maximum. This is what the measures are aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u5	But then the Minister will still be stuck in the dynamics that we have been so strongly warned about in the Q fever. Take the time for more research... No, the precautionary principle must prevail. You also have to act if you don't have scientific certainty yet. Can the Minister confirm that the investigations she is talking about have taken place at companies at the time when mothers had not yet been young? There are around 800,000 dams living on these mink farms for their lifetime in wire mesh cages. They get puppies in May, who have to sit in wire mesh cages until autumn until they are gassed for their fur. So that reservoir we're talking about is now five times bigger than it was a month ago. Nor has there been any research on, for example, a company in Deurne, whereas the mink farmer and the veterinarians who come there say: this disease is going much more violent than the companies that the minister had investigated. The animals are sicker and there are more animals in those stables because the dams have given birth. These are all uncertain factors that only increase the risk. And yet the Minister says: wait a little longer; we are doing some more research; we have done it well; there is no reason to think that this is a major risk. Q fever has taught you to act as a precaution. Why haven't these companies shut down yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u6	Let me really point out that public health is number one. There's no second doubt about that. We are taking the measures we need to take to ensure that. So if parallels were to be drawn and the equation made, I say: that is really the case here. Public health is number one and everything is subordinate to that. A number of veterinarians from Deurne have indeed expressed concerns about the possible risks to public health following the contamination of that plant. We have now established a zoonosis structure in which the Minister for Health is leading. I believe that you will be voting on a motion on this this afternoon, but that is all the practice. Technically, the health minister should have been here. Mrs Ouwehand is not working entirely according to the motion she has tabled, but that aside. We base our policies and current measures on the results of research and the assessment of veterinary and human experts, because those are the people who really have the expertise. These people have said that the risk is negligible that the virus is present in the air outside the stables. That was different with the Q fever, for example. There it was indeed to spread by air. Those researchers also indicate that the research is representative of all contaminated mink farms. These are the experts. They indicate that what they have investigated also applies to other places. We know that there are now a greater number of mink on the farms. That is why the research is being carried out, which we hope will be given the first results on Friday, so that we can look again at what is needed. There are no taboos. We take a step-by-step look at what is needed for this and public health is at number one.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u7	In the technical briefing yesterday, the experts to which the Minister refers rightly stated very clearly that it is up to politics to make the choices here. All the experts, including the experts we heard yesterday, warn of a reservoir, such a reservoir in the animals that you may suffer from later. It is true that the cabinet now restricts the whole country. Luckily, we can relax a little bit. But we are at risk of having a big second wave in September or October, which is simply not explainable. I would therefore be grateful if the Minister would refer to the full opinion of the experts. It's our weighting. The question is: does the Minister choose to keep a sector where foxes were found illegally last week, which has expanded illegally, on its feet, while all other sectors in the Netherlands are allowed to lock up? Or does she now opt for the precautionary principle? That is something we have heard the Prime Minister say so many times: the precautionary principle is paramount; it is better to act wisely now than regret afterwards. That mink breeding must be closed, the breeding must be stopped and the same applies to the export of these animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u8	The experts have said that it is a broad political weighting. I agree with them. That is also a weighting, but we do so on the basis of the information and investigations they provide. Once again, at the end of this week, we will have a study in which we hope to find out more about the likelihood of a reservoir being present. On that basis, we are taking further decisions. I would also like to draw Mrs Ouwehand's attention to the following. She is now talking about stopping these companies. That means de facto clearance. She has to admit that. If things were to go the way she wants them to, if they were to take it so wide, it would mean that all animals that are healthy would also be disposed of. That's an ultimate cure. I'm saying we don't shy away from using that if it's necessary, but then it has to be well-founded why you're doing that. So I do need some of those tests for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u9	On 1 January 2024, mink farming in the Netherlands is over. That is the result of an initiative law of the SP and a long-cherished wish of my party. But we have corona now, and that changes the situation. The scientists who informed us yesterday said: you must prevent those minks from becoming a reservoir of corona. When I see five locations with thousands of small cages containing thousands of mink with corona, I really don't understand how you can see that as anything other than a reservoir and why you're not going to clear immediately. I can only think of two rational reasons for this, and I would like to ask the Minister if that is true. One: you need the locations for research. You say we want to do research, there are locations here where mink have corona, let's use it. Two, we don't have any legal grounds to clear up. I would therefore like to ask the Minister if she has received an opinion which shows that now giving an order for clearance might not prove legally sustainable and that is why we are waiting for it. But those are the only two reasons I can think of.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u10	Spacing is always the ultimate cure. That is what you do when there is a great danger to public and animal health. I'm just trying to explain what steps there are. If there is a major risk to animal health, there must also be a substantial increase in the number of animals killed or the risk of infection must be very high for other farms where animals can also become ill very quickly. People are concerned that there is also a greater risk of people being infected. We've now seen two infections. Those are two too many of them, and that is what I am saying right away, but the chances of the virus being transmitted from human to human are even greater. That's a fact, too. We don't need a reservoir. I am quite clear about that: that cannot be the case. But to know if there's a reservoir going on, I turned off that investigation. I need the results of that to have a reason to take other steps. That's why we do it this way. I don't know if there's any reservoir formation. That must be demonstrated by the results. It may also be that it just extinguishes on those companies. That was also discussed yesterday in the technical briefing. I do not rule out anything, there are no taboos, but I do want to take steps on the basis of the information I receive and on the basis of which I can take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u11	We're seeing a slow awakening in the minister's office. In March, there were no indications that animals could be a source of contamination for humans. In April there was talk of "a negligible risk" and in May there was talk of "a plausible case of animal contamination on humans." In answering my colleagues' questions, too, we see that the Minister is slowly moving towards a scenario in which companies can be removed. GroenLinks welcomes this, not because we want to kill animals, but because we think it is very important for public health. My question to the Minister is: if companies are about to be removed, how can we prevent them from being filled with animals again next year, when we know that the mink breeding will end in 2023?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u12	I reject Mrs Bromet's suggestion that I do not want anything to do with public health. Let me be clear about that. I've always said public health is number one. It is precisely because we are doing so good research and are constantly watching what is happening that we now know a great deal. We now also know that an animal-to-human contamination is possible. It's not like we're looking away from that. We are always very transparent and open, because we also consider this important to society. Then there is the question of whether mink farming will be able to continue in due course. Your Chamber has formally passed this law requiring them to stop by 1 January 2024 at the latest. That's the law I have to abide by. So that does not allow me to say that they should stop earlier. I do have a subsidy scheme in place that allows mink farmers to stop earlier. I am now trying to get this regulation through the European process of state aid approval as soon as possible, so that there will soon be a choice for the mink holder to stop or continue. But on the basis of the law you have passed, I have no option other than to allow the mink owners until 1 January 2024 to continue their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u13	We heard the Prime Minister over and over again saying that 100% of the measures should be taken on the basis of 50% of the information. I note that 100% of knowledge is first sought here and half-measures are taken until then. We know the mink farms have to stop in 2024. The animals live a horrible life there. Why does the Minister allow these breeding sites of coronaviruses to survive while those viruses can be further towed by stray cats? The companies are not complete, we also heard yesterday during the information meeting. Why doesn't the Minister want to speed up cutting down the mink farms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u14	I have just explained that I am dealing with a legal framework of your Chamber. What I can do, however, is to make available as soon as possible the subsidy scheme that we have in place, so that mink owners have a choice. But formally, I have to abide by the law you have prescribed me.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u15	It is a worrying situation, not least for mink farms, the people and families who live and work there. I would also like to say to colleagues: in order to solve the hopelessness of all those companies, I think it would be very good if there were a proper settlement so that people could also move on with their lives. That is not possible with the current regime. I will keep my question brief. This concerns the distinction made by the Minister in her letters between a reporting obligation for veterinarians visiting mink farms and a lighter form of reporting for other animal holdings or pets. We barely know the virus. My question to the Minister is: why stick to that distinction between reporting obligations in one sector and the rest? I think we really want to get to know the virus better, including in the areas of animals and livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u16	In the livestock sector there is de facto a reporting obligation through the veterinarians. If there is a breakdown on the farms, there will be a veterinarian, who will then find out that something is going on. We ask the vet to report that there is covid. Then there are the individuals, because I think Mrs Lodder is pointing to cats, dogs and so on. If I set up a general reporting obligation for anyone who owns such an animal, it may be that everyone thinks: should I call NVWA or anyone else because I think my animal is sick? It becomes very uncertain for people to establish that, because they are not the experts and do not know what is going on. We have therefore asked veterinarians, when they find that a dog, cat or other animal is ill, to pass on to NVWA that there is an animal disease. Otherwise you will get a lot of reports from people who are concerned, and I understand that too, but who do not themselves have the expertise to establish that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u17	D66 finds keeping mink for fur objectionable. It is therefore a good thing that this farming is banned by 2024. Yesterday we learned from scientists that mink can infect each other, but also humans. If there is one lesson from all the animal diseases that we have unfortunately learned in the Netherlands, then you are actually taking the most far-reaching measure, such as swine fever, foot-and-mouth disease and avian influenza. Unfortunately, in the case of Q fever, we have seen what happens if you continue to do research first and only intervene afterwards. The Minister puts public health on one. The same goes for D66. But I do not think it can be explained that with the knowledge we have now, the already infected farms will not be eliminated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u18	I just tried to explain that. This clearance is not taboo, but it must be done on the basis of significant animal health and public health impacts. The swine fever and the avian flu, for example, are highly contagious diseases that can incredibly quickly contaminate animals. To that extent, we don't see it in the minks. It is not the case, for example, that the whole stable is immediately infected or that it is very quickly transferred to other companies in the area, also because it may not be spread by air. On the human side we are very alert. Hence the research into reservoir formation on these companies. I really need those results to have a solid foundation. On that basis, we will consider what steps are needed. Again, public health is on one and there are no taboos.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u19	The Minister has already indicated that all scenarios are still open for future action. Now we've been a few days. Perhaps time is our greatest enemy. I would like to ask the Minister which scenarios are currently being developed and which scenarios are most promising.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u20	All scenarios are open, as I said. When I look at the spectrum, I see what we're doing now. We're testing all the mink farms now. Then you get the protection measures for all the mink farms. Moreover, we also have an arrangement whereby they have to take preventive action in all kinds of cases. And if there are reservoirs, that's really an undesirable situation. You do have a scenario of clearing. So the whole spectrum is open. All options are on the table. It is important that we support things with what we see and that it actually happens. That is important to continue with, so I also offer the possibility for the mink owners to stop themselves if they want to sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u21	When the news came out that mink had been infected and infected people, I saw that a lot of people were very surprised that we still have that in the Netherlands: animals breed for their fur in wire mesh cages. Well, that's true. This sector may continue until 1 January 2024. What people also don't know is that the Netherlands also exports mink to build a mink farm elsewhere. I wonder, given the contamination, if that's gonna happen. Are there any mink exports at the moment? And if so, is the Minister prepared to shut that down?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u22	I do not have the latest information on Mrs Ouwehand's question. I should check to see if that's true. Your Chamber will receive a letter about the additional measures we are going to take for all mink farms, also as a precaution to keep the virus on the farm when it is there. Allow me to include the answer to that question in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. We'll wait and see. The argument of the Party for Animals is clear: now agree that there are no more minks being bred and no more exports of mink. And when it comes to killing animals, because that is actually what is cleared up, I would like to ask the Minister whether she can confirm that the minks that are now born are about 4 million people born purely to spend their sad lives in a wire mesh cage until November or December and then gassed for fur. Could the Minister perhaps explain to me what is so respectful about this when she says: we must be good with animals in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u24	I would like to point out to Mrs Ouwehand that when she talks about stopping mink farming, it means clearing mink farming immediately and that that also means killing those animals. That was the portrait of my reply to Mrs Ouwehand who did not say the word 'clear', but spoke of'stopping'. That always sounds a bit more neat, but I would like to outline the reality of what that means. In general, the policy in the Netherlands is that you clear up when there is a real risk of infection for animals and for people. That is the overall line and I am open to all the options in it. Again, there is nothing that cannot be discussed in advance, but we are doing it on the basis of the risks and the investigations that lie underneath, so that we can make the right decisions. We'll do it in that order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u25	Thank you. Mrs Ouwehand has the impression that her question has not been answered. No, Mrs. Ouwehand, you don't get the opportunity at all to go again...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u26	I think she's...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u27	Just explaining.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u28	It's about killing animals. The Minister plays the card that it would be very bad to clean up animals now, to kill. And then I say: if that is very bad for public health, what is less serious about killing animals for fur?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u29	I'm not talking about "bad," "bad" or anything. I mentioned that we just have procedures and arguments for that. These apply in general and also to mink farming. That is not a separate regime or anything like that. Again, all options are open. So it is not that I rule out anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-05-26-tweedekamer-4.u30	Thank you. This brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and then we shall vote.
