ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u1	Mr Van Dam's question to the Secretary of State for Defence on Dutch defence weapons sold to an intermediary through a controversial deal is now on the agenda. Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, you had to call me, but here I am. The Netherlands has a rather clear policy when it comes to the sale of end-of-life defence equipment. There's actually three flavors. It is sold to a friendly state, it is destroyed, or returned to the supplier. You do not belong to the option that it is sold to a third party. What amazes me when I got a picture of an arms trade in Malta through contacts last summer. There were 25 semi-automatic weapons in the window. It also advertised: "good equipment, because these weapons were used by the Royal Marechaussee in the Netherlands." Later it appeared that they also had a number of Glock guns on offer, also coming from the Netherlands. Thanks to research collective Spit "beautiful name" and RTL News it has become clear that 800 weapons have been sold on the private market in the Netherlands. They weren't destroyed, they weren't returned to the supplier and they weren't sold to a friendly state. To previous parliamentary questions, the Secretary of State replied that the company to which the sale was made would be dealer of Heckler & Koch, the supplier. But that doesn't make any sense. Mr. Chairman. How is it possible that, contrary to existing policies, these weapons were sold to a third party? How is it possible that the Chamber has not been informed about this? What happened to the other 775 guns?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State for Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u4	(NL) Mr President, could the chair please raise a little?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u5	It's possible. You can configure it yourself. There's a button over there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u6	Look. Before I go into the test, I would, of course, like to ask the President's permission. Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by thanking Mr Van Dam for the questions on weapons. I think it's right to raise questions when you see something on a website. That is also why a careful process has been agreed in which you cannot just sell weapons. This is what we do in the Commission on Sales of Defence Material. That is a committee consisting of Finance, Foreign Affairs and Defence. It will be checked in advance whether you are allowed to sell. All kinds of permits and guarantees apply. This has also happened in this case. You cannot simply sell; a review is first carried out. Mr Van Dam is quite right about that. To that end, you must have a permit when it comes to the Arms and Ammo Act. If you want to sell it, the State Department checks on arms exports policy. Moreover, the Court is informed of this annually with an overview in Annex 6 of the defence equipment sold that year and for which an export licence has also been obtained. In this case, that procedure was simply followed. It has been submitted to the committee, it has been asked whether this could be sold and there is a licence from the party that bought these weapons. It is true what Mr Van Dam says. The answer said "official sales agent," but it may also be a trusted partner associated with it. That should have been added, but this procedure has gone very carefully. There are procedures for this, but I have asked the following question in connection with this case. We as the Defense Department have the starting point: if weapons still have economic added value, they will be sold. Is that still the right starting point? Should you not only look at the economic added value, so you look at whether you can sell it with all the guarantees it has to offer, but also whether or not other considerations should play a role in the balancing framework? As a result of this case, I asked to come up with a new balancing framework and to see if we should also consider other elements. I propose that, in this case, I inform the Court of Justice about what the balancing framework will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u7	I always like it when people learn from mistakes. Still, in this case, as far as I'm concerned, a pretty good mistake has been made twice. Firstly, the Chamber has not been informed. That is a common policy, especially when it comes to 800 machine guns. Secondly, a mistake has been made in answering the questions. I'm glad the Secretary of State will straighten that out here. What I particularly have a lot of trouble with is that Malta is now being advertised with Dutch machine guns. Is it really the intention that these weapons should be sold and then go around the world or at least go through the whole of the European Union? Imagine that there will soon be a robbery here in the Netherlands or elsewhere or a criminal offence involving such a machine gun suddenly emerging. Then the Secretary of State can say: yes, that's all regulated, a good company and you name it. But you and I know that there are countries in our European Union where the rules might be a little different than here in our fresh Netherlands. The further that sale continues, the greater the risk of it going wrong. There is another point. In 2015 we had the attacks in Paris, in the Bataclan. As a result, very strict European legislation has been put in place to prevent weapons from entering the illicit trade. There are a lot of people in the Netherlands who want to nail Grandpa's shotgun above the fireplace, but that's almost impossible because you have to deactivate it; huge rules apply to that. How is it possible that we have this strict policy together and at the same time the Defence Department sells 800 machine guns and that for a small amount, if you look at the entire Defence budget, of €168,000? I just can't reach that with my hat. Can't the Secretary of State explain it again? Who is she doing business with when it comes to the sale of weapons and to what extent does the policy to prevent arms being sold unlimitedly also form part of the defence policy to sell arms?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u8	Defense policy is that we don't just sell guns. I have just explained to you that a careful procedure has been designed for this, which is not just about the Defense Department. That is under the direction of the Ministry of Finance, together with Foreign Affairs and with Defence. For that there are procedures, just as you say, even within Europe. You can find something about Malta. It may be a discussion in the context of foreign policy about the rule of law in Malta and whether you think they meet European values and standards. Perhaps there are several countries that you want to have that debate. But it also applies to sales to Malta and within Europe that you have the guarantees and that you have to comply with the European laws and regulations that apply at that time. Additional requirements apply to sales outside Europe and additional guarantees are also included. All this is happening under the responsibility of the State Department. Strict standards and procedures apply to this, because you do not want weapons to end up in the wrong hands. That is precisely why this process has been designed. In response to this case and the questions you had raised, I said: "Guys, is only the economic added value the right starting point? Shouldn't we look at that one more time?" This is the policy adopted and is fulfilled. You may think that the policy is not good, but that may be another question. That is why I have indicated that I think it would be good to take another look at this, to see if only the economic added value should be a reason for selling. The fact that I'm asking this question already indicates how I feel about it. Then the example of what could happen in a robbery. That already means that it is no longer in the hands of a party that holds a licence for it, because as you yourself well know, in the Netherlands and beyond, you simply have to comply with the Arms and Ammunition Act and that you have to have permits and accreditations. As you know, there are all kinds of safeguards. The same applies to this case. This is true in the Netherlands, in Europe and beyond.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u9	In conclusion, Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u10	I think it is too much of a story in terms of: the operation is well performed, but I note that the patient has died. Isn't that the problem? I do not hear the Secretary of State say that she is also dissatisfied that those weapons have ended up in Malta or that 775 machine guns are now somewhere. What's gonna happen to that? Isn't that the responsibility of the Secretary of State? As far as I am concerned, the last word has not yet been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you, Mr. Van Dam. I shall go first to Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen on behalf of GroenLinks, then to Mrs Belhaj and then to Mrs Karabulut. Mr Van den Nieuwenhuijzen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u12	I'm a little surprised at the lax attitude of this cabinet. There are weapons systems going to Egypt knowing that arms embargoes are being violated there, and now there are old weapons on a web shop website in Malta. In 2018, GroenLinks informed about what actually happens with old weapons. Then you said we only sell them to another government, or we destroy them. Apparently, that wasn't the right answer. In your own physical project overview, you say: "When weapons and weapons systems are disposed of, the Chamber is always informed." And that's not the case either, because we only get an overview of "some things are being sold," but we don't know to whom, not what and not how. It may not interest the Minister and the Secretary of State where it ends up, but it does interest the Chamber. So my question is: why is the Chamber not informed and why is it that you give answers in 2018 that you do not comply with?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u13	It's two things, including the Defense Project Review. As you can see, we are dealing with the proposed sale of a large arms system. You can also see on page 150, I do not know by heart that we indicate what we intend to do in relation to the weapons systems that we want to sell. I will then inform you specifically by letter. If we intend to sell a weapons system, you can decide at the procedural meeting whether you want to discuss it or not. In the case of all other weapons for which an export licence is also applied for, you will be informed annually via the Foreign Affairs report, in which you can see for which weapons and for which equipment of Defence has actually been granted an export licence. That's not something the D.O.D. decides. That's why it goes through the State Department. You can check there. I understand that the Chamber has also asked for written consultations with the Foreign Minister and the Minister for BuHa-OS to ask a number of very specific questions about, among other things, the sale of defence equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u14	I understand the anger and amazement of colleagues and I also understand what the Secretary of State is saying, but what I do not understand is why the Secretary of State suggests that this is about non-strategic equipment. It is strategically material and a number of conditions apply, regardless of that licensing path. Just as Mr Van Dam points out, this is preferably done in a certain order. You choose to destroy it or sell it back to the producer, partly in response to debates in 2011 about a sale that would take place to Kenya. That was valued as "not convenient" at the time. Those were guns, too. Then it was said: there is a risk that it will still be sold or rerouted. My question is as follows. You act as if it is in accordance with all the rules, but I wonder about that in connection with the debate that has already taken place with the Chamber. The Chamber would like to be briefed on this. I don't remember that being once a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u15	The 2011 debate is not in my mind, but I will, of course, find out. The point is that, as a result of the Van den Doel motion, that is another motion from the 1990's, we promised the Chamber that we would inform the Chamber in advance when selling weapons systems. So do we. In reply to Mr Van Dam's question, I did not wish to suggest in any way that this would not be a strategic weapon system. That's exactly why I explained how the system works right now. The system is equipped with guarantees. That means that not only the Ministry of Defence decides on this. This consideration takes place under the direction of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have indicated that the trade-off is now: sales if there is economic added value. In response to the CDA's questions, I said: "People, is this still the right balance? Maybe there are other things involved and you should look at them with a different look." But this was the policy. In reply to Mr Van Dam's question, I wanted to say that this sale also took place through this policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u16	Since it is listening closely, I would like to ask the Secretary of State if she can send a letter to the Chamber about the whole case. The State Secretary states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance are also on that committee. I'd like to know exactly how that went. In my opinion, the DOD itself is ultimately responsible for assessing the risks and for the final statement "we want a go on that" and not another ministry. In order to learn from it well, I would like to have that in a clear row, including the policy rules for it, which are hardly to be found, apart from informal agreements. That's important. And I would also like the Secretary of State to send a letter stating the facts in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u17	I have just indicated that I will return to the Chamber after I have asked for a new balancing framework. I think it is good to include this case, or at least to outline the background to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u18	Ms Karabulut on behalf of the SP and then Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u19	About that balancing framework: it is of course very crazy when Defence, the Dutch government, sells weapons without knowing who the end user is. Then, of course, it is perfectly normal for us to be concerned that those weapons, which could kill innocent civilians, should end up in the hands of criminals, also knowing the state of the rule of law in Malta and knowing that there are criminals everywhere. So my question to the Secretary of State is: shouldn't the starting point be that these weapons be destroyed unless we know who the end user is and the Minister can give us guarantees?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u20	I want to separate two things. Mr Van Dam's question was: how did this turn out; I thought this was the policy. I answered that. I have said that this is in line with the policy, where the guarantees for sales within the Netherlands are with Defence. Outside the Netherlands, this is the responsibility of the State Department. The same applies to outside Europe. Then the existing arms export policy rules simply apply. This is also the subject of a specific assessment. As I have said, the Chamber receives a separate annual report on this, which shows how this has happened for defence equipment. But you are actually asking for a completely different policy framework, because you are actually saying: I do not want to sell if there is economic added value; I do not want to sell at all anymore. That's a completely different policy rule. On the basis of the new balancing framework that I asked for in connection with this case, I shall return to that. But I can see what the SP's angle is. I think I will have that debate with the SP when I come back with that balancing framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u21	It cannot be the case that our weapons fall into criminal hands and that innocent citizens can become victims of them. I think it is very good that the Secretary of State says that she does not actually want to sell weapons for the sake of finance, for the sake of money. I think it is therefore a good thing that the Secretary of State should come to the Chamber with a proposal in the very near future. I think there's a majority in the Chamber to take care of that very quickly here. Is she willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u22	I come up with a balancing framework, but as I just said, I'm not on my own. That's what the DOD Sales Commission is for. I must therefore also agree with the Foreign Affairs and Finance Ministers. And let it be very clear: I don't think anyone in this Chamber wants weapons to fall into the wrong hands. That is why this process has been so decorated. You need to get a permit. It's not like you can just sell it to Jan and alleman. The person to whom you supply the party must comply with the licensing rules. Those rules are different in the Netherlands than elsewhere. In the Netherlands, of course, Dutch laws and regulations apply. In Europe, European laws and regulations apply. Besides, you have international. Every time it is checked from everyone's responsibility and there are also conditions when it comes to selling outside Europe to the end user. These kinds of questions are simply asked and these kinds of conditions are laid down in contracts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-10-13-tweedekamer-4.u23	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
