ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u1	No, we'll continue with the Temporary Law Second Chamber Election Covid-19.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just signed the letter of amendment. I will come to that in a moment, because that was about your comment just now. But let me first say that I am extremely pleased that we are here today, indeed in the plenary, as some of the Members have said, appropriate to a legislative proposal which is so directly related to the existence of your Chamber, namely the elections. Here too, I would like to thank the Chamber for having been so diligent in dealing with this bill, so that it looks as if it will be voted on before Christmas. That's really nice. Of course, the Upper House must also consider it. I've already announced that they can expect it very soon. There is also little time, because the elections are in three months' time and that is fast. Precisely for elections, which need to be prepared so carefully and for which so much needs to be laid down in the law, it is crucial that we have enough time to do so. It might be good to say here that most of the work is of course in the municipalities. There are a lot of people involved and preparations are also in full swing. But that's all about preparation. Finally, you cannot take irreversible steps at this stage, because that requires the agreement of Parliament first. I intend to bring the law into force by 1 February at the latest. Mr. Chairman. Before I begin the substantive discussion, I would like to respond to your request. You will see that the bill states that the Chamber will meet on the thirteenth day. You are saying that it is unfortunate that the old House of Representatives should meet on Monday, because then all kinds of work would indeed have to be done at the weekend to ensure that everything is ready with the credentials, etc. This has to be settled in the Tickets Act. These kinds of deadlines are now also included in the Election Act. It is simply a question of establishing the result and an orderly procedure on the matter, with the approval of the new members. So a change will have to be made as Minister for Foreign Affairs, but certainly in that respect as your humble servant. So that is how the proposal should be seen. I agree with the President, I say to all Members, and therefore to the whole Chamber, that given the fact that we are now dealing with this corona situation, it would indeed be unfortunate to have both the old House of Representatives and the new House of Representatives here in one day. I therefore asked for a letter of amendment on that point immediately after the request. I just signed it, so we can work that out today. Instead of thirteen, it will be fourteen days, and I think that is just the one day that is needed to allow it to be done in an orderly manner. So I hope that I have met the President's wishes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u4	Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. Then there are the questions and comments that have just been made. Let me start by saying that I understand it all very well. I am also very pleased that the Chamber has looked so thoroughly into the whole process, made room for the technical briefing, looked closely at the letter sent by the municipalities and so on. So I see here a Chamber that has prepared itself extremely thoroughly for the handling of this bill, and that is also very good. That's why I recognize a lot of what has been said. I'll be very happy to deal with it. I'll do it on the next route. First of all, the questions that have to do with the vote in the letter, then the questions that mainly concern the early voting, the early voting, then the organisation of the elections themselves, the number of polling stations, polling stations, etc., and finally a number of other questions, and I would like to announce that the exit polls section will be dealt with by me there. As far as I am concerned, that is the order. I'll start with the letter vote. That is, of course, a major change. When we first talked about this, I sent a letter to the Chamber in May on the March 2021 elections. That is the first time I have suggested that we should look at the possibility of voting in letters. I then said in the next step, which was in September, that we should also vote with the municipalities in consultation on the feasibility of the letter. And finally, partly resulting in meeting the wishes of the Chamber, in the proposal before us. So that was a process that, of course, took some time, but it is really new to our country. I think there's every reason to do this, given the situation surrounding the corona virus. I shall begin with a few questions from Mrs Özötuk, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Raak and Mrs Kuik. The question was, "Just say it again. Why only for 70 and over? Why can't we extend that to, for example, the group of people with vulnerable health?" I would like to stress once again that it is really impossible for municipalities to determine who is or is not vulnerable to the coronavirus under 70. That's the main reason. I hope that Mr Van Otterloo says that this does not apply to every 70-year-old. That's true, too. But it is the generic vulnerable group. It is defined by RIVM, so by our experts, as by definition vulnerable to the coronavirus. That is also quite obvious, because mortality rates and mortality rates are increasing with age and from 70 onwards that is a risk that you should not want to take anymore. That extra vulnerability to the coronavirus means that you can define that group and you can easily define it in the systems, because it is very clear whether you are 70 or not. It is not objective for people to determine whether they have vulnerable health. Of course, it can be done by determining people themselves. But then you actually get into the situation that you should basically make it possible for everyone to vote by letter. Then we will also face implementation problems and a problem of desirability. But let me start with the implementation problems. The period between the day of candidacy, 1 February 2021, and the election day is simply too short to provide all voters with written voting documents on time. Some Members of Parliament have also referred to this: the printing, folding, sending the votes and sending the votes back by the electorate must all fit in with that time limit. We are already talking about a large group, 2.4 million people, for which you should make it possible in principle. You can't increase that any further. Then, of course, there is the fundamental point. I shall say a little more about this later on in connection with questions. But the lettering is a bit of an emergency grip, because you have to weigh it up. We'd like to see the turnout not affected, reduced by the corona virus. For that we accept a little more risk in some parts. That is, of course, the case with letter voices. When you vote in a letter, you don't have a polling room with a voting booth, so you can be sure that the voter himself, without anyone interfering, has colored in on who he or she wants to vote for. You can't do that at the letter vote. I think it is an acceptable risk, precisely because I expect that it is important for that group of people to be able to exercise their right to vote. There will be a lot of 70-plussers who simply rely on the safety of the polling stations, but those who do not will be able to vote and will not be hindered. That is why I think it is an acceptable risk, but only under these circumstances. Under normal circumstances, I think we'd say... We'll evaluate it, so I don't want to anticipate that. But we're really doing it. These are special times, special elections and a special measure. Mr Bishop suggested that the GP should play a role in this. For example, he said that the GP could issue a statement stating that someone has a vulnerable health. My GP knows which party I'm voting for, but that doesn't apply to most of them, of course. There are no secrets to the general practitioner, but the secret of voting is not one of the secrets people share with their general practitioner. Apart from that, I think it's complicated to give this task to general practitioners. General practitioners have their hands full with the care they need to provide. It's not an administrative act they'd like to have. I am therefore not in favour of Mr Bishop's proposal. I understand, but this additional action applies to both the municipalities and the general practitioners, while their primary task is mainly to provide care and not to help make elections possible for everyone. We're looking for other ways. I'll get there in a minute to make sure they can just vote. So we have not considered having a separate application process for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u6	To avoid misunderstandings: I do not ask the GP to investigate which party the patient would vote for. A general practitioner often gives a statement about someone's health. The suggestion was that a municipality could organize that. Why wouldn't you experiment with that? You can use those experiences later. You may be able to embed that at a later stage in a set of election options. So I am not asking the Minister to open it now, but to leave room for a municipality to organise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u7	Okay, it's good that Mr. Bishop adds that. Moreover, I had of course understood Mr Bishop well; I did not think that the general practitioner should be involved in the choice of the electorate. If we had all the time now to think together and make some experiments possible... in the past we have done so with central counting. We will continue to do so, because these experiments have succeeded well. We also looked at another form of the ballot. You want to experiment with that, too. I understand Mr Bishop very well when he asks: couldn't you experiment with this too? So I do not want to rule that out for the future either, in case we ever say to each other that it is a problem for people with vulnerable health how the elections were organised. However, I do not think it would be wise to impose such an experiment on the 17 March elections, which we are already substantially adjusting. I can't guarantee that that's going well on the basis of my responsibility. For those who are concerned by Mr Bishop, there are other possibilities to vote, if they do not want to vote on 17 March. After all, they can choose to vote on Monday or Tuesday. That's something that's never normally possible. For those who are concerned about their own health, we explicitly highlight the possibility of going to the polling stations in peace. I'll get to that in a minute. In addition, there is, of course, the possibility of voting by proxy. We also introduce the possibility of an additional power of attorney. This is also a vulnerability in the process, but I believe it is necessary to prevent people from voting in the end. Mr. Chairman. With that last point, I immediately answer a number of questions that have been asked, namely those of Mrs Kikk, Mrs Özütok and Mrs Van der Graaf. Then what is possible for the other people who are less than 70 and vulnerable? I think the power of attorney and early voting are the answers for them. I also see, and I understand that very well, that people say, "I'm not 70. I've been incredibly careful for nine months now and I'm almost nowhere. Then why would I go to a polling station? Why can't I vote in a letter?" I understand these people. I'd like to respond to them, but we can't make letter voting possible for everyone. These people cannot be identified in our systems and can therefore not be traced to offer them a letter voice. The route through the application is really not possible before the forthcoming elections. So I want to communicate with those people as best I can to bring to their attention that it can be done on Mondays and Tuesdays. That is actually an appeal to all people: just go on Wednesday's 17th votes and show solidarity. If you're just fit and healthy, you're gonna vote 17. And if for any reason you care a little more and just want to have all the rest, then you will vote on Monday or Tuesday. We offer these opportunities in this way. Mrs Van der Graaf also asked if we could have started earlier. I already outlined at the beginning that I think we started thinking about alternatives in time, including the letter vote. That was suggested in May. In September we did so because the Chamber asked for the feasibility and in November we created the possibility. I think that has been the fastest possible trajectory. If you would like to vote even more broadly, then the bottleneck is finally in the day of the nomination and the time between 1 February and 17 March. Well, that's too short. Then we couldn't have made it to March 17th that way. I had indeed recorded the phone line in the documents as something being investigated. I have heard from several Members, including Mrs Van der Graaf, that they think it is important that 70-plussers, i.e. potential letter voters, should be able to put their questions somewhere. Fortunately, I have now been assured that there will be a national telephone line where 70-plussers can indeed turn up with their questions. It's supposed to open that phone line from February 26th. So that's more than enough for the election. Mr Öztürk and others have asked where the letter votes will be cast and when. Let me get this straight. A voter may cast his letter vote as soon as he has all the voting documents, i.e. the ballot card and the ballot note. At that time, the voter also has the envelope for the filled-in letter-voting note.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The voter receives the vote-plus pass between 10 February and 3 March, and the other letter-voting documents come somewhere between 24 February and 11 March. The voter can return the letter by mail, and then he goes to the letter polling office of the municipality. It's on the pre-printed envelope. Or the voter can drop him off at a meeting point. Those issuing points shall be open from Wednesday 10 March. In communication, we will press the voters to put your letter in the mailbox by Friday 12 March at the latest, because we have the confidence that the letter voice will be delivered to the municipality in time. The next few days, you can put him on the bus, but then there's a risk he won't make it. The issue point is until the last day and the last minute of course also still a possibility for the letter tamper. He doesn't have to give it up himself, but can also ask a roommate or someone else to do it, suppose it's someone who's bad on his feet. Mr Bosma asked whether it could eventually lead to more invalid votes. I told you, the voting of letters is more complex than the normal voting in the polling room. I think it is very important that we do everything we can to prevent more invalid votes being cast. There's testing with real people, I'll say, to see if it's understandable enough for the voter. Information will be given on voting by letter. There's gonna be a movie explaining how to do that. The telephone line I just mentioned could also help with that. So we have to do a lot to bring people into how this works. Then there is the question, including Mr Bosma, whether it could affect the outcome. Letter voters can vote sooner. They can vote earlier; that's right. The same applies to the group that is going to vote on Monday and Tuesday. But yes, that has... I mean, there are so many people who have already expressed their minds about their voices, even if they can't release them until the day of the elections. The letter votes will only be counted from Wednesday 17 March and the results will be later. In that respect, I do not expect it to work. Then how do you know your letter voice is coming? That is what Mr Öztürk of Denk asked. You choose: you do it by post or you give your letter voice at the delivery point. Eventually you put it in an envelope at the polling station and drop it off at the drop-off point. But somewhere, it stops and you let go of your ballot. In this way it is transferred to the polling bureau members, who handle our votes and ballots very carefully in the Netherlands. There were some questions about the mail. PostNL is doing an incredible job. They set up a very separate process to ensure that the votes in the letter are handled properly. Mr Van Otterloo and others asked. The return envelope for the letter voice will contain a reply number and codes, which allow PostNL to separate the letter voices from other postal items in the sorting centres. This is all necessary and important to do, so that these postal items can be delivered to the municipalities as soon as possible. PostNL has announced that it will set up a dedicated process for this, I say with a wink to Mr Van Raak. This means that they organise this process extra well, with as few links as possible, so that the chance of errors is reduced, with the use of extra permanent staff, from sorting to delivery to the municipalities, and by checking for machine processing, so manually. In other words: PostNL will cooperate as much as possible in ensuring that we vote on the letter, which we are going to do for the first time in the Netherlands, with each other to a successful conclusion. Mrs Van der Graaf asked whether people could also post a letter on the bus after 12 March. It's possible, but we'll advise you to do that by Friday the 12th. But it's possible. The mail generally arrives neatly on time. But the opinion will be that if you wish to vote in a letter on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, you should have it brought to the issue point or brought there yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u8	Mr Öztürk and then Mrs Van der Graaf.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u9	I find it particularly regrettable that the Minister does not switch to a track-and-trace system, with which you can follow your vote. It is very easy; nowadays almost all companies do so. I am happy that you have spoken to PostNL and that they want to take action, but when you put your voice in a mailbox, you do not know whether it will end up okay. I think that's a very strange feeling for a lot of citizens. Let me give you another example. If we do not get 500,000 or 600,000 out of the 2.4 million votes, then what is our election result worth? What happened to those voices? Who's got them? If we can't explain that to citizens, how are we going to establish an election result?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u10	Every Dutchman sometimes orders something online. You usually get a track-and-trace code, which allows you to see where your package is about. I think that's a fantastic system. But that is a digital system in the opposite direction, not towards me but away from me. I wouldn't want to enter into an experiment with a digital system and something that has to do with elections right now. I think that the discussion with PostNL about the route I just outlined, the care with which they are going to do so in the sorting centres and the speed with which they will act, should be sufficient guarantees. And if a voter really wants to be sure that nothing happens in the trajectory to the place where his voice is counted, then the solution is to go to the issue point, or to ask someone else to do so for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u11	The Minister is taking a great risk by not using a technique which exists and which can be introduced very quickly. This puts the risk that hundreds of thousands of votes will not end up where they belong and that citizens will have to live with the question of whether their voices have ended up there. That's a really big risk. I'm going to table a motion on that anyway. We warned the Minister not to take this risk. We are doing this for the first time and we are talking about 2.4 million letter votes. Something will go wrong with a number of votes. If you do not enter a track-and-trace system, I find the risk too great to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u12	What Mr Öztürk says, we have also looked into. Do you have to want this? Could it be? We've been looking into how it works. You can do it on your own. If you send something registered, it costs eight euros and a few more by letter. If you want extra insurance, you have to add 14 euros. If you want it sent with the emergency service, we are talking about twenty euros per letter. Anyway, it's possible. But is it wise? We work a lot with answering numbers on envelopes. You don't have to put a stamp on it. You can just do it on the bus. That's what we do for banking. We do it for different things that matter to people. It's generally good. I can't guarantee that it's going well for every individual envelope I can't guarantee, but in general it's going very well. I therefore propose not to introduce another vulnerability in this fragile electoral process through an existing but expensive track-and-trace system. I don't think that's necessary. It's not wise to do that. I think it raises more problems than it gives answers. And again, if a voter wants to know for sure, he can go to the drop-off point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u13	The minister says track and trace is an expensive system. I don't know. I want to hear what it costs and what risk she's taking for that money. Almost everyone works with that system. I really don't get it. Even a track-and-trace code is created for a twenty-cent phone cover from China. I do not understand the Minister's opposition and the risk she is taking.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u14	No, I'm fully cooperating. I just outlined the cost of one letter. But it's PxQ, and I don't know how many people are going to vote in letters. I can do the maximum, and then it's going to be 2.4 million times, let's say €30. Then you know the cost about it. But it's not about the cost. It's the principle that matters to me. We need to make sure that what we introduce works. And there has to be an alternative, and that is the issue point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u15	The reason we are paying so much attention to this is that, of course, we do not want to lose a vote. In the words of the Minister: every vote counts. I totally agree with her. I also like the fact that that's the name of the campaign. I understand that the advice is given that if you really want to make sure that the letter voice arrives on time, you have to do it on the bus on Friday. Then you're sure he'll arrive in time. But we know that mailboxes are not always emptied on Saturdays and weekends, and not even always on Mondays. I ask whether the cabinet would like to make arrangements with the postal companies to ensure that the mailboxes are emptied every day in the week preceding the elections, so that every day can be delivered. Maybe someone thinks on Monday: oh, I completely forgot Friday, but I would like to use this way of voting that I am now bidden. If that person does the letter on Monday on the bus, that bus must be emptied and every effort must be made to get that letter to the letter polling office by Wednesday at the latest during the day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u16	I'd like to meet Mrs. Van der Graaf. I'd like to start that conversation with PostNL. I would like to ask the Chamber whether it is not better to do what I propose in terms of communication, namely to say that people should be sensible in the case of letter votes and to vote on the bus by Friday at the latest on the 12th. Then I will ask PostNL to make every effort to get any late letter votes on time at the destination. Letter buses are now emptied from Monday to Friday. So that's also the case on Monday the 15th. I'll start that conversation with PostNL.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u17	Mr. Sneller. I'll take a look at Mrs. Van der Graaf. Were you ready? I saw you having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u18	I think this is a very sensible line. I have already indicated that I do not think it is crazy if it is clearly communicated in advance: if you really want to make sure that your vote arrives on time, then vote on the bus on Friday. But for the people who can't do this, I'm glad the minister is going to consult with the postal companies. I hope that will lead to the agreement that they will empty the mailbox every day the week before the elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u19	Now, of course, the Minister has opened the locks for requests to discuss with PostNL. I think that Mr Öztürk's point goes a little far, but that the underlying concerns can live wider. In the note following the report, I read that an external agency is going to carry out an operational audit on that whole process. It would be good for trust if PostNL were asked to communicate openly about its outcomes, so that everyone could have confidence in that dedicated process.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u20	I'll take that request down, too. I want to give the Chamber another stand in February anyway. Then I can include these aspects.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u21	I have a comment and a question. My comment is that I think the Minister hasn't been to a mailbox for a long time...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u22	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u23	... because the mailbox will not be emptied on Monday. This is because the delivery also does not take place on Mondays. That's one of the problems. It is very good that it is discussed to empty on Saturdays and Mondays. Then the second. With regard to the investigation, there are two souls in my breast. On the one hand, you have to protect privacy and electoral secrecy, but on the other hand, you would like to know how many people have used the right to vote in the letter, and how many people have gone to the ballot box while they could use the right to vote in the letter. Is that somehow getting out of the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u24	After the election, you mean? Oh, yeah. As the ballots look different from the other ballots, we will indeed be able to determine afterwards how many letter votes have been received and how many votes have been cast at the polling stations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u25	I understand that, but this is what's important to me. Can one investigate how many people have waived the possibility of voting a letter and then set the course for the ballot box?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u26	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u27	So one can know what the range is. Does it mean that there hasn't been a 70-plusr in the polling station? Has it led to a higher turnout than would otherwise have been the case?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u28	I need to see if I can reconstruct exactly how many people we delivered it and how many people sent it through the mail. That was one question. We can, of course, reconstruct the other on the basis of the normal course of events. By the way, I know very well where the mailbox is in my neighborhood. I think it will be emptied on Mondays, but it will not be delivered on Mondays. Anyway, we'll see. Maybe it differs from one municipality to another; that could also be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u29	Yes, Mr. Van Otterloo. No, no, it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u30	It was entrapment. Apologies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u31	No. Mr. Van Otterloo, would you please make a point of order about the mailbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u32	I live in a big village called The Hague. We don't empty the mailbox on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u33	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u34	But in Amsterdam it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u35	But that is not the measure of things, as we know, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u36	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u37	I'd love to. Mr Öztürk asked if there was any connection between the voting of letters and the powers of attorney. Actually, there's no connection. A letter vote may only be cast by the electorate who has the documents to do so. No power of attorney may be given or given by means of the letter vote. So there's no connection. Then there is the question of whether the municipalities themselves can decide how many issue points they have voted for letter. The bill provides for one or more places to be designated in each municipality where people can give their letter vote. Indeed, municipalities are free to decide for themselves how many there will be. I have reason to believe that municipalities will use locations that are easily accessible to voters. From 10 March they will be open on working days at least during office hours, i.e. from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. B and W may decide to set wider opening hours. They may also decide to keep termination points open on weekends. The same voting times apply on the day of the vote as for the polling stations, i.e. from 07.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. Then sign the vote-plus pass. It's true that there were voters' questions about signing it. Just like voting by proxy, the voting pass also requires a signature. With that signature, in the case of the voting plus pass, you declare that you have personally completed your own letter ballot. It also states that that is the intention. The following is the case, and it is already the case. If people are unable to sign, the vote still counts. I believe that I have now dealt with most of the points relating to the risks and I would like to move on to early voting. Questions have also been asked about this, albeit less than about the vote in the letter. As far as we are concerned, Monday and Tuesday are indeed special for people at risk. This concerns people who, for whatever reason, have vulnerable health, worry about the virus or prefer not to go to public places, perhaps for months now or perhaps for months now. Early voting is there for those people to create spread and quiet moments in the polling stations. This is how I will bring it to people's attention in communication.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u38	I have a brief point about the previous block. I wondered whether the Minister could comment briefly on the substance of the matter. I understand that it is not possible to arrange that letter vote for everyone in the short period of time there is. In substance, I find it difficult to say: you cannot use the voting secret when you vote in letters, which is why we have the power of attorney option. The same problem is, of course, intertwined in this too. I still find it complicated for people with vulnerable health who want to comply with voting secrecy to make that point substantive in this way. That is why I had made a point of this in my speech. How do we weigh that? I do not really think it is a good argument to say that we are not going to vote for letter in general because it is more difficult to use the secret of voting. That also applies to the other option. So that sheds a little bit. I wondered if you would go into that very briefly, because I missed that in the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u39	I actually had two arguments. One argument was the feasibility and it simply couldn't make it to the date if you could make the letter vote possible on request or for everyone. The other argument has indeed to do with the vulnerability of the electoral process and the weighting that you have to make in it. Ideally, everyone's just gonna vote at the polling station, so you're 100% sure that the voting secret is also the voting secret. Because then you vote in that voting booth. The moment people vote elsewhere, you don't know that. In the case of letter votes, people do so at home and through the power of attorney, people do so through someone else. Then you're not there yourself. So that's a risk weighting and the bigger you make that group, the bigger the risk becomes. I think the risk that we are taking now for the group 70-plus is acceptable. In that case, we cannot have 100% certainty. I agree with Mrs Van Esch that the same applies to those who do not choose to vote on Mondays and Tuesdays, for example because of vulnerable health, but who choose the route of proxy. There too, it is a calculated risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u40	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u41	I say to Mr van der Molen that the communication will be Monday and Tuesday: let us show solidarity with the people who are vulnerable, and there are many of us. There's a lot of people in that risk group who know if they're worried. Let us ensure that they can vote in peace. It is, of course, the case that anyone who reports to that polling station on Monday or Tuesday may vote with the votes, because of course there can be no question of checking the electorate's motives for voting on that particular day. It is accessible to everyone, but that will have to be made clear in communication. Why have a minimum number of voting rooms been chosen for early voting? Mr Van Raak asked that. We have indeed prescribed a minimum number of voting rooms. That's a stairwell: the bigger the municipality, the more of those polling rooms open early. The goal is not to do the same as on Wednesday the 17th, but to create an additional opportunity. Municipalities are free to do more than the minimum required. If you have one municipality but a lot of village centers, Mr.Van Raak mentioned Friesland and Groningen, then you have to look by municipality what is desirable to make it easy enough for those voters. The distribution that we create with this can be important, both in large cities and perhaps also in municipalities with a large geographical area. I understand from Rotterdam, for example, that they intend to open 30 voting rooms on Monday and Tuesday. That there are ten more than is prescribed by law. All other forms, the mobile polling stations, the special polling stations in the healthcare institutions, etc., can also be chosen as a municipality on Mondays and Tuesdays. We simply have no experience of this early vote in the Netherlands. We are doing this for the first time, so it is very difficult for me to predict how many voters will use it and whether it will have exactly the effect that we are aiming at: spreading but a little more slowly on Mondays and Tuesdays. Of course, I cannot predict how many 70-plussers are going to make use of the letter vote. A lot of people are used to going to the polling station, so it may be that many people still want to do so. That's okay, too. It's fine when people do that. It is therefore very difficult to say in advance which of the 2.4 million are going to vote in writing and which of our 70-plussers are going to vote for themselves. Then there is Mr Van Raak's point. He wakes up with a tickle in his throat, a cough and headache on March 17th. I do not allow him to stress this first, but the fact is that we ask a voter with covid-like complaints not to go to work, not to the supermarket and not to go to Grandma. We're asking you to make an appointment to have you tested. That's what we ask everyone. On 17 March we ask that we do not vote ourselves. That's right. That's right. Can you vote then? Yeah, thank God, that's through the power of attorney. That is the alternative for those who are unlucky to be affected by a virus or virus on that day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u42	So if you notice that you have corona symptoms in the morning, you can go to the test street by bike but not by bike to the polling station. That's weird. That's very strange, also because 20% of the people who have corona symptoms, according to RIVM, just goes out. Maybe those people just go to the polling station and the risk of infection is much greater. Then the Minister says: yes, then you can get someone else to vote for you. I think that's mostly theoretical, because then someone has to come to your house, where you're quarantined. Then you need a copy of your ID. So you have to have a copier or a printer. Well, I don't have either. How many people, does the Minister think, are going to do that? You need to call someone to your house while you're in quarantine, get a copier or a printer somewhere and all complicated. That's just not gonna happen! That's not gonna happen. So when you wake up on March 17th morning with a cold, that actually means you can't vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u43	No, that is not the case. Look, we already know the voting system by proxy. A lot of people do. People generally know how to do that. If you have to stay home with disease, we don't know that because there's a risk that you've contracted corona, then all kinds of things have to happen. You might need some groceries. Then you ask someone to deliver it to your door. The same way the messages are transferred, the voting card can also be transferred and a copy can be requested, if that is still to be done. It's a rule, but of course it's possible. There's no practical reason to assume that's not gonna happen. I also find Mr Van Raak's reasoning a little crazy. He says, "People just go into the streets with complaints." Our urgent appeal to people is not to do that. Don't do that, because that puts other people in danger. It is precisely in the elections that we do everything possible to organise it as safely as possible, by maintaining it on the 1.5 metres, by means of hand hygiene, by means of an additional polling station member, which people point out, and by protecting the polling station members with cough screens. It's safe in those polling stations. But if Mr Van Raak here suggests that people with corona can still vote, I find that very bad for people's confidence in safety. I think it is really important that we all radiate that the polling stations are safe. If you are unlucky enough to be ill at that time, please vote with a power of attorney.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u44	It's almost impossible on the same day. Normally, people don't do that on the same day either. When I wake up in the morning with a cold, I can ride my bike to the test street, but I can't ride my bike to the polling station. Can't we just set up a polling station at the test street? Why is it not possible to create drive-through voices, in a tent or in public? Why is it not possible to give a possibility in every municipality to people who have corona phenomena to vote in a place that is designed for that purpose, for example on a test street that has already been set up for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u45	Of course, that sounds like a very good idea. I think that's sincere. But if you feel like you might have something and want to get tested, you'll make an appointment. I cannot predict what that will be like on 17 March, but I believe that the appointment is often for the next day at this time. So that doesn't help Mr Van Raak on March 17, if he can't test until the next day. The second is that we fortunately have a lot of test streets in the Netherlands. But we don't have them everywhere. So I cannot guarantee that every municipality has a test street where a polling station can be organized and where everyone could vote. Although I understand the thought very well, there are really practical objections. One. It is not at all said that you actually have that test on the day you sign up for it, because that goes by appointment. It's been handled very precisely. The testing station says you'll be here tomorrow at 10:15. It's not like you can go to the test street at a time that suits you well, for example early in the morning, because you'd like to know if you have corona. We also need to align a little with the reality that we are living in now, with corona. I would have liked to see it different, too, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u46	I understand all practical objections, but it is a constitutional right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u47	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u48	That constitutional right can only be taken away by the judge, for example, if you are a convicted terrorist. A convicted terrorist may be punished as an extra sentence for the judge to rule that he is not allowed to vote. But if I have a cold on March 17th in the morning, the Minister says stay home. Early voting, early voting, and lettering can't do anymore, and I can't do that theater of those powers of attorney either. So I can't vote. Then that fundamental right has been taken away from me. I'm not a terrorist, I'm an honest citizen who wants to vote. But that's impossible. I know there are practical objections, but it is about voting rights. Have every city make a drive-through, a voice street. Let each municipality create a voice street that is coronaproof and where people who have a cold or corona symptoms in the morning on 17 March can just go.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u49	I keep saying it's really not wise to do that. For people who have complaints there are indeed test streets set up, with all due care, so that there can be no contamination in those test streets either. Mr Van Raak has probably seen what the people who work in these test streets look like. Let's leave it tested for corona where it belongs, with all the circumstances that go with it. We do the voting in other places, under different circumstances. For people who have restrictions due to corona, we introduce a number of other possibilities. That is why we are already in two debates on this subject. So we are introducing a number of other possibilities, including, when it comes to the final point, the ultimate means of giving someone else a power of attorney. I think that we have covered everything up, and that is why we voted, which I like as much as Mr Van Raak, as much as we do in the legislation for the forthcoming elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u50	I would like to go on with this, because I do not think it is entirely hypothetical what Mr Van Raak is describing. I think it can very well happen. I myself sometimes gave someone a power of attorney because I could not cast my vote on the day itself. I live in Groningen and I had to be here in The Hague for my work. That's when I took care of it a few days earlier. But not everyone feels comfortable asking the neighbor or the neighbor to cast a proxy vote. Maybe you want to do that in a trusted circle, but you don't have your family living around the corner, making it even more complicated and it's practically impossible on the day itself. So I really don't think it's hypothetical. I also hear the Minister reacting, and I think it is wise not to give the impression that there are all those who complain about entering a voting room on election day. We wouldn't want that. But we do want people to have the opportunity to vote. And for those who cannot have that power of attorney, it is not a bad idea to give more space to drive-through polling stations and to polling stations in the open air with the experience of today's elections. I also see in the response of the Minister, in the written input and in the reactions of the VNG and the mayors that there is plenty of scope to set up these polling stations in other special ways. Is it then an idea that we ask the Minister to consult with the mayors and the municipalities to at least make one location available in each municipality to set up such a drive-through voting office, or such a ballot street, as Mr Van Raak calls it? Does the Minister wish to discuss with them whether that is possible without rejecting it right now? Because I think this is a real point. It would not be good if these people would not be able to vote on election day.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u51	No, I understand. Once again, I would also like to thank everyone for not having this problem on 17 March. I get that it's not nice if on that day you have to do all the practicalities about giving someone else a power of attorney. But what Mrs Van der Graaf is asking, and what Mr Van Raak is suggesting, namely to organise such a drive-throughtest street in every municipality, is quite organizationally complex. Then you ask even more of municipalities, which have actually already said to us: we can do this; you already ask a lot of us. We are now in the second wave of corona. At present, about 50,000 to 60,000 tests per day are carried out. Of course, I cannot rule out that this is still the case, but let us hope that it is a lot less. That's a lot of people, but if you spread that across all the municipalities in the Netherlands and all the Dutch people, it's not about huge numbers, which you have to create a huge logistics circus for, while there's also an alternative to it. So again, I take it very seriously and we have also really discussed it with the VNG: could it? We have explored all the possibilities for this, and we have come to the conclusion that, in these elections, in these circumstances and in this already complex preparation of the elections, it is an excessive burden and that it is not feasible. So we will bring to the attention of the people the alternative, for which we have also made this additional power of attorney possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u52	Then I'll try one more time, because it's already happening. This has already been deployed in many places in the country, including during the reclassification elections. The minister himself made a support team from her ministry available to municipalities, and the best practices are there. Is the Minister prepared to enter into further discussions on this subject, hear the debate and hear the situations that we can all imagine and which can happen to us all? In March the R is still in the month. It could happen to all of us, and it would be a shame if voices were lost because people have a runny nose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u53	That's what I want to do. There must be no loss of voices. People must be given the opportunity to vote in one way or another. I understand that Mrs Van der Graaf is again trying to bring it to the attention of the House. But what we are discussing here today and what you are voting on in the end is what we are going to do. The congregations have asked me and you not to let them do any more than this, because they can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u54	Please continue. How far have you come with your response?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u55	I'm in the total answer halfway. The results will not be announced earlier, I say to Mr Van Otterloo. For a second there, I thought he was suggesting that in his input. Votes issued on Mondays and Tuesdays can only be counted on Wednesdays. This can be done on that Wednesday from 7.30 p.m. or from the time the college determines in the municipality. If a polling station has already finished counting the letter votes, the result will not be published. That is only allowed after the ballot boxes are closed, so it is only after 9 p.m. So we don't want results to get out while people are still voting. Early voting therefore has no effect on voting.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u56	Very briefly, Mr. Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u57	Yes, very briefly. What I was concerned with was that that count is public and that the risk is reduced as much as possible that that count becomes known before the other ballot boxes are closed. It's about the people who can access it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u58	I think it's obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u59	Counting is public, but the results aren't published.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u60	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u61	Then everything that has to do with the organisation, the number of polling stations, volunteers and so on. Let's start with the volunteers. We need a lot of polls and counters. If you put it all together, it's 70,000 to 80,000 voters and counters. Everything we do extra, including the early voting and counting of letter votes, makes for additional actions. That's all human work. So we need a lot of people. In addition, we must also take account of last-minute outages due to quarantine, disease and so on. So we also need a reservoir of polling station members who can be flown in last minute. We are now adopting a directive of about 10%. That is why we started the national recruitment campaign on 30 November. We have also arranged for state officials to be able to work at polling stations without having to take leave of absence. Last week, the number of applications was the central number of applications, i.e. via the website elkstemtelt.nl at 25,000. That is a very nice and hopeful result. In addition, today's message is that we will also use maximum MBO students in consultation with the MBO Council. This applies across the board: from the construction and dismantling of the polling stations to counting and polling stations. I'm incredibly happy about that. What I do not have any idea at the moment is how much has entered the municipalities themselves. There are municipalities that are already reporting and saying they have plenty of people. That's very nice, but that doesn't apply to all the municipalities. And even to these municipalities, I say: go on for a while, because think of the 10% and the fact that people can stop. So I ask them to keep doing their best and to take care of enough people. So, on the basis of the way things are going, I am in a positive mood, but it keeps my full attention. In January, I will assess the situation of the municipalities and what else we need and can do. They also asked whether enough young people had been reached. I think we have seen with the MBOs that young people are certainly willing to help. This also means that there will be new arrivals for the polling stations. I thought that Mr Van der Molen asked for this and that we will soon have a whole reservoir of voters who have already experienced it once and who will hopefully be motivated by all the other elections to come forward to join and help. Mr Van Otterloo asked about the speed tests for the polling station members. He's drawn attention to that before. I said at that time that I would very much like to monitor with the VWS colleague how we could make use of the opportunities that exist in the coming months. But it is about a large group of people, of course, completely scattered across the country. So it is again a very large logistical operation to make it possible for all polling stations and all polling stations. Again, I promised. I'm gonna do that, too. We'll keep an eye on it and see what we can do with those quick tests and what we could do with the election. I'd love it if I could, but I can't say I can. What I can say is that we can never force it. Giving voters the opportunity is one thing, but we can never say we have to. Quick tests should not, just as vaccination should not. That's the other side of the story. Of course, they are asked to do the regular health check. He has also tabled an amendment to that effect. It's not an obligation, as far as I'm concerned. The only national policy we have is: have you tested for complaints. The same applies to members of the polls. But again, I'm gonna follow those developments around the quick tests and see what's possible. I have to advise against the amendment. I would like to look at the number; that is the amendment to item No. 9. Then the polling stations, another point. First the polls, now the polls. If there are enough, Mrs Özütok and others asked. The municipalities are really working very hard on it. Really compliments on that. It's got all the attention. There are also very nice initiatives, also from the government, the provinces and the waterboards. They make their offices available. Branch associations, shipping companies, health insurance companies, car parks: all kinds of places are presented as possible suitable. I'm very happy about that. In the end, the municipality must decide which premises are suitable and which are not. It was also about drive-through voice rooms. This is certainly looked at in the municipalities. We have seen it with enthusiasm, but it has been very limited. But that's what's being looked at now. It is nice that municipalities do so and that they take sufficient account of the spread. For Mr Van Raak asks me in every debate whether I can guarantee that there will be no fewer voting rooms. I agree with him. It would have such a bad look if there were fewer polling stations due to corona. I believe that the number of voting rooms should be maintained. I also welcome the motion on that point which calls for it. I've informed the mayors about that. I'll keep an eye on that. I will also repeat that poll in January. Then I will inform the Chamber at the beginning of February.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u62	Thanks to the Minister for doing her best to get some more polling stations in municipalities but also in other institutions. That last point made by the Minister was precisely my question. When can she inform us about this? Could that be the end of January, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u63	I'll do the poll in January. My intention was to inform the Chamber in February. I can imagine that the President also thinks that this should be for the election recess. So I'm gonna say that one way or the other: as soon as possible. Mrs. Chicken of the Labour Party asked about the schools. I did indeed send a letter to all the school boards together with Mr Slob. Mr Slob also consulted the umbrella organisation. I think they also say: "Let's leave it a little decentralised too. So don't try to lay everything down from above and think about it. We schools must also look carefully at what is possible." This is done locally, in consultation between municipalities and school boards. In consultation with Mr Slob, but also with the PO Council and the VO Council, we have drawn up a guide: schools as voting rooms. We've discussed it with them, too. They'll find them useful, too. We are trying to be as helpful in this dialogue as possible, but I am confident that the municipalities can get out together with the school boards. Again, it is important that we have enough alternative locations if schools may not be available for good reasons. We're helping with that again with a support team of polling stations. Mr Bishop asked about the opening hours of special polling stations. Firstly, and that is also the lesson of the reclassification elections: there is indeed a need for this type of polling stations. The experience of these reclassification elections shows that it is not necessary to do so for a very long period of time. It doesn't make much sense to do it very early in the day. So those lessons from those re-organisational elections are being learned and drawn. The municipalities make arrangements with the health care institutions and that is really customization. The size of the polling rooms and the counting, that was also a lesson from the reclassification elections. Quite simply: if a polling room is too small to count too, so that you can vote with walking routes but counting is too complicated.Of course you need a lot of people for that. Then we need to count at a location that's big enough. That can be done, and this law makes it possible to ensure that low regulation rules are laid down on how these voting documents are transported to another location and so on. You should then think of compulsory separate transport of the key to the ballot box, minutes and the ballot box itself, in which transport is carried out by at least two persons. Such matters are all regulated by lower regulation. Mr Sneller asked about the suspension of the session. Of course, polling stations should not close unnecessarily early. You can't ever do that. Voting stations are just open from 07.30 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Wednesdays, and also Mondays and Tuesdays, because those are the same times. That possibility of suspension is only intended for counting. If you find that members of the polls have become so tired, that you can reasonably no longer do that process carefully, then as chairman, even after consulting the mayor again, you would be able to suspend the hearing in order to continue it the next day. That's what it's meant for. Then the transparency of counting. Yeah, that's important. Mrs Özütok asked about it. It's open to everyone, but yes, it has to be at 1.5 meters. That's what we're dealing with right now. After counting, the municipalities must publish all records on the internet, which we have made mandatory for a year. That did not go well in the elections last year, so we need to keep a very close eye on that and we need to learn from it. The plenary sessions of the main polling stations and of the Central Voting Office, i.e. the Election Board, are also open to the public. This bill also stipulates that sessions should be broadcast on the Internet and that voters can also participate in and possibly raise concerns in a digital environment. In addition, the minutes of the main polling offices and the central polling office should also be published on the Internet. As far as the central counting experiment is concerned, I do not know yet, as I say to Mr Sneller, how many municipalities participate in it. The municipal councils must of course agree and that is not yet clear in all municipalities. My expectation is now that about 35 municipalities will be involved. Finally, financial compensation. Based on the 2013 data, we have calculated that the elections are normally about 43 million. But, of course, that's different now. For this I also had extensive consultations with the VNG and in September I already agreed with the VNG to provide an additional 30 million. At that time it was mainly about alternative locations, the layout of the polling rooms and that sort of thing. Then I added 22 million in the December circular, for example for postage, letter votes and that sort of thing. That's a pretty big estimate, that's my estimate. So I believe that the municipalities are quite well prepared with this compensation, but of course we will also look at it. I heard one of the members say they have clues that this is not experienced by every congregation. Well, here's what we agreed, but, again, the money for the election we're just making available. That is not something we are negotiating endlessly, because it must not be a lack of resources.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u64	I had also noticed that it is very nice that aid is being offered from all over the country by all kinds of organisations, but they sometimes address us as Members of Parliament with the question of who they can report to. So I also have the explicit question of who is coordinating it. I understand very well that the municipalities are ultimately involved, but some coordination could help. Where can they report in?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u65	When it comes to practical matters such as polling stations and so on, does Mr Van Gent mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u66	Yeah, and also volunteers, for example, in terms of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u67	Oh, yeah, the volunteers. So that's what this website is for. Anyone can volunteer there. You can do that in your own municipality. The same is true for people with ideas about polling rooms. This can also be done by the municipality, but it could also be done by us, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because we also have a central team that helps to provide sufficient voting rooms. So there are two options. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u68	Are there a lot of them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u69	If you can give me another 15 minutes, I'm all set.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u70	Fifteen minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u71	Yes, of course, that depends on the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u72	I don't think they're too bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u73	I agree. That will be up to your Presidency, and there is no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u74	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u75	I just wanted to comment on the questions that were asked about if we were in a lockdown in March as we are now. I don't know. I can't anticipate that. I'm hopeful. I think what we're doing right now is what's getting us to control that virus. Of course, you can see through your eye hair. You can make the comparison with spring. There are good reasons to expect and equally cautiously optimistic around mid-March, but careful, because I don't know. That is why I think it is so important to do everything in my power to ensure that those elections can continue in corona time. That's what we're doing, and that's why this law is so important. So the question makes sense, but I can't really answer it. I can only say that we will do everything we can to ensure that the elections can continue. Mrs Van Esch went into that a little more in depth. She asked if we could not take some more time, because then we might have held the elections preventively a little later or something like that. But I also think that's crazy. I do not think it is necessary or desirable to postpone the elections even at this time. I really think it's my job to make sure we do everything we can to keep them going in a safe way. I believe that these measures are necessary for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u76	We all think it is desirable that they just continue, but I have asked questions about "stel; what if...?" In the answers to the questions during the written round of questions, the Minister indicated that until two days before the elections, additional rules could be established by ministerial regulation. That is quite something, because it is actually a kind of open-ended agreement that we are about to agree to. How far can that go? Can the Minister say one or two days in advance: things are getting so out of hand with this corona, the elections are simply not going to happen on 17 March? Or can there be any other major changes and how far does that go? How am I supposed to imagine that? Because the minister is giving himself a huge blow to the arm.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u77	There are two things: let me see if I can convince Mr Bosma on that point. The second point he makes is that he says: you're actually giving yourself a kind of carte blanche before that election. But that is not what is proposed here at all. The temporary law provides a basis for ministerial rules on hygiene measures and personal protective equipment in voting rooms. They were also used in the reclassification elections. These are actually the usual rules we're using now, so the cough screens, disinfecting the hands and so on. There are also the masks for the members of the polls, how you provide assistance to people who need help and that sort of thing. So this is not really meant as a carte blanche, as Mr Bosma has read it, but as a defined basis for those hygiene rules. Suppose the general rules would be changed. Then this is where the hook is made to make that adjustment before the election. I cannot imagine what measure we would take together on top of the hands, the mouth caps and so on. But, yeah, just because I can't think of it doesn't mean it doesn't happen, and then luckily it can. The other side of Mr Bosma's question, which is a more fundamental question, is: what if? I'm just saying, I don't know. I can't predict that. We're doing everything we can to make sure it can go on. But if the situation surrounding the virus and the epidemiological developments were to require us to consider it, it would of course have to be a joint decision of the cabinet and parliament. There's no other way. A postponement of the elections requires the assent of the Chamber. That also requires a law. That's what the Constitution says. In the first letter I sent to the Chamber in the spring, I have already been very open about it. I said: that is very undesirable and we do not hope for any of that. But in the end, in the worst case scenario, that's what you should be seeing each other. We have also seen in other countries that this has happened. So I cannot rule that out, but we must do everything we can to prevent it from happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u78	My fear, on the basis of the answers to the questions put by GroenLinks, is that two days before the elections the Minister can still come up with a ministerial arrangement which will make it possible to achieve a far-reaching settlement, and I am not talking about masks or cough screens, which will change the way the elections are held, is therefore unfounded.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u79	Yes, Mr Bosma can really rest assured of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u80	Mr Van Otterloo. No? You're just a little bit in the picture, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u81	So one thing is very clear: with this law there are no hooks to keep the election on another date. If that happens, it'll come back to the Chamber with a bill to act like this. It is also not covered by the COVID-19 Emergency Act. We're dealing with an orderly bill here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u82	Yes, ideally indeed with an orderly bill. But you know that an orderly legislative proposal also takes time, namely at least a few weeks, and that is, of course, very quickly. What if we said together that it was not justified from a health point of view and that it was only very shortly before the elections? We say: you can't reasonably expect people to come. Then that just affects the turnout. In that case, the legitimacy of the elections is also at stake. That could, of course, be shown very shortly in advance. Again, I hope not. But that is something we need to discuss and organise here, also in a legally responsible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u83	I think it is very good that we are taking that decision here in Parliament and we are not being told by the media that the elections will not continue. That's very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u84	Listening well is also an art.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u85	Oh, yeah. That's why I'm doing this interruption. But has the Minister also prepared an emergency scenario? Suppose we have too few people at the polling stations on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday at one time. There are municipalities that say: we can't open polling stations. Do you have people standing by? Have you spoken to the Defense Department or are there any other official services that some people have found willing to go to these municipalities to open those polling stations? I want to talk about those emergency scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u86	If we were to find out together that we should ask Defence to stand by the polling stations, then perhaps that is when we should look at each other and see if it is still wise to hold elections. That might have a very bad look. I think we're all hoping that this emergency isn't going to happen. But having enough people is indeed very important. That's why I'm going to say to the congregations until the end: provide a reservoir of at least 10% of people you can use. You could also imagine that, if there's a little more outage in a certain part of the country than elsewhere, you'd be looking at how to fix that. But we do have to organize it so well that it is not an obstacle on election day and the two days before that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u87	Are you going to round up a little bit? I expect more proposals.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u88	I come to another point where there may be a single interruption: the exit polls. It's a bit different, that's my impression. I've agreed to speak to the polls, to the polls. That's what I'm gonna do. They've already been contacted through the department. I made an appointment to consult with them in early January. I can tell you that's gonna be online. We have a large number of polling stations in the Netherlands. They're used to working in a certain way. I would like to say that my first commitment is to ensure that they can do their normal work, even now that the polling stations are being redesigned. There must be sufficient polling stations, chosen by themselves, where they can carry out their polls. This needs to be taken into account in the walkways. I think it's all gonna work out. The second point is: when are the exitpolls coming? We do not really have any rules for this in the Netherlands. I think that's fine and we shouldn't do it this time. I assume that will be my commitment to the conversation that the polling stations do not publish exit polls before Wednesday 9 p.m., as is the case now. That is not to prohibit it; that is not my commitment at all. I think that can be dealt with very well in the conversation with them. I am confident that this will be supported by them. That is why I am not in favour of Mr Van Raak's amendment. I told you, we have a tradition that we don't have any rules for that. Some countries do, such as Spain, Greece and Turkey. The amendment says that you may hold polls and do exit polls, but explicitly forbids the publication of the results thereof. I think that's quite a limitation of their role. The question is whether this containment is proportional and enforceable. Is there really an urgent need to make legal agreements on exit polls for these elections, which we are indeed doing differently than usual? Or can we just make an appointment and say: don't do exit polls on Mondays and Tuesdays, because that is a completely random group of voters; just do it on Wednesdays? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the support statements.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u89	Two things can actually happen. One. The Minister makes a good appointment with the polling stations and says: we're going to do it for those three days as we always do. Then the amendment is, to say the least, superfluous. Two. I can't. Then we will have an influence, which the Minister also says we should not want. Then the amendment is a codification of a standard that we had in fact already unwritten.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u90	It is indeed an unwritten appointment. It's actually the practice. There is no legal or otherwise written record on this issue. My commitment is really focused on self-regulation. My bet is, let's do what we always do. That means Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. exit polls. That's the stakes of the conversation. Mr Van Raak says: it is the setting of the standard. But by setting the standard, we go much further than we've ever done in the past, because then we'll settle it legally. Once again, I am not in favour of this, not only for reasons of principle, but also because I think we have noticed that it is not working so well abroad. We know the situation in France. That's where it's being bypassed. What cannot be done in France is published on the Internet sites in Switzerland. Then it has very little effect, I think. I do not know exactly what we are doing with the ban. Voters can be informed in all kinds of ways. A lot of information flows continue, even when you would impose a legal ban on this. I'm really not in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u91	I fully agree with the Minister. Its commitment is self-regulation by the agencies themselves. Is it prepared to inform us of this in the same letter about the polling stations following the discussions?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u92	That is actually a very good suggestion from Mrs Özütok. Let me agree with the Chamber that after the meeting in mid-January I will inform the Chamber of 14th or 15th, I do not know the date by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u94	On the statements of support, there was a question from Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, and I also believe that there is an amendment, which I do not have the number for a moment. Her suggestion is to ensure that video meetings can be held for making statements of support. I understand that, and it is also good in itself if new opportunities are sought on behalf of new parties, but I must nevertheless discourage the amendment. The deadline for making the declarations of support starts very soon, on 4 January. It is really not feasible to organise this legally and practically for that time. My main point is actually that I don't think it's necessary, because I already got the signal. I have sent a letter to all the mayors saying that they must organise their trial carefully, so that there must be people who know what it is about, expert people, and that also those who come without an appointment... It was also about making an appointment first. No, it's not. You just need to be able to report to the counter and there the statement of support must be arranged by the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u95	But that doesn't solve the big problem that there may soon be 80 new parties that each have to ask almost 600 people, each individually... From the last election I remember very romantic stories: we went to the market with a van, got in together and then went to the town hall to sign all those statements. But, yeah, it can't be anymore. We're gonna have to ask everyone individually to come to City Hall. The hard lockdown at least lasts until January 19th. You're not gonna ask people in a hard lockdown to leave the house for signing a support statement, I guess. This is already very difficult and difficult for us to vote on. That is what we are talking about this whole debate, so let alone a declaration of support. There is by chance already an arrangement in the Temporary Law COVID-19, Article 26, for example, for an act to be signed in the presence of the notary. I set up my amendment exactly like this. It is quite similar to the system that has been put in place. Why doesn't the Minister want to see if that's possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u96	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen points out that we are now in this lockdown, which makes it extra complicated. I agree with her. We all experience the consequences of this in all kinds of ways, especially with 80 new parties. I didn't know there were 80, but I take Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's word for it. If you want to start a new party and participate in all the constituencies, you must have nineteen times 30 signatures. That's a lot. If you count the Antilles as well, I think it's 580 signatures. On the other hand, it is about a limited number of people per municipality. The town halls, the offices of town halls, are excluded from the lockdown. People who have to take care of something there can just do it. That's a legitimate reason to leave your home, do these actions coronaproof and go home. It does require some additional explanation, but there are no practical obstacles to doing so. There are practical obstacles to doing what Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen asks in her amendment, because it is really impossible to change the law before then and to organise it in the municipalities. Again, the letter to the mayors is very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u97	That is why I have included a Member with whom this regulation has retroactive effect. In this way, support statements can be collected throughout the month, from 4 January to 1 February. At the time of entry into force of this supplementary law, they shall be valid retroactively.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u98	Again, I appreciate Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's attempt. In order to meet her and others who have come to me with this problem, I have ensured a careful process. All municipalities are aware of this, so that it is possible for those who are setting up new parties and want to participate in the elections along that route.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yes, finally, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u100	The Minister has already extended the application period from two to four weeks. That's not for nothing. This means that it is particularly difficult at this Corona time to obtain the necessary number of declarations of support. Then it is also so that it was before the Minister decided to extend the application period that we are now in a hard lockdown. That makes it even harder. If you assume that we can relax on 19 January, you have just over 10 days left to collect the statements of support in the manner indicated by the Minister. Maybe that's feasible, but maybe it's not. That is a real defect in this election. Then, for all these new parties, you set a huge threshold for interfering in the democratic process as we set it up in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u101	I understand the concern and I also like the fact that Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is showing herself to be the person who is watching the affairs of new parties and the people who are working on them. But the lockdown itself is not an obstacle. It is not the case that we have to wait and see exactly what is happening on 19 January to ensure that these declarations of support can be made at the town halls. You can do that now. They are open and excluded from the lockdown rules. It is vital that that process can continue. It is also important that new parties explain this to those who are going to give a statement of support. So they can just go to the window for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u102	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u103	Mr Bosma rightly drew attention to the abuse of powers of attorney. That risk already existed and it continues to exist with two to three powers of attorney. I think it is very good to emphasise here once again that abuse of the power of attorney, for example recruitment, is punishable. It's not allowed. That is also clearly stated on the voting card. If there are signs of recruitment or other forms of abuse, they will be investigated. That's incredibly important. In the run-up to the elections, I will also discuss this with the Public Prosecutor's Office. It's not allowed. I have already undertaken to give the Chamber the final state of play by the beginning of February at the latest. With regard to the evaluation of the elections, as with any election, we are going to evaluate them. And now we do that even more thoroughly because of all the news. I expect the Court to have the results of the evaluation by June at the latest. I say to Mr Sneller that international observation missions are supposed to be present at our Lower House elections. The OSCE has already expressed its wish to be present with an observation mission. I have already said something about the ministerial regulation on the storage, transport and the like of ballots. That arrangement will be in consultation next week. After consultation, the scheme is established and published and can enter into force at the same time as the law. That is the normal procedure for establishing a system. Mr Bosma asked about the masks. I have already said in another debate that wearing a mask is mandatory in the voting room. There are the same rules as for other public places. A voter who arrives without a mouth cap will be asked by a member of the polling bureau to put on a mouth cap. Exceptions for people who cannot wear a mask for medical reasons apply there, of course, as everywhere. Only in the extreme, so if a voter does not give up a medical reason and knowingly ignores the rules, he or she could be refused entry. Mr Bishop asked about the use of enforcers. In principle, the polling station itself is responsible for and also capable of maintaining order within the voting room, but it can indeed call for assistance if necessary. That's a responsibility of the municipality. In consultation with the municipalities and with the ministry of JenV we will see if there are any special circumstances in relation to enforcement that require additional measures. So we're gonna keep a close eye on that. I say to Mr Öztürk that we have not considered voting online, not even with DigiD. The voting secret is very important. People need to be able to vote strictly anonymously. There must be no relationship between your voice and anything else in a system. So we don't want to vote online, in any way. Mr Van Gent asked for attention to be paid to the blind and visually impaired. It is true that, apart from these specific elections, this has been the focus of attention for some time now. At least we have the mold and audio support that can be used. We have seen in previous elections that relatively few voters make use of this. We are going to see if municipalities can work together a little better now that we also have several days to vote on. That might be interesting for this group, too. I am also talking to the eye associations to see if there can be more attention to this, so that people know that these possibilities exist. Then we can organize that a little more centrally. This point has been highlighted. I have a question from Mr Bosma, but I believe Mr Van der Molen spoke about it. It's about OSV and its control. I have already informed your Chamber that I have asked the Election Board and the municipalities to develop a proposal to check whether OSV has worked correctly in adding votes and thus in calculating the result. That proposal must be made in mid-January. So if I do inform the Chamber about all the other points, I will also be very happy to inform the Chamber about them. Then it is also clear how this control is going to be carried out and where it is going to be done. The Election Council also carried out such a check during the reclassification elections on 18 November and then found that the OSV had worked correctly. But I would like to come back to that in January or February. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the age limit for members of the polls. Excuse me, I should have dealt with this question earlier. Members of the polls must be 18 years of age or older. Tellers too, because they are alternate members of the polling bureau and therefore also apply to them the age of majority. That age limit is also laid down in the law. This does not mean that 18-minners cannot be involved at all, because, for example, they can play a role in building a polling station. By the way, by far the majority of Mbo'ers are 18-plus. Mr President, thank you. That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u104	Thank you. Then we have had the first term from the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-12-17-tweedekamer-6.u105	I actually want to have a short suspension so that we can do a detailed work arrangement in between. Then we move on to the second term of office and government. Yeah? I shall now suspend the sitting for a few moments.
