ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u1	I welcome everyone, the MPs, the staff, the people in the public gallery and in particular the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport. The next item is the increasing waiting lists for nursing homes. I actually wanted to give Mrs Agema the floor as the first speaker at the moment, but she is at the interrupting microphone. I therefore assume that she has a point of order. Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last weekend, Mrs Laan-Gezelschap of the VVD suggested that we should receive the report of the Committee on the Future of care for elderly people living at home earlier, prior to this debate. The report will be presented this afternoon. A majority of the House supported that proposal. Then there was a letter from the minister stating that he was not going to do so. And it is a great pity, Mr President, that we cannot use that information in the debate we are about to have. I'd like to ask the Minister if he's seen the report yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u3	Yeah, but that's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u4	Yes, because if he's seen it, I'd like to receive it before we start as House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u5	So basically it's about you getting the contents of the report...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u6	Well, if the minister hasn't seen it yet, I can live with all this being trained. But if the Minister has understood it, then I do not want to lag behind in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u7	Okay. I will give the Minister the floor very briefly. You don't have to get up, Minister. You can press the microphone button in box K for you. I do not want a discussion to take place, but the Minister can respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u8	The report will be presented to me this afternoon. As a result of the committee's question, I submitted it to the chairman of the committee, Mr Bos. Mr Bos has indicated to me that it is not possible to speed up the process, including going to the printer and so on, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u9	I'd like to leave it at that. No, no discussion, Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u10	I asked him if he'd seen it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u11	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u12	In preparation for the meeting I had with Mr Bos this afternoon, I saw a draft of the report. That's not the final report.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u13	Okay. Yes. Thank you. Mrs Agema has the floor. She speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr President, what a situation! Information is being withheld from us. The Minister has already seen it. And now, for the sake of form, we can have our debate here, while it is on a subject as important as the huge increase in waiting lists for nursing homes. It's a disgrace! No one here should accept that the Minister has already seen a report when we have not yet seen it, and that we should now be lagging behind in this debate. 18,000 very severely ill patients are on a waiting list for a nursing home. There are 500 very severely ill patients every month. The current prospective nursing home resident is not comparable to the resident of a former nursing home. The prospective nursing home resident is now a very sick patient who is bedridden and needs to be nursed. It does not matter, therefore, that our Minister is playing down the fact that there are only 1,500 acute cases. 1,500 is a lot, by the way. But if you as a prospective nursing home resident simply want to live in the house where, for example, your brother or your sister lives, or in the nursing home in your own village, then it is not a choice if you are removed from that acute list if you are such a severely ill patient. Mr. Chairman. The actual number of waiting people is many times higher. I want to know from this minister how many Wlz indications there are for the nursing home for people who don't live in a nursing home. He can indicate how many people have a vpt, or a modular package at home. He can report that. But how big is the list really? Because once you're listed, you're gonna pay your own contribution. So there are people waiting to be placed on that list, because they cannot pay that own contribution. So the real list is much longer. Mr. Chairman. I have the impression that a sense of urgency is just beginning to emerge. The Minister writes in his letter that he meets the commitment to give me an insight into the construction plan for the next fifteen to twenty years, with that TNO report. However, that number of 164,000 additional nursing homes in 2040 that are needed is only a rough estimate of TNO. And there's not even a building registration yet. What is the stage at the moment? Follow-up studies, inventories, mapping of cases, identification of needs by region and the impact of trends. And there is also a lot of pointing the finger at municipalities, regions, housing corporations, healthcare providers and so on. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is even referred to. But there is not yet a beginning to a sketch of what needs to be done. 2040 is short notice in that respect. So the solution is actually very simple. Follow up on the commitment already made in my direction to chart the construction plan for the short term, for the next 15, 20 years, and really go ahead with a plan. Stop pointing the finger at everyone and everything. There must be a concrete plan. There must also be direction from the Minister. He must stop pointing the finger at others. There must be an indication of how many nursing homes in which region should be organized and regulated by this Minister. Mr. Chairman. I am very surprised when I read in pieces that, when there are 10,000 missing places for asylum seekers in azc's, there is suddenly rapid action. Then we see large, luxurious renovations, in Gilze for 1,200 places and in Maastricht for 650 places. No, when it comes to newcomers, when it comes to happiness seekers, when it comes to people who don't have anything to look for here, places are created. But when it comes to elderly people, people who are seriously ill and people who are in their death stages who need nursing and care, nothing really happens. Then we're in some kind of pre-stage or inventory phase. Then nothing is even known about the registration of buildings, the volume that is now there, or what really needs to be realized in which region. Mr. Chairman. I asked what problem is being solved earlier: the shortage of 10,000 places for those azc's, or this shortage of 18,000 places for elderly people in a very serious and serious situation. I know the answer, and I'm deeply ashamed of it. I am deeply ashamed to live in a country where our elders are the child of the account.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mrs Agema. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have spoken with this minister earlier about closing small-scale nursing homes in the town of Montfoort. There's places disappearing out there. At the moment, at a stage where we have a huge need for additional nursing home places that are going to double in the coming years, and so it is unthinkable that places disappear, there are places in one of those small-scale places that we all want so much. The same thing happens in Oentjerk, in Friesland. Places on a small-scale location simply have to go, according to the healthcare provider because it is no longer profitable. And don't forget: this location was only opened in 2014. She's only been there five years. And yet she has to close again. What does the Minister think about us forcing old people with dementia to move from a small-scale place, just as I think we all want, which was put down only five years ago? Mr. Chairman. The Minister said, "Grandma needs to know something about my policy." Well, Grandma's noticing something about this minister's policy. Grandma has to live at home longer and longer, even if she can't do it anymore. Grandma's on the waiting list longer if she wants to go to the nursing home. And if grandma has to go to a nursing home, she gets offers for locations up to 100 kilometers away. That is today's practice. That's what we're dealing with. My question to the Minister is what he will do about it. How is he gonna let this happen? In my view, this Minister does not want to intervene at all in the problem we are discussing today, the shortages in nursing care. It is a choice or a decision of the healthcare provider. Corporals have to jump in. Municipalities have to figure out what the need is. The care office has to take care of it. We're gonna ask commercial real estate guys to fix up beautiful buildings and rent them out to the elderly for a lot of money to make money on them. This Minister announces new investigations. He's gonna keep track of how many places there are. That's something. But where are the measures? Where are the measures that are going to ensure that we get many thousands of extra places in nursing care in the coming years? I don't see them. I can't hear them. I don't think they're here. How does he respond to the statements made by Doekle Terpstra, who has said in recent days that we need to work much more together and that we need to get rid of the competition in healthcare? Care providers also opt for "own toko first" in nursing home care. It's "own toko first." We have talked about this in the context of youth care. In care for the elderly, it's exactly the same. We need to strengthen cooperation there. Mr. Chairman. Friend and enemy now agree that this minister is doing far too little. One of the main problems is that healthcare providers dare to take little risk. They have become fully responsible for the financing of their own real estate and do not dare to make large investments. So my question to the Minister is whether he is prepared to come up with additional guarantee schemes so that the healthcare providers who invest in new construction, renovation and building new places get extra guarantees so that we can go against the waiting lists. Why does he only look at the commercial parties that buy old monasteries and castles and then rent it for €1,500 per month to the elderly, who then get care through such a home package? Why is that the only model he's looking at? Why doesn't he come out of his own chair? Is he prepared to impose a ban on the sale of care property, so that we put a brake, a stop on the sale of precious places that we need so badly? Mr. Chairman. We do not feel at all that this Minister has just begun to realise the scale of the problems. There are the general practitioners, who have to spend hours with the elderly because they can't go anywhere. For example, there are hospitals and hospitals where people actually need a sheltered place like we had in a nursing home, for example, but unfortunately they have been abolished by the PvdA and the VVD. The old nursing homes that are closed have to go back. Thousands of elderly people are living at home right now when it's not really working anymore. We are not even talking, as Mrs Agema says, about the people who already have an indication, but about the group that is even before and wants to live in a sheltered environment. Why don't those places come? What is the Minister going to do to help these people? Where's his own responsibility? That's how I want to ask him. When does he take the head out of the sand and go to work instead of always pointing fingers at others? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Thousands of people are waiting in the Netherlands for a place in the nursing home. These elderly people have been given an indication. You don't get an indication these days. You don't get it until you're really vulnerable. As Mrs Agema said, there are still a lot of people who have not been given an indication. We can call them "shadowwatchers": people who are afraid of the extra costs. Mr. Chairman. These waiting lists lead to distressing situations. Today I would like to talk about solutions, not more research, but solutions. Those solutions are urgently needed. The Minister should have done more about this before. The signals that more needs to be done have been there for a long time. It just didn't happen enough. As soon as this minister arrived, several alarm lights went off. For example, in October 2017, the month the minister took office, thousands of people were on the waiting list for the nursing home. This group of waiters has only grown in recent years. For several years, the number of indications issued for the nursing home has been higher than VWS' forecasts. That's not news either. There has also been under-utilisation in the district care since the Minister took office. In fact, every year since 2015, the year that the district nurse went to the health insurance companies, there has been under-utilisation. I added it up to see what we're getting at. The total amount that has not gone to community care in these years has risen to EUR 990 million. All these caring elderly people living at home have thus missed almost €1 billion of healthcare budget over the past four years. Mr. Chairman. Why am I also talking about community care in this debate about the problems in nursing homes? I do so because these two issues cannot be seen separately. More than 90% of the elderly live at home. If care for this large group of elderly people has been cut for many years, can it not be surprising that more elderly people than can be expected have to go to the nursing home according to demographic figures? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. The Minister also knew from day one that more suitable homes are needed for older people: clustered housing. The Minister has launched an endless series of action programmes, but the most important action programme, the one on living and caring, did not come. Mr. Chairman. Government is forward-looking and forward-looking action. That didn't happen enough. I ask the Minister what stopped him from responding to these signals. I'd like a response. For the coming year, the Minister does not expect any additional growth beyond the growth already forecast. What makes the Minister now think that the estimate will be good in the coming year, when it has not been so in recent years? The mid-term increase in the budget for nursing homes leads to a lot of unrest in the sector. It is difficult to adjust the work in the interim and to add extra places and extra staff in the short term. We should not organise it for another year. We have to get ahead of this. I'd like a response from the Minister. I am also concerned about the results of the national exodus survey. At the nursing homes, an important reason for leaving is the lack of challenge in the work of nurses and nursing doctors. Give them more freedom in making important decisions. It is time for us to give our caregivers more responsibility and trust again. For example, give them more decision-making power over the proper use of quality funds. I'd like a response from the Minister. I'm rounding up. In a previous debate, including the nursing homes, I asked the Minister what competition he really wants to win. Is he committed to increasing capacity, or is he committed to increasing quality? The easy answer was then: it can all be done. But looking at the figures and hearing people's stories, it becomes increasingly clear that we have to make choices. I am therefore going to ask the Minister this question again and I hope for a realistic answer. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're talking about waiting lists in nursing home care. We have talked about this so many times that, frankly, it makes me a little despondent. From what my colleagues have said, I am not alone in this. The question is whether the measures taken now are sufficient, but I do not think so. The number of indications is increasing. That doesn't surprise me. Now the Minister will first investigate why this increase is taking place. I hope this doesn't mean he's going to raise standards further. I'd like a response. TNO concluded that there is a construction estimate of 164.000 places in 2040. This means that there will have to be a lot of construction. At the moment, that doesn't make any sense at all. How does the Minister see this? Is it not possible to organise this building differently and now take concrete measures to create enough places, both for nursing homes and housing that close the gap in the period before that date? I also read in the letter that the Minister wants to raise awareness of the vpt, the full package at home, and the modular package at home, so that people who actually belong in a nursing home can live longer at home. I wonder if that's efficient. I see the picture of a medium-sized municipality - I take Goes as an example - where nurses from different organizations ride and ride around the city. How much more does it cost - just a simple question - a full package at home or a place in a nursing home? Plenty of staff, we talk about that very often. That too is essential for solving the waiting lists. Mrs Ellemeet has already mentioned this: the Working in Health Committee has come to a worrying conclusion, namely that staff numbers have hardly declined in the past year. As many as 111,000 employees left care last year, while we need it so badly. So what's important to do now? The Minister says there's money. But I'm gonna have to get the nurse's workload downstairs. The nurses would like to take care of it. They don't just want to do one medical operation after another and register everything; they want time and space to take care of it. The waiting lists for people waiting for a place in the nursing home of their preference, the so-called inactive waiting or waiting for wishes, are increasing. The Minister does not want the distinction to lapse, because then it would no longer be known which clients want to be actively intercedeeded. But if you turn down a place because it's far too far away from your current environment, doesn't that mean you don't want to be actively mediation? Doesn't mean you don't actually need that place? We have asked for this before and 50PLUS finds these terms very unclear. Finally, Mr President. In order to reduce the waiting list and ensure good care during the bridging period, it is also essential that things are well organised at home. That support is often lacking now. A study by Alzheimer's Netherlands shows that support for caregivers for their relatives with dementia and with an indication for a nursing home is insufficient. Half of the carers do not use day-use, domestic and/or home care services. This leads to an increase in the number of crisis shots. How will the Minister improve support for carers? Because the waiting lists only add to the pressure on those carers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In June last year, we talked to this minister about nursing care. At that time it was already clear that the increasing waiting lists due to too few nursing homes are an acute problem, but the minister said he was surprised at the speed with which demand for nursing homes increased. He repeated this last December in Trouw, where this minister fortunately spoke about his own policy area. Now I read in the letter that I quote 'for me there is no surprise'. Three times is charm, let's just say. Because looking at the Public Health Future Reconnaissance of the RIVM from 2010, 2014 and 2018 this is no surprise. But this raises a pressing question for me to the Minister: it is not a surprise, but has the Minister been surprised? More importantly, how much capacity has been added to nursing homes during this cabinet period and how much is being used? For warnings have been sufficient. So what exactly is the Minister's answer? What is his direction of resolution as a system controller? What did he do, how did he anticipate, where has his policy been tightened, is he going to intervene and how? The Minister refers too quickly and too easily to the health offices. Also doing more research and registering does not solve the problem. It is also a good thing that a building registration is taking place, thanks to Mrs Agema for the suggestion. But that, of course, doesn't help people to get care faster. Since the Minister's arrival, the number of waiting people has increased by 80%. Ten older people come on the waiting list every day. That's poignant. It is therefore time for more action. For example, will ActiZ and the VNG examine how more use can be made of temporary nursing homes, such as the temporary nursing home that is being built in Gaanderen, or of vacant buildings, so that they can be converted quickly? Are the care offices in close contact with all the waiting people? And is early waiting-list mediation applied to any new waiting? We want short-term action today. Then the debate really made sense. If we leave here later and if there are no short-term actions, this debate has made no sense. But increasing capacity is not the solution either. There's something else that needs to be done. Look at the demographics and look at the shortage on the labour market. Better cooperation between professionals and municipalities is important, as well as more alternatives to nursing homes from the social domain and cooperation across borders. I'd like a response to that. There are also more and more new forms of clustered living with pgb, vpt and mpt. That's an alternative. That's nice, too, but is everyone also reminded of these new possibilities from the healthcare office? We asked for more publicity last time. Yet we know too little about these new forms of housing. Who lives there, how much is paid, how does one experience the care, how often does it happen that you can also get care in your individual situation at home or do you have to move to clustered living? We would really like to monitor this. It is a positive development, but it is good to follow this. I'd like a response. It is precisely from the new initiatives, for example the Knarrenhof, that we can learn how difficult it is sometimes to start new forms of housing care. I would very much like a response from the Minister to the comprehensive letter from the Knarrenhof on the barriers they have experienced. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The minister's talking about a double match. And while the competition on quality is slowly moving in the right direction, and that is fine, I hope the Minister agrees with me that we are really losing the race at the moment when it comes to waiting times. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u23	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Who was first? Mr. Hijink?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u24	Mr. Chairman. I do have a question for Mrs Bergkamp, because she says that we will not be able to leave the debate without taking measures or steps for the shorter term. But then I wonder what, in the eyes of D66, is the responsibility of this minister. Because in the proposals that D66 makes here, I hear once again only: referring and asking about others. But what does Mrs Bergkamp expect from the minister himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr. Chairman. I have mentioned a great many issues, because I think that, and I agree with Mrs Ellemeet, this is about solutions, and I think that we, as a Chamber, have a role to play in making suggestions. I have listed a whole list and will not repeat it. But the Minister is, of course, system responsible: he can take more direction. And that is also my appeal to the Minister: take more direction. He does need the care offices, the municipalities, the housing corporations and so on, but he is system responsible and my appeal to the minister is: take more direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yes, but "system responsible" also means that, if healthcare providers indicate that they are in very high financial risk if they are to, for example, rebuild or renovate, you could say as a system responsible: we need more guarantees for the healthcare providers who are going to help get rid of the waiting lists. What does Mrs Bergkamp think of such a proposal? It is a very concrete proposal, in which the Minister himself can have a direct hand in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u27	Mr. Chairman. I should look a little more closely at the SP proposal, but my appeal was also just to the Minister: look, for example, at the Knarrenhof, which I think we are all very excited about. They've sent a very long list of all the cases they've run into. And my appeal to the Minister is also: go through there, see what he can solve, who he needs for that, and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Bergkamp rightly says: there have been many signals. Well, that's what I said. And one of the signals I mentioned was the underutilization of community nursing. I've looked at what that total is now, starting in 2015, so that's almost 1 billion. That's a lot of money. And then it's not crazy, I think, that the number of people who get an indication is higher than the projections of VWS, which is based on demographic factors. Does Mrs Bergkamp share this analysis and does she agree with me that we should look at whether we should invest more in this district care?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Chairman. If there is under-exhaustment, then I think we should stop investing in community care, but then we should see how we can spend that money in a good way. I have also indicated this in several general consultations on the care of the neighbourhood. How can it be? That care at home is demanding a lot right now. We know that there are more elderly people living at home, with more complex issues. The other side is that, apart from demographics, you also have the cut on the labour market. But I do find it alarming that on the one hand you see that there is a shortage of capacity for nursing homes. And I don't think that difference between active waiting and waiting is ideal at all. Besides that, you also see that people stay at home longer, but not always get the care they need. So there really is a tension field that is really unwanted.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u31	I'll share that. More than 90% of the elderly live at home. And if we do not give them the proper care, and if we do not say: we have made a prognosis of how much budget is needed, then spend it, health insurance companies, instead of what the minister has done now, namely once again an investigation... It's the well-known reflex, isn't it? There's another investigation now, while we see five years in a row that there's an underspending. I therefore interpret these words by Mrs Bergkamp in such a way that she also thinks that we should take action here.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u32	Well, I think, when I hear the input of my colleagues, I see a very clear thread in this debate so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. Oh, Mr. Christmas. It's running a little slow today.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u34	Yes, but I thought I'd let Mrs Bergkamp finish first; that's so neat. I am going to build on Mrs Ellemeet's comments on the almost EUR 1 billion that health insurance companies have not spent on community care in recent years, or have been credited to their own accounts, so I always say. That's not because there's no demand for it, but because they can't deliver. In July last year, I made concrete proposals to the budget, in line with what Mrs Bergkamp herself used, namely: let us use that money in a different way for good care at home, because there is a need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u35	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u36	I'm going to make that proposal again today. Can I count on the support of D66 this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u37	At Mr. Kerstens you should always be careful how he repeats your words. I said to Mrs Ellemeet: if there is under-exhaustment, we should not invest more money, but we should see how we can spend that money properly. I have also said that there is a shortage of labour. You may have an amount, but you also have to have the people. I think that's a very big challenge. I also agree with what my colleagues have said about this: that means that you must also stop the outflow. Fortunately, there are now a lot of people who choose care, but due to work pressure, too few development opportunities and too much regulatory pressure they leave care. I think that should be emphasized now. You can have money, but you also need people.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u38	Of course I agree with that. I understood Mrs Bergkamp correctly. I also hear her now saying that it is not an automatism that the money stays with the health insurance companies. We should think about what we can do. There's a lot of ways to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u39	One, you must always think. And two, we know that care at home is extremely important. More and more people are staying at home. So that means you have to spend the money well, but again, you have to have the people there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u40	Thank you, Mrs Bergkamp. I now give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This went a little faster, 'cause I was halfway there. More and more people live at home longer and thus remain in the middle of society. They're part of their neighborhood and their neighborhood. That's good. But if things really don't work out anymore at some point, there has to be a place where people can go, to get loving care, to be nursed there. A place in a nursing home. But the waiting list for such a place is getting longer and longer. By now, there are already 18,000 people on it. 18,000 people, often old, always vulnerable. That number is getting faster and faster. Longer waiting lists mean longer waiting times. While the standard is six weeks, waiting periods of up to six months or one year, sometimes even longer, are no exception. When the cabinet took office, among other things, the Consumers' Association, which had just done research, issued a clear warning: that waiting list is going to be considerably longer. That was over two years ago. How many places have been added in the last two years, I ask the Minister. How many are being added at the moment, as we speak the minister likes to speak English? How many extra places are added under this minister's rule? What number is the minister going to stand for? Is he prepared to say: it will not happen to me that the waiting list as long as I am at the helm becomes even longer? What is the Minister going to do to ensure that? Is he willing, for example, to remove the non-committality towards municipalities and make hard agreements on numbers and timelines? Mr. Chairman. By building extra places alone, however necessary, we are not going to make it, nor are we going to be able to point at each other. There needs to be an integrated approach, with more cooperation, a better match between people and places, a simpler funding and an extra commitment to the care that people need at home, for example on community care. Health insurance companies were also concerned about this for a short time ago, in the last few years, almost EUR 1 billion, which was intended for community care, have been held in their pockets, not because there was no demand for it, but because they could not deliver. I therefore call on the Minister once again to ensure that the money is spent on care at home, for example for the people we are talking about, for the additional use of the practical supporter of the elderly in the general practitioner, for the specialist of the elderly in the neighbourhood, for the case managers dementia and for additional support for carers. There's plenty to think of which people are better helped than insurance companies that charge the money into their accounts. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. People who are on the waiting list and therefore need to stay at home longer than is right for them should be given the care they need. Home care should then go into, as it is called, bridging care. But does that always happen? Is the Minister insisting that people on the waiting list receive proper care in the meantime? What's he doing to guarantee that? Even if that period is more and more often than six weeks or three months. What has become of the investigation announced by the Minister two years ago to reduce or abolish his own contribution to this bridging care? Finally. At Omroep MAX last week we heard that there will be a campaign about the role of health offices to reduce waiting times. That's good, but can they also perform that role now that they say they can't actually force anything? After all, it doesn't help anyone if people are made happy with a dead sparrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u42	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. I now give the floor to Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u43	Mr. Chairman. The last days of the old year and the first days of the new year are moments when you meet a lot of people you might see less. Every day I've been confronted with someone who said: my mother, my father or someone else is on a waiting list for a nursing home. People also do not understand at all that 2.1 billion was available for nursing homes, but that this was only for increasing the quality and not for solving the waiting lists. It is, of course, very good that the Minister is finally taking steps to make the available capacity understandable, so that we know better what steps need to be taken. We are also pleased with the extra money that has become available for 2019 and 2020. But I wonder if that extra money is enough now to get the waiting lists taken away. Mr. Chairman. Today we will have to talk about choices, about solutions. That also requires a vision. My group sees three tracks for this. Firstly, building for older people with a starting need for care. Secondly, creating more places in nursing homes that have proven to have things in order. Thirdly, more commitment to solving the problem of wrong beds.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u44	These are three very important points that Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet raises here. But it's the CDA that shut down the nursing homes, isn't it? Isn't it the CDA that abolished daily spending 90%? Isn't it the CDA that has a minister sitting here who doesn't handle the waiting lists, but lets go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u45	The CDA is in the middle of a debate here to discuss solutions and the current situation. Now is the time to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u46	Sure, I'd really like to talk about solutions. But will we agree that we should not create problems? And about the fact that it was just the CDA that deleted 80,000 nursing homes in 2012 with the Kunduz agreement? And now the CDA says that there must be a solution for people with a starting care question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u47	I think you agree that we should do that now. That's what this debate is for, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u48	But can the CDA perhaps stop aborting care for the elderly? Because then we do not have to come up with proposals to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u49	I'm doing everything I can to talk about solutions here today. My group sees three tracks for this. Firstly, targeted building for older people with a starting need for care. Secondly, to create more places in nursing homes that have proven to get things in order. I'll repeat it again. And thirdly, more commitment to solving the wrong problem of beds. Those who see the figures see a growing need for care at home, even when it comes to long-term care. It is important that houses are furnished on them. In many existing homes, adjustments are simply not possible. That calls for targeted new construction. My colleague Ronnes has already called for the construction of emergency homes. My group believes that priority should be given to housing for older people who are already in need of care. Think, for example, of kangaroo houses. A kangaroo house is a combination of two independent homes under one roof. They both have separate front doors, but also a connecting door. These houses are very suitable for a family and a carefree older. This allows people with a personalised budget or, depending on the location, for example with a full package at home, to receive much better care at home. Why can't individuals who want to be given priority in housing projects? This will facilitate and reward the provision of family care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u50	It's getting too grim here, you know: the CDA that is now proposing that we build more for the elderly. But that's not what the CDA does. What the CDA is doing is giving all new social rental homes to status holders very concretely since 2014. That's what the CDA does. How is Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet going to change the CDA's policy now with good proposals, namely that we should build for the elderly, that we should have kangaroo homes, that we should have life-support homes, that we should have adapted homes for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mrs Agema, you have to listen, because I asked: why can individuals who want to do so not be given priority in housing projects? This will facilitate the provision of care services. I ask the Minister to give priority to building kangaroo homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u52	For the time being, only status holders will be given priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. Second. Care offices and nursing homes must also be put to work. The Minister will provide €250 million for 2019 and €130 million for 2020 to remove waiting lists. The CDA would like to know how many concrete places this means. Can the Minister indicate how many more concrete places are created and can the number of places created be reported on a quarterly basis? In the view of the CDA Group, it is logical that these additional resources should go to those regions that have the longest waiting lists. We also think it is logical that within these regions the money goes to houses where the quality of care is valued as good to good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u54	Before you continue, Mrs Sazias would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u55	I'd like to come back to those kangaroo houses. I wonder if Mrs Poortvliet realizes that a kangaroo house is not for everyone. For that, you need a house with at least a large garden. Then you can set up one of those kangaroo houses. That's point one. Secondly, does the CDA not agree that where it proposes that people should be better able to live together for family care, we should do something about the cost-sharing standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u56	First of all: nothing is for everyone and everything is always custom-made, but I run into people who say they want to share their front door with their mother or father, but run into problems. Sometimes you also need to be able to build new buildings and kangaroo houses can be built. My question to the Minister is also whether he would like to achieve that. My colleague has already discussed the cost sharing standard at an earlier stage, and that is in research. We have discussed this in an earlier debate, so I would like to leave that until this has been examined in the cabinet. At least we've asked about it. So that's what we're working on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u57	I have the feeling that Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet speaks from people with a big scholarship because they do not suffer from that cost sharing standard and can therefore live together. People with a big scholarship who live spaciously and have a large garden also have money to set up a kangaroo house, but if you just live in a flat there isn't that possibility; then you might have a room where you can let your brother or another relative live, but then you'll run into that cost-sharing standard again. So your solutions are nice, but for a very small group of people with a full scholarship.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u58	I do not agree with you at all, because people who can pay very well can arrange for themselves and can buy care and they can arrange it in a very different way, but they are people who want to take care of each other. And that doesn't even depend directly on money. In this case, I am also talking about the situation where someone wants to take their parents in, but is hampered by all kinds of rules. People want to take care of each other, but they should not be hindered.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u59	And that's what's happening now. So we have to do something about this cost-sharing standard. If a brother and a sister who own a house separately want to live together because, if they live together in one house, they can take much better care of each other, they are cut down in all kinds of ways. So we have to do something about that; that is one of the things we have to do. I really like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u60	But I have pointed out to you that this has already been the subject of this debate. That's being studied, I'll say, so I'm gonna stay away from that cost-sharing standard for a while now. I am talking about the solution: how can people stay home longer or how can people who are on a waiting list be taken care of? I'd like to give you a few directions for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u61	I'll give it to you, but if you look away from that, there won't be a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u62	I'm not looking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u63	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u64	Let's see where I was. The health offices; that was the second point. The care offices and nursing homes have to go to work. The Minister proposes... I already told you. Can it be reported on a quarterly basis how many places have been created? That's where I left off. In the view of the CDA Group, it is logical that these additional resources should go to those regions which have a long waiting list. Does this mean that the Minister's assessment is that the growth of waiting lists is mainly an occasional phenomenon? Then there's the wrong bed problem. Older people are in hospitals, on first-line beds. In Twente they are even in the hospice, because there is no room in nursing homes. Those people have to stay somewhere, but the system is sticking on all sides. Those are really expensive places. Maastricht UMC and healthcare organisation Envida have now set up a special department, a switching department, where elderly people can wait for a place in the nursing home in a more homely environment. How does the Minister view this initiative? Is he involved in this? Does he see this as a model for more hospitals?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u65	Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet makes the right point of the wrong bed days: elderly people who used to come to a nursing home before they could go home are now in the hospital and have nowhere to go. I wonder whether Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet is sufficiently aware that this whole problem was caused by the CDA, by stopping funding those 80,000 nursing homes. Does she realise enough that she herself created the problem she identifies here and what she wants a solution for?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u66	Mrs Agema asked me the same question at first and I answered it, so I will leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mrs Agema, it was indeed the same question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u68	Well, no. The cause was the same as the closure of the nursing homes, but that question was more about realizing homes for people with a starting care question; that's another term for "care homes." This is about the wrong bed problem: people who can't go anywhere after surgery, old people who can't go home and used to be able to go to a nursing home. But we can't do that anymore; that's the problem the CDA caused. Does Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet realize that it is the CDA that has caused the wrong bed problems by stopping funding 80,000 nursing homes? She can simply answer that question with "yes" or "no." Does she realize that as a CDA she herself created the problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u69	I do not think that is the right question for this debate. I believe that we should now simply seek solutions that do justice to the problems that exist at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u70	The answer to the question that has just been asked is, of course, very simple, namely: yes, it was stupid to close those nursing homes. It was just stupid. I find it ridiculous that proposals are now being put forward by all kinds of parties: from first-line residences to special departments in hospitals where older people have to be taken care of. They are all patch drugs, because they are not yet dared to acknowledge that these nursing homes should never have been closed. I would therefore ask Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet: if we propose that a wider group of older people be admitted to nursing care so that these nursing homes can become more nursing homes, does she support such a proposal, so that we no longer need all these lap drugs?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u71	That's another proposal. We could look at that, too. What I really can't go along with is that I wouldn't understand why those nursing homes aren't what they were at some point. I have been a member of the board for many years, and I have done all kinds of care there. I know very well that a lot of people didn't want to go in either. People just wanted to stay home much longer. So at some point, you're gonna have to look for another form. Then there will be a new form and we will now look it up with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u72	The SP had it examined. The Central Planning Bureau has looked into it at our request. We can put 65,000 people in what we call a care neighborhood. But you can also call it a nursing home. 65,000 people for 400 million euros. I don't like that much. Sixty-five thousand people were helped with that. This Minister can make a start on this tomorrow, next week. I would ask the CDA spokeswoman: does she support such a proposal? This will enable us to give tens of thousands of people, who are now forced to live at home when it is no longer possible to do so, a very nice, sheltered place in a care neighbourhood or a nursing home. That is a very simple proposal and I ask the CDA whether they support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u73	I would like to see a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u74	We have long presented this proposal. I quote it here and I hope that the CDA is also following this kind of discussion. Check on the street. Check with the elderly. This is so fucking life. Then we need to use all the options to create extra places. This is such a proposal, and I would hope that the CDA will seriously examine this proposal. Perhaps you can respond to that in the second term, because the proposal is already online. It's been calculated. It's possible. It's feasible. It has to be done alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u75	I'll wait for the Minister's proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u76	Very broad in the care system, drivers and carers say that it has really been a big mistake to close the nursing homes so radically, and that at the same time too few alternatives have been built. I share with Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet that we should not want to go back to the past, but I do think we should be able to say here and there in politics: we underestimated that. The sector itself says it is underestimated. Can Mrs. Portvliet say that? I've done it myself before. We should be able to say that here, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u77	I was very closely involved in that at the time. I saw that the boards of nursing homes didn't know how to do it either. They have also regularly made the switch to: let people live longer at home and bring the care home from the care or nursing homes. What we're running into right now is that there's just far too few places where that can happen at home. If you visit here in Den Haag, people say: someone should be able to return home from a hospital, but the house at three heights has not been adapted. So a lot of things could just be different, which would otherwise take place in a nursing home. That's what people want. I find a nursing home something else. But also in the nursing homes themselves, and that's what you hear in the nursing home care... a lot of care could be transferred to home, if the home situation was right. So I agree with you that we are looking for it and that we have not yet found the right form for it. Otherwise, those waiting lists wouldn't be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u78	I regret that Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet is still talking about my question, because it is actually a simple question. My party also wants people to live at home for as long as possible, but I also see that we lack intermediate forms. The nursing homes were those intermediate forms. We could've developed it. We simply made a radical choice at the time, and we are now reaping the wretched fruits of it. It would just be fair if we named that here. Like Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet, I'm very much in favour of solutions. That's what I said. Speaking of these solutions, Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet says that we need to look at new forms of living and that we want more direction from this minister. The municipalities are, of course, also responsible for creating new forms of housing. How does Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet view the Minister's relationship with the municipality? What does she expect the Minister to do more to promote the development of these new forms of housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u79	I ask the Minister to use his perseverance to talk to the municipalities to realize those kangaroo homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u80	Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u81	"Perseverance power" is a very nice word, but I always wonder what that means. I would therefore like to make it more specific. For example, we could make binding agreements with municipalities, and municipalities could do so with corporations, that performance agreements would be made about living and caring in each municipality. The Minister can play an active role in this. Does Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet see that as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u82	Yeah, that's how I see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u83	I just heard Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet rightly make a comment about the great importance of care at home and that there really needs to be a tooth, because people are very helped with it. I ask Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet the same question as I asked Mrs Bergkamp of D66. We note that almost one billion euros have not been spent on community care, which is intended for this purpose. I have often made proposals to use this money in an alternative way in favour of caring at home for those who need it so badly. We can support carers, practitioners, elderly care, you name it. If I re-table that proposal in response to today's debate, would the CDA be willing to take a favourable look at it?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u84	With the people who have care to provide, you ask yourself: where is it that people are attracted to work in the care they do so for a while and then leave? What I see and hear is that people don't really like the system of houses and nursing homes in terms of regulatory pressure. You shouldn't be surprised if people want to work in that care again if they can do it in another way and if they can do it in such a form of home care. In fact, you're providing the same care. Hospitals are starting to do that, too. It's about care deprivation. Of course, we are far from completely familiar with that, but you can see that there is going to be a different form for people who work in nursing homes and hospitals. The hospital sometimes comes to people's homes as long as possible. The nursing home can do that, too. So there's probably going to be a whole different form.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u85	I thought it was a good answer. It was just not the answer to the question I asked. I will try to put it more concretely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u86	That's always good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u87	It could then have to be in the form of community care.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u88	That's not even my vague. My question is this. We note that there is almost a billion euros left. That's money that's not made up. That stays with the health insurance company while we all see that there is a great need for extra care at home, in any way. I have mentioned a whole pride of examples. Would the CDA be willing to support that proposal, if I do it again? Then we ask the Minister to talk to those health insurance companies to not rewrite that money in an account, but to use it, in any way, for better care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u89	Then I will wait for the Minister's answer and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u90	Okay. Please continue, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u91	Finally, in this context, care cooperatives also offer a great deal of support. It's about looking after each other. Care cooperatives also want to provide care when someone is on the waiting list for a nursing home after treatment in a hospital. Does the minister know if hospitals can find these care cooperatives well? Can the Minister promote cooperation between hospitals and health cooperatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet. I now give the floor to Mrs Laan-Geselschap on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll all be old with a little luck. Like my mom used to say, getting old is what you do with flaws. Becoming old most people prefer to do at home, in their own familiar environment. So as long as someone can live at home, that's great. This can often not be done without the support of the environment. It is mainly the care professionals and carers who play an important role in making the quality of life of their loved ones as good as possible. But there's a limit. When it can no longer be physically and mentally, there must be a place in the nursing home for people who need it, with the emphasis on "needed." It's not for their pleasure that they move into a nursing home. All the conversations, e-mails and reports that I have been able to see, hold and read so far show that there are not enough places for those who need intensive care. Mr. Chairman. The central question is: where does it go wrong? I'd like a reflection from the Minister. Where does he think this went wrong? It's not like we didn't see this coming. We know the demographic figures and we know that the developments for the coming years are no different from those for the past few years. In fact, on 23 September last year, the Minister already wrote that there were too few places. He also wrote that they could not cope with the growth of the capacity of nursing homes and the growth of the number of clients with a Wlz indication. He also saw the need to do something about it. What has the Minister done in the meantime? How many institutions actually have plans to build up places and how many places are involved? Perhaps a little more high about it: what has the Minister himself done so far to address this need for more places, which he himself saw? During work visits, I understand that the solvency of health care institutions is not always sufficient to make the investments. What is the Minister's response to this? I would ask the Minister if, in part, we can make available the money earmarked for improving quality, the well-known 2.1 billion, as an incentive to build additional places. The estimates of the CPB and the NZa on the number of nursing homes needed have since been overtaken by time, but these estimates do determine the 2.1 billion. In this 2.1 billion there is an amount for the increasing demand of nursing home care, which now appears to be greater than was expected and calculated at the time. Can the Minister explain how he sees the current use of the 2.1 billion? To what extent does he intend to include changes to the limitation of waiting lists? That too is quality improvement. During the debate on Langer Home, I asked the Minister to come forward with a concrete proposal to create places. In the area of housing, the Empire has expressed an active view of identifying places where it can be built. Colleagues Ronnes and Koerhuis have mentioned, among other things, 15,000 flex houses. That's possible. I'd like us to do the same for nursing homes. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I see that Mrs Ellemeet has something to say. I want to keep going, you know, because it's not that much anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u94	It's okay. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u95	Mrs Laan mentions a number of very relevant things, namely that growth is higher and that the number of people who use the nursing homes, which is calculated in the 2.1 billion, is now different. We have to look at that 2.1 billion in a different way. She asks the Minister how he sees it. I would actually like to ask Mrs Laan: how do you see that? What are you thinking? What solutions do you propose for the best use of these 2.1 billion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u96	As you know, we are reluctant to make political judgements on quality standards from the institutions in our society. But I think you could do something with the money that might not be spent right now because there aren't enough people to do that quality. Because the opposite is: there is money, but there are no people to give up that money. If you look ahead, you might be able to make occasional investments, because that is largely what it means, which might then be able to provide the structural solution. We may want to look at this, but that is also the question: what can happen, what can happen and what exactly are the agreements that have been made in the past?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u97	This is indeed one possibility. I have also mentioned that we are giving more space to the caregivers in the nursing homes themselves. We see that some of them leave because they have too little challenge in the work. Well, one and one is two, I'd say. We must motivate those people, give them confidence, give them responsibility. Who better to determine what quality is than these caregivers? That is why I am asking Mrs Laan whether it would not be interesting, for example, to ask those caregivers themselves about this occupation standard. In one location, maybe that's the most important thing, in another location it could be something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u98	Mrs Ellemeet knows that the VVD likes to think about how we can put the professionals who know it into their power and how we can make them judge it. We welcome the specific proposals made by GroenLinks on this subject. I cannot answer that directly at the moment, but I think the commitment made by Mrs Ellemeet is very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u99	Okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u100	I heard Mrs Laan say that there should be enough nursing home places in case that is necessary. That makes perfect sense, but I would like to ask Mrs Laan this. If the VVD is so for freedom of choice, would it not make much more sense, in the context of that freedom of choice, for older people who do not yet need nursing home care to help those who have fallen once, who are lonely at home, who feel uncomfortable at home, who have little claim and who would choose to live in an institution with other elderly people, by letting the institutions create places for them? Why won't the VVD help that group?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u101	That is a very broad explanation of an issue that is not on the agenda today. We are talking about nursing homes today, and that is clearly something quite different from the nursing homes or old-age homes of the past, or whatever you want to call them. That's not the point today. Today we are talking about a group of people who can no longer live alone, with a heavy indication. The questioner knows that too. We are not opposed to such developments. That people are going to live together in a new way, we have said in the past that we really want to look at it and that we want to support society in it, so we are not opposed to it. But we don't necessarily think it should be like it used to be. Mr Geluk-Poortvliet also said: those long corridors with small rooms for people who didn't really need it physically, people don't want to go back there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u102	Who's been talking about long passages here? I don't think so. The SP is certainly not in favour of this either. We want those care neighbourhoods back in the neighborhood, but the point that the VVD completely ignores is that of course everything has to do with each other. The neighborhood care, the support that the municipality provides, the nursing homes, the nursing homes: that all depends on each other. The pressure in the nursing homes is now so great, because the work there has become extremely heavy. The people who live there need very heavy care. And the nurses, the nurses, say to us: it has become much harder for us to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u103	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u104	Mr President, I come to my question. I haven't been that many times.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u105	It doesn't matter. It just needs to be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u106	I'll do my best. It's gonna take longer. They say to us: make sure that the target group that can be used in these houses gets wider. Then we get more fun in our work, people can also help each other and ultimately care in the nursing home part of such an institution gets much better. I'll ask the VVD if she's willing to support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u107	Well, the way you're explaining it, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u108	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u109	Mr. Chairman. Another point. When the difficult decision has been made to move to a nursing home, it must be possible as soon as possible. The waiting lists must be eliminated. I think we all agree on that in this house. Those spots won't be there in the morning, but there's got to be pressure on the kettle. Mr Koerhuis always shouts: building, building, building and I have just referred to that. In the meantime, care must be in order, and there's just the crux. People have something to do with the health fall. This has already been discussed in previous debates. Less hours of care, more own contribution and also irresponsible situations for the client himself and the carers. This happens to be the subject of a report today. On that point, the Court would have liked to have received that report a little earlier. Mr Agema has already said something about this. The content of this is missing in this debate. We are going to talk about this again shortly, so we will see after the work is done today. The Minister has taken a number of measures by extending care home arrangements. I would like to ask the Minister how this has worked out so far and what further actions the Minister has been planning to solve the problem of the health fall, both in terms of hours of care and in terms of his own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u110	Mrs Laan-Geselschap rightly points out that waiting lists for nursing homes must be removed and that this is a very difficult task that has not just been realized. We can also read this in the Minister's letters. I must say that Mrs Laan-Geselschap is a party that likes to be portrayed as a right-wing party. I just don't understand why a coalition with the VVD in the government is able to achieve azc-spots on a set and jumping basis, 1,200 in Gilze and 650 in Maastricht, but not on a set and jumped this huge problem for the elderly who want to solve waiting for a place in the nursing home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u111	So that's what we want. We also have a number of proposals for this. That's what we're talking about today. I fully share the urgency with Mrs Agema. As far as the first is concerned, such possibilities are also being tried. There are people who need that. You also know that we are critical of this. If you follow my colleague Bente Becker, you will see that she is making all kinds of proposals to do something about it. As it happens, the alderman of my big city of Rotterdam yesterday indicated that he wants to look specifically at this kind of thing. Whether that's right, left or through the middle, we need to see what Dutch society can do. We're running into that, too. This is also more widely shared in society. There are also critical things to say about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u112	What we see in reality is that the problem of waiting lists in nursing homes is actually still in its infancy. We don't know how long they are. We don't even have a building registration yet. Mrs Laan-Geselschap may say that it all needs to be resolved, but nothing is actually happening. At that other point of the azc's something happens. I have the next question. If I propose to give those 1,200 places in Gilze and those 650 places in Maastricht not to asylum seekers but to nursing home residents, will I receive support from Mrs Laan-Geschelschap?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u113	I have to be very honest with Mrs. Agema. I've been thinking like that lately. I've talked to people who know about that. In such places, the quality of care cannot be properly realized. It is much easier to create a temporary home for a healthy person. Students live in all kinds of complexes at universities where perhaps adult people really don't want to live anymore after graduation. I have thought about this, but in practice that is not really feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u114	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u115	No, there's just no will. At the VVD in this coalition there is the will and the perseverance, perseverance to create azc-spots for lucky seekers who have no business here. But there is no perseverance, not the will and the desire to actually realize nursing homes that are needed. That's a hell of a shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u116	Please continue, Mrs. Laan.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u117	This was a colleague's opinion and not a fact. I'm rounding up. At the heart of this debate is people who want to grow old while maintaining quality of life and good care. In the Netherlands, a country with a lot of prosperity, you want this vulnerable group to have the care they deserve and in the right place. No programs, no investigations, just action, get to work, get to work. That's what the VVD wants to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u118	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u119	Madam President. Can Minister De Jonge play a bit of simultaneous chess? You know that simultaneous chess is advanced chess on different boards at the same time. The setup looks different on each plate. Eventually, you'll have to win on all those signs. Only if the total picture looks rose coloring, then the simultaneous chess player can be satisfied. I had to think about that image of today's subject: the handling of the waiting lists. It means that you have to win on the board of getting more nursing homes and on the board of delivering more care at home. But you also need to give more space to new forms of housing care. I will not mention any more points. You can have to play chess on a lot of boards at the same time and at least on that of tackling staff shortages. That is also essential. On all these signs, on all these different subjects, a lot has to be done to win that contest. I was a little concerned about today's debate. I thought: are we going to hear on all these subjects what there is about studies, activities and things, while I think it is more about getting the confidence that the good things happen to get them done? I can also tell from the reactions to this debate that the confidence that we are actually doing enough smart moves to win on all these signs is just not there yet. Now that all these different topics are coming along today, it is good to see how the acute, current problem of the acute shortage of places in nursing homes, resulting in painfully fast-growing waiting lists, can be tackled. The waiting lists put pressure on home care, on general practitioners, on hospitals. We heard of a hospital in which twenty to thirty beds are traditionally occupied by elderly people who actually have to go to a nursing home. Nurses then again have the question: which clients do we choose? In order to get it financially, they sometimes choose the people who really need heavy care and a high care package. Others get harder to find a place. I think we all agree on the problem analysis and also on the issues involved. My main question is therefore: what are the most important moves that the Minister has made or wants to make on these different signs, so that we can also have the confidence that it is enough? All the studies are valuable and must be done, but I must honestly say that my group does not yet feel that everything that is happening, with all the power of thought that is there, is sufficient to really make a move. This will also mean that we sometimes have to look very critically at each part of the programme to see whether the commitment has already paid off. Take the appropriate forms of housing care. Everyone says that these intermediate forms need to come out more of the paint. The kangaroo houses came by today. All kinds of places have been mentioned in the country ten years ago, five years ago and three years ago. There have been motions on it. It's all been thought up, but why isn't it happening enough? Do we know what's behind that? We can table a motion to push that one more time, but is that the strategic move on that chessboard? So much has happened on this specific subject, which is suitable forms of housing care. It's been talked about for so many years. There is now a Task Force Living & Care. That is wonderful, but do we now have sufficient control over the development of these new care concepts? Are they really gonna be there now? This also applies in the field of home care. Mr Kerstens and others have rightly talked about it. How can we say that more care is needed at home, including sometimes heavier care at home if someone can't go to a nursing home yet, but that there is still money on the shelf that isn't being used for that? That is another important point. Mr. Chairman. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what strategic moves are being made on these different chessboards, so that we can say later: De Jonge, that was really a grandmaster. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u120	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u121	Mr. Chairman. Our vulnerable elderly people deserve all the care they need, but poignant situations are the order of the day. No less than 18,000 people stand on a waiting list for much longer than is justified for their well-being. This leads to dangerous and downright degrading situations. Get yourself a single, 88-year-old woman from Landsmeer. In her case, the waiting list for a place in a nursing home is one year. One year. Take a lady who's still in her right mind, but who can't get out of bed and is in a lot of pain and incontinent. It is humiliating that she sometimes has to wait up to two hours before home care comes to change her after she has made her need. It's degrading. This lady is no exception. We must realise that the number of places in nursing homes must double over the next 20 years. The abrupt closure of nursing homes was a big mistake. The closure of existing nursing home sites, supposedly because it is no longer profitable, is bizarre. The SP already asked questions about that. I wholeheartedly agree with that. It is inconceivable that you close nursing homes when the need is so high, the waiting lists are so long and the healthcare providers turn buttons that should have remained the minister's responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I agree with the questions of 50PLUS about the massive outflow of care personnel. The workload, humanity and time must return to work. There are also far too few district nurses, so at home the carers are under extreme pressure. Mr. Chairman. Older people's unions have been ringing the bell for quite some time. There will be many more crises, they say. What's the Minister gonna do? Mr. Chairman. It is true that extra research is not needed, but action is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u122	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u123	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the many questions. I think it's good to answer that. I'll be happy to do that in the next layout. First of all, I'm going to go into the details of the waiting list figures. How are you supposed to understand that? What is the difference between active and inactive? What does the mediation function of healthcare agencies look like? That's the first block. Two. What action should we take to provide for the future task of nursing care? What action does that require of us? Of course, that future has already begun, so many of you have said. Three. As a follow-up: what about not only the care in the nursing homes, but also the care at home? So what do we do in the context of Langer Home and new forms of living and care? The fourth is the financial side of the matter. The fifth block deals with a number of labour market questions. Then I'll finish with a block of varia. Before I get to those blocks, I would like to make a few general remarks in advance because I think that I can answer several questions. They are a bit in the context in which we are holding this debate. Mr Van der Staaij made the comparison with simultaneous chess. I've never tried, but I get the equation. It seems extremely complicated to me. My work is pretty complicated, too. But precisely because I'm spending so much time on that, I don't have that much time left for myself to be able to play chess at the same time. I always say that we have a double game to run when it comes to nursing care. If you look at the games that we have to play in the sum total in the care and which we also have to win we can't do otherwise it's true that at the same time there are many more games to win. We are all doing so in a demographic context of doubling the number of 80-plussers, triple the number of 90-plussers and quadrupling the number of 100-plussers over the next 20 years. In addition, there is a doubling of the number of people with dementia. That's all gonna happen for the next 20 years. Twenty years is not far away; twenty years is very close. If you rewind the movie in your head for 20 years, you'll end up at the millennium change. We all remember perfectly where we were then, waiting for all the computers to go black. So that's not far at all, but actually very close. And that future has already begun. That is an important part of the context, because it also stipulates that this is not the only game we have to play. Even if I say we have a double game to play in nursing care. Then there is the fact that the context is much wider. This context consists of a huge ageing population within which we have our work to do. We are going to talk a lot about this in the coming period; in this context, the opinion of the Forest Committee will also be delivered this afternoon. In this context, there will also be the broad review as announced by Finance. And in this context comes the outline note that has already been announced by my colleague. So we will have a lot of discussions with each other about how we can shape our concerns in the future. What does this require in terms of prevention, innovation and organisation? Is our system equipped to do so, or does it really require system changes? In short, this debate is also taking place in this context. Then a little more precise about the games we have in nursing care. There, of course, the competition in terms of quality has been very dominant. Great concerns at the end of the previous cabinet period, great concerns about the quality of nursing homes. A rather solid inspection report at the time. The need to achieve a quality standard, a quality framework. That took a lot longer than was actually right. Then there was the quality framework and then there was discussion about its financial impact. We are going to have another debate on this tomorrow. And then, at the start of this cabinet period, the assignment in my direction, the assignment in the coalition agreement, to ensure that the quality framework became as real as possible. Just before Christmas, I sent over the progress report on that. It's kind of like Mrs Bergkamp says: that's a game that's actually going pretty well. That competition is also difficult, because it is played in the same context of labour market shortage and so on, but actually that is going pretty well. The other game, the game about the numbers, it's just not going well. We have a lot of work to do there. We see an increase in the number of people calling on the Wlz. According to the last reading, there are over 18,500 people on the waiting list. I will go into the way in which we should refer to this waiting list...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u125	I would do that now, because I think it is important that you address the issues you have just mentioned. You've been working on a general introduction for almost five minutes now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u126	I'd like that. Then I'll go straight to the first block. Questions have been asked about waiting lists, including how to deal with active and inactive issues, also in the context of the motion tabled earlier by Mrs Agema. Let's start with the numbers. A lot of questions have been asked about figures, and I really want to answer them all at the beginning, so that's all we've had. That's just as tough, but we're done. There are now 18,600 people on the waiting list, according to the last stand of November 2019. That booth is updated periodically, but this is the last stand. It has been asked whether we had not seen before that the growth in the number of indications went so fast. Yes, we have seen that coming before, but at the same time growth has been getting harder and harder than we thought. At the start of this cabinet period, we had the mlt estimate of the CPB, which is always so much the medium-term estimate of the CPB. This estimate is based on a growth rate of about 2.9%. 2-and-a-bit% can be explained demographically and there is also a behavioral effect. On the basis of this CPB estimate, the budgetary frameworks are defined. So the growth in the past year, in 2019, was 6.3%. When I look at the growth in the last year and a half, when the acceleration in growth has actually started, so from about mid-2018 onwards, I see that the number of Wlz indications has increased by 15,700. That's 10.5%. So 10.5% in the last year and a half, 6.3% in the last year. That is therefore an acceleration in the number of indications. It is about twice as high as the mlt estimate of the CPB on which we usually base. And it's almost three times as high as the ageing population, because the number of 80-plussers grows by 2-and-a-bit-%. So, yeah, we saw that growth coming. We did see it from the reports of the NZa. That's how it's supposed to work. The NZa reports: the number of declarations is increasing and so you need to adjust your budgetary framework upwards. I also informed you at a number of times that we were doing that. But this pace, almost three times as much as the demographics and twice as much as the CPB's estimate, is indeed a tempo I had not anticipated. I don't think any of us would have foreseen that. You could tell me all kinds of explanations for that. For example, the CIZ has started to dictate faster and where in the past people were a bit more reluctant to go to a nursing home, that shudder has been removed a little bit because it is a bit better with that quality. You could give all kinds of explanations like that, but those are always statements of a temporary movement. Now we see that this increase continues for quite a long time. I don't know how long she's gonna be, but you can see she's been on for quite a long time. Then the translation to the waiting list. For the 15,700 people of the last year and a half, except for a little less than 300, Wlz care is provided. That is not always in the place they wanted, but there is Wlz care arranged. I'm not saying the problem is small. No, the problem is big, but 8,700 people just have the place of their first preference. Of those 15,000 people, 6,800 do not have the place of their first preference. They have a different form of Wlz care, at home or another place, in another nursing home, not of their first preference. That is also the distinction between "active waiting" and "unactive waiting." I'll never call that "waitful" or anything like that myself. I think that's a really wrong term. If you have a Wlz indication, you need Wlz care. Wlz-indications only start from zzp 4; that is heavy Wlz-care. However, there is a distinction between active and inactive, as this requires something from the role of the healthcare office. At "active" the healthcare office has an active role to play in mediation. "Not active" does not require this. Mrs Agema has tabled a motion on this matter. That motion is asking for that registration to be re-examined or, in fact, re-examined. I said at the time that I understand that, because it is not really very clear who exactly is in that group 'not active'. We do know there's bridge care there. We do know that. We know that because there's regular contact there. We know that, but we don't know how much the need is to be waiting for non-active activity. We don't know how long anyone can last at home. We therefore need more visibility or, in fact, more contact. That is also what I did on the occasion of that motion. I entered into the conversation with healthcare offices and I said: I actually want to get a closer look at this group 'not active'; how could we organise more insight into this? That is not only a registration issue, but certainly also a way of dealing with that group. In all cases that I read in the newspaper that it is not possible to arrange care for nursing homes in good time, I check whether an intermediary task for the care office has been discussed. In fact, the answer in all these cases is no, also because one did not know that the healthcare office has that intermediary task to play. So there is a huge profit to be made there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u127	I understand the Minister makes the nuance in those figures. I'm glad he does, too, because that also gives insight. We'll learn from that again. That also makes the debate clear and clear. I still want to get back to the big line. We received a letter from the Minister on September 23rd. In it he indicates that there are concerns about developments and that he sees that there is a greater increase. We're almost six months away. Then the question is what exactly happened and what we are going to do next. I hope the Minister will take that up in the rest of his speech. Because in the letter we received last week, you are going to make another analysis and have another study done by TNO and everyone else. I think the Netherlands is past the stage of waiting for research and we would like to hear from the Minister what he is about to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u128	A specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u129	Yeah, that's right. What I did, of course, first of all, is to make sure that there is enough money, because without money, care offices cannot make good appointments and, of course, nursing homes do not dare to invest in new places. So first of all, I had to make sure there was more money. A total of a number of bookings have been made. In total, 950 million has been added for volume development alone, in 2019 alone. That is a lot of extra money, but that money is important to make then. The second thing I've done is to have a conversation with health offices about getting more insight into that waiting list. That is what people are doing. A proposal on how to deal with this will be presented shortly. That is actually the answer to Mrs Agema's motion in that previous debate we had. That has a registration side, namely a better view of who is actually in that group, but also a side of: how can we keep in touch with that group, to make sure that we know when the transition from inactive to active, so when an active role is required in the mediation of the healthcare office?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u130	Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u131	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not filing any motions to deal with any more smokescreens. I have no interest in a distinction between wish-watchers or non-wish-watchers. I have no interest in a distinction between an active or inactive waiting. The moment someone is placed on a waiting list for a nursing home, we are dealing with a very heavy patient who is bedridden and needs nursing. That is the only criterion that should apply. And then there's no need to be blurry. The minister himself said in MAX last week that the number of active waiters was only 1,500. What about those 16,500 others who are also waiting for that place? And what I would like from the Minister, President.... and I am sorry for my long interruption... is that he lifted the smokescreen and came up with a very clear picture of exactly what is going on. Because we also know that those 18,500 people are willing to pay their own contribution. We know that there are a lot more people in the same situation who need nursing care, who are bedridden, who are not yet put on the waiting list because they cannot pay their own contribution. So I ask the Minister to come up with a very clear picture of how many people in our country need a nursing home bed and not get it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u132	First, the answer to the first question, because I think we need to be very precise in how a client is called actively waiting or inactive waiting. That has to do with the indication. It is being done and that means that from that indication someone is entitled to nursing care. During this indication you will be asked: do you already have a place where you want to go? Well, if Mr. Jansen would like to go to House Supper, then that will be filled in on that indication. That message goes to the health care office, with which the care office is instructed to make sure that Home Evening Red knows Mr.Jansen is coming. And that means that within a few days, you'll have to be contacted by that health care institution. That's the route when someone's inactive waiting. Then why is someone inactive waiting? He already knows where he's going, his family already knows where he's going. That's the route. And so that recording needs to be arranged. What needs to come back to that is that if within a few weeks that recording is not yet settled, the healthcare office will contact that healthcare institution about why that recording has not yet been arranged. 'Cause if you don't, you're gonna get people to be inactive waiting on the list. This requires an active role of the healthcare office, especially in this case towards a care institution. Another route is that someone is indicated, that it is not known which institution he wants to go to, that this then leads to a registration of an indication, but not yet a place at the healthcare office. And that means that within a day, contact must be made between the health office and the lady, Mr. or the family, and that a conversation must be made: what did you think of, and can we intercede in the direction of that place? Those are the active waiters. And so exist those two groups. What is among those actively waiting for is why we had that debate last time, and I am also working on that motion, that there are people who are already in nursing care in another institution, but still have a previous preference for another institution. That means they're still actively waiting. I think we're less concerned about that. Or people say: I really want to go there, so I'm gonna let this offer go away for a while, because I really want to go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u133	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u134	And then, of course, you're not sure. A finger must then be held on the wrist to know if things will continue to be okay at home. That's why we need regular contact. And that is why I want more precision in that list of inactive waiting, but above all more precision in the question of whether we really care if there is any contact with either the client himself or the people around it, so that, if necessary, we can actually actively mediate on this matter rather than a little further in order to be able to take that action. That is the crux of the matter. So what we should do most of all... It is indeed about more insight, but above all more action, to ensure that there is active mediation. This means that we must also know the intermediary role of the health office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u135	The Minister's got some good tricks. He highlights one point, wows about it for ten minutes and then gives no answer at all to the questions that are being asked here. I'm tired of this, Mr. Chairman. I have made it quite clear before. I don't need smoke curtains. I have no need to distinguish between a longing, an active waiting and an inactive waiting when all the people on this waiting list are very heavy patients. They need nursing. They're not people who are beginning to be demented and can still help themselves with a rollator in the neighborhood. These people are in their death stages. They're working on their very last trip. They need a place where there's 24-hour surveillance and nursing. Then they'll be on that list. So I don't need all that distinction. I was just asking the Minister if he was prepared to provide a clear picture in the short term of what the real waiting lists look like, because people who are on the waiting list are willing to pay their own contribution. The real waiting list, with people with an indication in their pocket, is much longer. So is the Minister prepared to give insight, to provide a clear picture of how long the actual waiting list is...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u136	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u137	...for the nursing home? Because then we can actually do something.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u138	Just really in all precision, because I don't agree with the representation of Mrs. Agema. What matters is that we make as precise as possible who those 18,600 people are. What is the difference between people with the label active and the label inactive? The distinction is not that less care is needed. That's not the difference. The distinction lies in the extent to which the healthcare office must play an active role in mediation. All people need Wlz care, otherwise they wouldn't have been given that indication. So that's not what this is about. So I don't use the word "waitful" either, because that would mean that it's not all that bad or that all doesn't go so fast. It's not about that. What it is about is that there is a difference in the extent to which the healthcare office has an active role to play. That is the distinction between active and inactive. And yes, I want more insight into that. And yes, I also want to be more sure that there is very good contact with those people and with their surroundings, so that, if the healthcare office does have to play that active role, the healthcare office can be found as well. This is without prejudice to the fact that the distinction between active and inactive in itself is a meaningful distinction.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u139	Just for a second, because where exactly is it? What exactly is the difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr President, I am simply trying to answer the...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u141	I also see Mrs. Agema's anger, and apparently...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u142	Mr. Chairman. You're gonna let me interrupt six times. I am wasting all my interruptions here to a minister who repeats a standard answer every time and does not answer my question. And then I'm gonna lose my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u143	No, you won't lose it at all, because I'll keep an eye on it. I have promised you that I will ensure that answers are given. But then I look at the Minister: what exactly is it about? Is it a difference of opinion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u144	Mr President, I am trying to give the best possible answer, and if there are any assumptions in the question, I also have to dissect a little what is true in reality and what is not. There are over 18,000 people on the waiting list. That's right. There is a distinction between active and inactive. That's not so much a distinction in whether it's bad or not, otherwise they wouldn't have had an indication. It is about the intermediary role that the healthcare office has to play. I am going to do a number of things more in that, because I think that the mediation role of the healthcare office can be used even better. But these are the people on the list. The second question is: could you picture all those people who are not on the waiting list but who actually need Wlz care? Of course, that's not a good thing to do. If you need Wlz care, you'll get a Wlz indication. Then the CIZ comes along, and that gives the Wlz indication. If you don't apply for that indication, I can't see if you actually need it. We know that there was a hindrance in the own contribution and the reduction in the number of hours. That's what we call the care trap. Mrs. Laan asked for that too. Part of the solution we've offered each other. That was about reducing the number of hours of care you were then entitled to. We've been able to add to that, so there's no more of that concern. I cannot offer part of the solution in the short term, because it has to do with its own contribution. If you're gonna solve that, you're gonna have to change the whole system. Then you either have to introduce your own contribution to the community care department, you don't want to do that, and I don't want to abolish either the own contribution in the Wlz, or we can't afford that with each other, or the Wlz care outside the walls of a nursing home, but that's quite a far-reaching solution. In short, all the solutions in this respect are too far-reaching. I said to ask for advice on this. We'll be talking about that at a later date. But in the short term, I can't fix it. We have also had this debate here before.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u145	Mrs Agema, is this the answer you expected?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u146	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u147	Maybe you two don't agree, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u148	But I don't speak a very foreign language, do I? I have indicated to the Minister a number of times that making a distinction between an active or inactive waiting is actually not appropriate in this patient population and that I do not want to talk about it anymore. The Minister then talks about this every 10 minutes. I'm sorry to hear that. I asked him to give us a clear insight into the number of people waiting for a place in a nursing home. That's different from those 18,600 people with a Wlz indication who are willing to pay their own contribution and who therefore get a spot on that list. There are a lot of people who get that Wlz indication too, but who do not want to pay that own contribution, who are not on the list and who are not included in that 18,600. If you don't have that in mind, you can never come to a concrete plan to solve this problem. Because you keep saying: it is active and it is inactive, it is on the list and it is not on the list, it is willing to pay its own contribution and it is not willing to do so. Is the Minister prepared to map in the short term the real size of people waiting for a place in a nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u149	That is a specific question. Perhaps it will help if the answer is as concrete as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u150	I just gave that answer. That's not possible, because I don't know until people apply for a Wlz indication. What I can do is remove some thresholds to make that transition from home to the nursing home, or from the Zzv/Wmo to the Wlz, as smooth as possible. But that can only be done at the level of the number of hours of care. I've already taken that threshold. If I would also like to do so at the level of one's own contribution... Mrs Agema is right that a number of people say: I am hiking that own contribution, so I'm just going to keep it that way and I'm not going to make that request for an indication. By the way, this own contribution is low for low-income people. But I do know that people are hunching into it. Of course, that's unwise, because then you don't have that group in the picture. But what I don't have in the picture, I can't put in the picture either. So I don't know which group that is. I can't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u151	Finally, at least on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u152	Finally, Mr President. Surely it's possible to find out how many Wlz indications the CIZ has issued?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u153	Of course. That's what you got from me in several letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u154	Then the Minister will be able to find out about the people who would have taken a full package at home or a pgb, but who would have rather been in a nursing home? You can do that, can't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u155	I can give you those figures in a minute, but that's not the group you're referring to. The people you are referring to are people who are waiting with the indication for the nursing home, and therefore also with the indication for the Wlz, because people think that their own contribution to the Wlz will apply. If you want to know which groups get vpt, pgb and mpt, I can of course give you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u156	Okay, then the Chamber gets those numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u157	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u158	Okay, then that's a deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u159	I would like to add my support to Mrs Agema in her speech. I did so in the previous debate when it comes to the system that we now have with the distinction between active and inactive. That doesn't make sense anymore. People standing on them are all actively waiting. The term "inactive" simply doesn't add up. I understand that the healthcare office will then see what is the best approach and what is the preference of nursing homes. In substance, I can also follow part of the Minister's story. What I am very sorry about is that the Minister then says on TV in a programme: we are talking about 1,500 people waiting. Then the Minister will reduce the problem again. We've got a lot more people waiting and there's murmur about it every time. I welcome the fact that the Minister is going to take stock of who we are talking about in the short term. In the short term, as far as I am concerned, this really means within a few months, because this is a debate that we have had many times. So please give the promise that the Minister will also tell us how many waiters we are talking about in total and that he will not make the distinction between active and inactive himself anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u160	I'm trying to help a little, or we're gonna be stuck in this for a long time. There is now being driven from the care side, from the system and I notice from the Chamber that it's just about people on the waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u161	That's a good way to look at the image. Where things go wrong in those labels active and inactive, it assumes that one is waiting more than the other, that one is more going on than the other. Sometimes it is, but you can't say that way. That active is not about those people themselves but about the role of the healthcare office. So the label should actually be "to mediate" or "not to mediate." Then you would like more visibility and especially more contact. If someone who actually thinks he can wait a while while his or her situation is deteriorating and the family also sees that waiting is not really possible anymore, it is important that there is an active role of the healthcare office to just arrange it within a week. This is often being used too late and it is therefore necessary to give much more publicity to this intermediary task. So a little more precision in the registration? Yeah, but that's not gonna help us either, but an active mediation role is gonna help us eventually. I put that question to the health offices on the basis of the Agema motion. I'll get that proposal soon. With that, I would like to inform your Chamber, in the sense of 'that's how we're going to do it', because I think there is indeed a lot of profit to be made. When I refer to that active mediator group, I do not mean in any way that the urgency of the other group would not have been great, because if they did not need care, they would not have had a Wlz indication, because that is precisely investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u162	I had also asked the question when the Minister would come up with it. I think it's very important in the communication of the healthcare office to the people. I myself have had that experience too. That actively waiting or inactive waiting is explained to the patient, in the sense: you want to go to this nursing home but there is no place, so you are not actively waiting for the time being. That is quite different from the intention behind it. So I ask the Minister to come up with a solution in the very short term to how this is communicated, along with the question of moving away from active and inactive waiting. That communication really needs to be improved for the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u163	The distinction has to be: where does the healthcare office have an active intermediary role and where doesn't need to be for a while, but do you have to make the agreement that if that role is needed, who will give us a signal? That's what we need to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u164	And the other question about when?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u165	I think it should work out in a month, and if it doesn't, at least by two months.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u166	Let me turn to the confusion surrounding Mrs Agema's question. I get it better myself now. You have two categories that we're confusing here. You have, what I call, the shadow guards, the people who do not yet want an indication because they are afraid of their own contribution, so we cannot map out what the minister is right about. In addition, you also have a group that does have an indication but doesn't get put on a waiting list.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u167	As I understand the distinction, the people you call shadow guards, those who do not yet have a Wlz indication and who apparently do not apply for them either because of concerns about their own contribution. I can't get a visual on that one. Mrs Agema is actually referring to an apology that I understood a little later on about the people who do have an indication but who then choose not intramurally as a form of delivery but pgb, vpt or mpt. It's possible. Only, Mrs Agema's suggestion that this is all because of fear of the high level of own contribution is something I cannot check and I do not think it is, because there are many forms that people consciously choose. At least I can get a picture of the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u168	Good. That's what you said. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u169	This was just a clarification. So hopefully I will begin my first interruption. We have actually asked from left to right here in the Chamber what you are really going to do, what people are going to notice, how the waiting lists are being solved and how the problems are being addressed. That question was just asked again by the VVD. The answer given by the Minister is: what I'm going to do is increase insight. But I find that very unsatisfactory. So I ask the Minister: what are you going to do, in concrete terms, to reduce this problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u170	That's right. Then I'm gonna take the step to my next block. Because what I am going to do in practice on this point, I think I simply said: not only to improve understanding, but above all to ensure a different type of action, in which more intensive contact is maintained with the group on the waiting list, in order to find out whether the healthcare office should intercede. That's that way. It also has a more client support side, which I'm working on. That's this way. Besides, there's just gonna have to be more room. I've already reported that. There's just gonna have to be more room. Then I'll move on to my next block. This is about the future task of nursing home care and its approach. The essence of this is, indeed, not only that the insight must be better, but also that there is an approach for each region to meet rising demand. It is true that regional insights must be made. Look at the research we've done. Then it's really more about: moving the lines from now to the future. In it the lines are drawn into the necessary nursing home care, just on the basis of demographics. But we know that there are also all kinds of trends in what people choose and what people want. There are actually many trends that have not been sufficiently taken into account in these forecasts. In addition, the translation into the region was not made. Thus, the mission in the region is still not sufficiently strong. That is a step that must be taken. What should also be done is that there is an approach by region from the healthcare offices and the providers on how to provide care in nursing care, I am thinking more about nursing care, also towards the future. When I hear the contributions from the Chamber, you should actually take stock of what the options are in the short term. That is actually what Mrs Agema says, but Mrs Bergkamp has also said a number of things. I think you did all that. Yes, of course there are obstacles in staff, but if there is the possibility to use that wing that is now empty as a nursing home wing, why wouldn't you? Then why wouldn't you do that already? You don't need plans for that. You just have to do that. If there is another way to do the short-term things that lead to more capacity, I would think: you don't have to have a comprehensive far-reaching analysis for that. You don't need a ten-year plan for that either. You should just do that in the short term. When I hear your Chamber like that, that's the question you asked. I think that's right too. I would like to talk to the health offices about this in the short term: how could we best do that? I think I can inform you about the state of affairs before the summer. In addition to having an adequate answer to the question of care over the next 20 years, we need to be able to predict that for each region, because we also need an adequate answer to the question of how we are going to provide it, knowing that, of course, you cannot just double the number of nursing homes. Still apart from the money, there's just not so many people to man those nursing homes afterwards. So you will have to provide for that demand for the future in a different way. But "more capacity" is always a good idea ahead of time, so the shortest possible period should actually be used to achieve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u171	Have you had this subject with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u172	Yeah, that's actually the most important of the two. There are a number of questions I still have to answer, but perhaps we can do this first, otherwise the debate will be so complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u173	Yeah, okay. Mrs. Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u174	Let's take a positive look. This is a very concrete point. The Minister, I translate it into my own words: "We must also seize unorthodox opportunities and opportunities. Then they could be spaces that may not be built, but which are available. I want to play a part in that." I am still curious about the role of the Minister in this, because when the answer gets longer, it often becomes a whole process. Then we'll get to the other one real soon, so what's the minister gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u175	It is a good thing that you touch that, and several colleagues have done so in their input: the Minister's direction. I understand that very well, because I have to play that directional role. And as the scarcity increases, the government will have to play a much stronger directional role in healthcare anyway. This also concerns the debate we had during the budget debate. If you take a look at nursing home care, there is, of course, a legal task for a care office. There is simply a duty of care for the care office to provide places. And there's a duty for me to provide enough money for the care office to do its job. Those are the duties of the system. For clients there is a right: if there is an indication for Wlz care, they are entitled to Wlz care. This is how the system created by our predecessors when I look around me is: with rights for the client, on the basis of an indication, and with duties for the care office to provide for it, if there is a right. We need to adapt the budgetary framework sufficiently to that. But I think it will take more than that; I agree with you. This is how the system works, but the system does not automatically lead to a complete balance of supply and demand. So we will have to look closely at the system and, in anticipation, we will have to have the conversation. A good conversation about whether it can be done faster and better can always be done. An administrative agreement about the way we do it can always be done. You don't need a law for that. I'm happy to work like this; you know that from me. Laws are usually the slowest way to find a solution. So I think we should find the gear. For the longer term, we are doing so in these two steps of a more precise understanding by region of the extent of this task over the next twenty years and a response to it, by region, before the end of the year. In the short term, we need to talk about what acceleration would be possible in order to make additional capacity possible now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u176	I think that's very good. It is important for the Minister to see that this system is now not sufficient to solve the problem and that he, as a minister, needs to step up his efforts. He now opts for a solution that is very much within nursing care. My argument, however, is that the Minister will come to that later is that you have to look at the overall picture. The Minister said earlier that there are many reasons why the figures are higher, for example because it is becoming more attractive for nursing homes, and he mentioned something else, but I did not hear him say that it could be because care at home might not be sufficient. Anyway, hopefully the Minister will come up with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u177	Yes, the Minister will return to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u178	The longer the answers get, the less reassured I am. There were a number of very long answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u179	The same goes for the questions, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u180	I heard the minister say "that's important," I think he's gonna make better, faster and sooner contact between the healthcare office and the one on the waiting list, because that's what it takes to get an insight into when there's an active mediation. He called it the core. I think the core is another: can the care office or the minister guarantee that the care office can also quickly find a place for someone? The Minister said that we still have to map out what is really going on by region. So I think the answer to that question is: no, that cannot be guaranteed by the healthcare office. Then you might have that dead sparrow I was talking about. There is faster contact and that gives rise to the expectation that there will also be a place faster, but if we can't make that happen...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u181	And yet we can often live up to that. I am not going to repeat all the figures, but the group for which there is no conciliation within the threshold is actually very small: less than 300. That is 300 times too much... I agree with you immediately.. but that group does not yet include 300 people. I was in contact with a health care office this morning and asked the following question. This is the right route in my opinion, but that was your question. Imagine that many more people are going to take advantage of this mediation task of the healthcare office; can you actually carry out that mediation task? I know that's a lot of times now, but can you still make it happen? This director replied: the experience is now that it is almost always possible to mediate within a week. That's my experience, too, but I know all those stories from the newspaper: the man who stayed in the hospital for 100 days, the man who stayed there for 19 days. You know all these stories, too. I always call them because I want to know what has been obstructive there. The situations are often a little different, but one thing is going on in all these situations: there was no use of the intermediary task of the healthcare office, because the transfer nurse was not working on it or did not come up with that idea, because the district nurse did not come up with that idea, because close relatives or general practitioners did not know that was possible, or because the situation got worse very quickly. We must therefore ensure that the intermediary role of the care office is much better on the retina and that there is indeed more intensive contact with the care office about mediation. It is not always possible to choose House Evening Red, but it is also not so that you have to go to East Groningen.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u182	By the way, there's nothing wrong with East Groningen. At the risk of introducing a new category, I ask the following question. I hear the Minister mention the number of 300. He's confident we're gonna take that number to zero. I ask him to keep the Chamber informed, because the action with those health offices is about to begin. Will the Minister keep us informed? In this round I ask a small question. I spoke in my speech about my own contribution to bridging care. I referred to what the Minister said two years ago. He said, "It's complicated, but I'm gonna get on with it, and I'm gonna have an investigation into it." Now, two years later, I just heard him say the exact same thing: it's complicated, I'm gonna get on with it and I'm gonna have it investigated. But we're two years away. So the Minister will not blame me if I ask him what he has done about it in those two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u183	I've let you know before what I've done in those two years. There were several problems surrounding that care trap. First of all, it was about the fewer hours. The threshold was that you just got less hours, because the maximum number of hours was derived from the Wlz indication. I took that away by allowing more hours at home, via the ECT, through the multi-care scheme and so on. That's one part of it. A second part of it concerns its own contribution. I have outlined to you earlier that you can solve the health fall in relation to your own contribution by re-introducing your own contribution to community care. You don't want that. I don't want to. I don't really know anyone who wants to. You can make this possible by making sure that there is no need to pay your own contribution to Wlz-zorg. You may want to, but that's priceless. The own contribution is quite a lot in the Wlz-zorg and that is actually quite right. So you can also arrange this in another way by making Wlz-zorg only intramural possible. That is not impossible for the future, but it does require careful consideration of whatever the negative aspects are. Here's what I did. I took it into the advice of the Health Committee at home. That is the opinion on Mrs Bergkamp's motion. That opinion will include an opinion. The cabinet will respond to this this spring. I think we'll get back to the debate. But there is no easy solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u184	We also hear it very often that people do not ask for an indication because they fear having to pay a high own contribution. Just last week, when I walked in on the neighborhood nursing, there was one of those. People put that off in the knowledge that there's no place at the nursing home of their choice. Because there is no place there, the indication is postponed. I would therefore like to ask the following question. If people explicitly ask for an indication of a place in a nursing home, would it really be logical that their own contribution should only take place when they are staying there and that no own contribution should be charged until then? Then we also have a clear view of which people exactly are on the waiting list because they have an indication and want to go to an institution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u185	First of all, if you get this bridge care at home, there is a contribution of your own, but that is a low own contribution. It's really low. That is the first point. The second point is that if an indication for Wlz care is requested, that is because that transition to the Wlz means that more intensive care is needed. It might be a bit related to the solution that you choose, also in relation to the care drop, that it is logical in itself that this is the implication of this if you choose to do the Wlz care only intramurally. If you do not, then I can imagine what Mr Hijink is saying, but then you are busy putting some of the Wlz care out of hand when it comes to your own contribution. That has far-reaching consequences, for example financial ones.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u186	We have to ask ourselves what this own contribution is for. In an institution, I can imagine a contribution of my own. People don't pay rent, they don't pay mortgage, they don't pay gas-water lights, they don't pay food, all the costs they make at home. But in nursing care at home, those costs just go on. There people still have their rent, they still have to eat their meals, still burn the light and the stove. So why would you ask for your own contribution there? People don't understand. They are on the waiting list for a nursing home and then have to pay their own contribution, because they get Wlz care at home. People don't distinguish whether they get Wlz care at home or care from the health insurance company. There is therefore no such distinction. I also think that a contribution of your own is meant for those other things, so I think it's fine to justify saying for people who get it at home that they don't have to pay their own contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u187	Let me not repeat what I just said. I think that the own contribution is also related to the type of Wlz care: intensive care. Whether that's nursing care, I have to say, in a home or at home, it's very intensive care. The ratio behind the own contribution is more than just the cost of living. It's connected now. The moment you have a Wlz indication and receive care from the Wlz, this includes a personal contribution. Don't do that anymore for the home forms of the Wlz, has a considerable financial implication. That's just the reality of things.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u188	I asked in my speech whether the Minister saw this coming. The Minister states that we knew that there would be a big challenge, but that no one had seen it coming last year that it would be so bad. That's how I'm gonna sum it up. You can say something's bad, or something's really bad. But if it's a very big challenge, I assume the Minister has checked how much extra capacity has come in for the nursing homes. My question to the Minister is: can he indicate how much additional capacity has now been added? How did he form a picture of that? It is, of course, important that the Minister himself feels the urgency, even though something may not be a very big, but a great challenge, by looking at what has been added.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u189	So the limitation is that we don't have capacity registration. That was one of the things I was surprised about. We abolished them once, I believe in 2009, when we went from supply to demand steering. That is, in itself, a good move, but it would have been very useful if we had kept something of registration. As far as we know, there are indications and declarations. You just got the figures in the letters. That's different from places. Of course, you can derive places from this, but you know the indications and the extent to which they have been cashed in declarations. Then it's about a small 10,000 places between 2015 and 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u190	To be honest, I'd like to get a little sharper. The Minister sees a major challenge coming, namely a shortage of nursing homes, a large capacity that is being asked and people who are getting older. Then you ask the question very quickly: how much capacity has been added? The Minister says: I was surprised myself. I honestly don't understand that from the Minister. When you see something like that coming at you, fellow member Van der Staaij called it a very nice metaphor, don't you make sure you say to everyone at the table: We're going to register it now as the dungeon? But we also need to express our surprise at the fact that we do not really know, with all the Minister's policies and all the projects and action plans, how much capacity has been added. That surprises me again, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u191	A little more specific, though. I understand the question very well. I have just explained that the increase in indications is enormous. That actually starts from the second half of 2018. As 2019 progresses, it gets stronger and stronger. So much so, that over the whole year 2019 there is about three times the demographics. Moreover, the increase is twice as high as the highest estimate, which was already higher than demographics. In short, I don't think anyone would have seen these numbers coming and never thought they would continue for so long. I will come to a part of the statement later, because it has to do with the care at home. I shall therefore come to Mrs Ellemeet's question in a moment. We have, of course, been advised by the NZa on what the budgetary framework should be. That is also the formal role of the NZa. We have acted on it, namely by increasing the budgetary framework. So I've done what I'm supposed to do when I look at my system role. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. That is why I would like us not only to present the task in each region, but also to draw up a plan to meet it. Moving forward, we need to put the maximum pressure on it to see if we can use capacity. That's what I'm gonna do. What I have done is simply what I had to do, namely to raise the budgetary framework. Just more money is not enough, given the context of a labour market that is already tight, in which the nursing homes are very busy, I will stick to Mr Van der Staaij's simultaneous comparison of the quality competition, which is actually going quite well. In this context, it was not until a little later that the focus was on capacity. That's just true. With me, I'm sure, but I'm also thinking of you and the sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u192	I do not think it is very strong to say: you certainly did not expect it to be bad either. We've had a lot of debates about nursing home care. We have said that this is an urgent problem. I have a question; I hope this does not cost me an interruption, Mr President. After the TNO report, was the Minister surprised that we didn't even register the capacity, or did the Minister already ask himself that, given the fact that he thought: I have a very big challenge and I'm going to see what the effect of my policy is?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u193	The surprise that we don't have a register of the places, I actually didn't get out of the report, because we used to be always on the indication and the declarations; that's how the estimates of the NZa work. That leads us to determine whether more budget is needed or not. Indeed, the system works in this way: the number of indications issued and the number of declarations made. In particular, the declarations were quite directing for the NZa and the estimates. We have now seen that if the number of declarations falls short of the number of indications, your forecasts are just not entirely adequate. For example, the forecasts and also the actualization of those forecasts have been a little lower each time than the realization. That's right. That gives a feeling of running behind the facts and that's not good. Again, it is not a reproach in your direction; excuse if you have understood it that way, but I do not mean to put it that way. The honest reflection in my own direction is that, at the beginning of the cabinet period, we worked very hard for the quality statement. In fact, capacity has only become a dominant theme in the course of last year. So that's right; that's just true.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u194	My question is: who will see to it in the region that there will eventually be enough places available and that there will be enough construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u195	The care office.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u196	The healthcare office now often says: we have a duty of care, but we cannot build; that is what the healthcare providers and municipalities do. Where there is nothing, the Emperor loses his right. Is it not going to wring in the future when the health office says that we are doing our best for these resources, but if they are not there, then we also have no means of pressure?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u197	This was my whole speech on the budget. It's gonna wring there anyway. We have built a system in a different context, another type of scarcity, where on the one hand, on the client's side, an insured right applies, and on the part of the provider of care there is a duty of care. This is the case both with the Wlz-zorg, where the healthcare office has the duty of care, and with the health care provider, where it is the health insurance provider, but also in the municipal care system, where a duty of care applies to the municipalities. That went pretty well for a long time. There is, of course, always a shortage of care, but if that scarcity is manageable, not only in terms of money but above all in terms of people, then it can be done. But we can see that the scarcity of ageing is on the verge of a huge increase. The addition of care obligations does not automatically lead to the provision of adequate care. I understand the sense of the care office very well. It is said that we very much want to comply with the duty of care, but it must be possible; there must be nursing homes that are able to create sufficient supply.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u198	And your answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u199	Mr Van der Staaij asks: is it not going to be complicated in the future? The answer is: that was my own story in the budget. It is going to be very complicated in the future. That is why I have said that we need to work on the way in which we organise our care, not only in terms of prevention and innovation, but also in terms of areas. If each is in his own domain, with the current bulkheads, then we are certainly not going to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u200	Still, I'd like to be more precise, because we have a problem now and we're seeing things coming. If also with beautiful regional plans, which is a very good step in the end, there is ultimately too little capacity available in the future and the health offices indicate that, how does it go?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u201	In the present system, it is then the duty of the healthcare office to reach contractual agreements with providers. Of course, you can see that providers themselves are also looking for new offers. In part, you will be able to make better use of existing nursing homes in terms of space; that is already happening. In part, there are also many new forms, more vpt-, pgb-or mbt-financed. You can see that about half of the growth in recent times has gone through the traditional nursing homes and about half through new forms. So that half of the growth comes not from a classic nursing home, but from new forms of financing. It's possible. But it is in any case the duty of the care office to provide for that growth. What I think should be better when it comes to the waiting list is a better mediation task for the care office. That's one. What I think we should do better in the direction "That's a fair question from the Chamber... is that I also have this conversation with healthcare offices: go, even before the planning for the real future, in the shortest possible time in conversation with your providers to see what additional capacity you can create. I think that's what we should do. In the longer term, I will come in this way, in response to Mrs Ellemeet's question. I have now announced that answer three times, perhaps I should give it once. But of course, you don't look in splendid isolation just at nursing care. There is also an interaction with care at home and also with new forms of living and care at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u202	Finally. Does the Minister now also expect the care offices to be more involved than they are now with those health care providers and those municipalities behind their backs in order to ensure that that capacity is actually made available?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u203	Healthcare providers eh, because municipalities are more about the care provided at home and the new forms of living and care and so on. That's more like the municipal role. This is indeed about the conversation with providers and, well, "behind the pants"... The qualification is that one can comply with this duty of care. So yes, indeed, come to appointments please!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u204	I believe that Mr Van der Staaij is right, because of course this is the problem. In the end, there is no one in this system who can beat the fist on the table and say: we are going to create so many places in this region. The care office can talk, but has no means of coercion to say to a care establishment: you will build here. And that, of course, is a problem. You can have a duty of care, but if the healthcare providers are very careful in building new places, because they see all kinds of financial risks, then we all have a very big problem. I ask the Minister whether it would not be much wiser if, as a minister, ultimately the system responsible for this concern, he would have some kind of perseverance power to simply build these places.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u205	I can't do construction assignments myself as a department. I don't think that's what you're talking about. But I very much agree with you that the current system does not invest enough in this direction. What I am probleming and what I have been probleming in the budget is that, especially with increasing scarcity, there is actually more need for direction. Supply and demand remain reasonably balanced if this scarcity is doable, but if that scarcity is increasing, then someone is needed to say: yes, but we are going to do so anyway. What does help, I think, is that last year we added extra money to the 2020 framework, so that healthcare agencies and providers know that this financial space will at least be there. It helps to take more risk. But it's absolutely true that this directional role, whether it's about the domains, whether it's about how you fulfil your duty of care, or if one can only fulfil his duty of care if the other can do so, then we have to break that chain dependence. I do not yet have the very last answer to the question of how we should better organise this direction, but we will certainly have to give that answer. That's why we're going to work on that contour note. Among other things, it deals with how we organise our care and how these systems relate to each other. That's no reason not to do what can be done now, even though you haven't changed the law yet. Because you can't change it in a few months. You're just gonna take those care offices to look at the table: guys, what extra could we do to make sure that it's actually being built? What obstacles do you run into and how can we remove them?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u206	This will be your fourth question, Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u207	Yes, Mr President, because now we are being referred back to the note that we might get around the summer, if we are lucky. The point is, of course, that this is precisely where the failure of a market becomes apparent. If you leave it to healthcare providers, who all have their own financial interests, who also have to protect their own interests, and who cannot run too many risks, because otherwise the tent will simply go bankrupt, it shows that that system is simply bankrupt, that it has failed. That is why my question is whether, in fact, my mission to the Minister: get that direction back where it belongs, namely here, in this building, with this minister, so that he can finally decide with the Chamber in this province, we need so many places, we need so many places and these are the organisations they are going to build. As far as I'm concerned, that role needs to be played. We cannot wait for the market to solve this problem by itself. In fact, it was created by this.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u208	It will surprise Mr Hijink how much I agree with him. The role of directing must indeed be established, but of course you did not organise it legally overnight. My point is precisely not to wait for that. Let us not just translate into what is needed in each region. I would like to promise that I will do so; I have just indicated that. Let us not just make the plan as necessary to answer that question for the next 20 years, but let us just get to work in every region for the shortest possible time. By the way, we also have the debate on how to better shape this direction in our system. I fully agree with Mr Hijink that this is not self-evident. That directional role doesn't come up on its own. In some regions there are really nice things happening, but that is not a guarantee. We've got to get that directional role.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u209	I have not heard the Minister say so clearly before that the system as we have it does not provide sufficient tools to solve the problems of living and caring. In his letters he refers to the Task Force Living & Zorg. That is a very good initiative, but you have the same thing: there are all parties, but no one has the final responsibility. The minister says he wants to do something. Now I'm really curious how he's gonna do that. He also says what he wants to do in the short term. I think it is not just about the health offices, but also about the municipalities and all kinds of parties. What I would like from this minister is for him to make firm agreements with these parties as initiators on how we will build up in the short term, even though we have not yet invested those responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u210	This debate is about nursing care. We have already had the debate on home care in the autumn. In addition, I have promised something similar. I said: yes, of course, municipalities are the move; it is simply a municipal role to make agreements with housing corporations. But that can't happen on its own. So that's where we're going to have to take more direction. You asked those questions at the time. I think I gave this answer at the time. How do we do that? By starting that task force this year with all those municipalities. It is really not the case that all municipalities have to start at zero, but there is still a lot more to be done. This task force starts work and comes to the action of every municipality with the identification of what the demand is, together with their housing corporations and care institutions. That's this year. Next year, this should lead to a concrete agreement in each municipality between the municipality, the housing corporations and the health care institutions on how that demand is met. In addition, we need to support that. We have to support the municipalities. We took care of that support. In addition, we have to promote it financially, and we have done so. We are already taking steps there in the same way before any legislative amendment is made.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u211	It is a pity that the Minister is now falling back into the intentions as he puts them in the letters. If you read these letters correctly, it says that by the end of 2020 municipalities should have some picture and that by the end of 2021 the ambitions should be formulated. Then we're two years away! The Minister also made the point that he wants to do something now for nursing care and the other forms of residential care. I want this minister to conclude an agreement with the health offices and the municipalities, and now, this month, next month, and not in two years' time, he will set out the goals, set figures and start working and building.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u212	This agreement too is a plan which I have already mentioned in previous letters. That agreement will come. I'll ask for a little understanding. It's a lot of parties. You really don't just have a concrete agreement with numbers and so on tomorrow. A number of municipalities are working hard on housing corporations and care institutions to create all kinds of new forms of living and care. There's a lot going on there. So let's not pretend nothing happens. However, I agree very much with Mrs Ellemeet that the same question of direction applies to the other areas of care. There is absolutely no need to wait until the law is amended. You can just get to work there. So that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u213	The Minister is moving in the right direction; I must be able to compliment him once in a while. In his letters he speaks very clearly that the direction for the construction is in the region. Then there's the whole story, the whole racket of the municipalities, the health offices, the housing corporations and the healthcare providers. I understand that the Minister now understands that he needs to take more active control. He comes with a task force, which should eventually lead to an agreement. But the problem with the construction assignment for the nursing homes is already so acute at the moment until 2040 there are perhaps 164,000 extra places that I am wondering: does the Minister not see that there is simply a need for a clue, after a very thorough inventory, where he decides: that municipality gets that assignment and that municipality gets that assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u214	I don't think this is necessary. But I am also somewhat hesitant, because it depends a little on the speed at which we can get to work. In this case, it would be an indication towards municipalities. This is only when municipalities, for example, would not make land positions available at all. But why would municipalities do that? Of course, they also want to take good care of their ageing population. However, the pace at which you can achieve things that need to be built is quite dependent on all kinds of complicated procedures, so it can take an incredible amount of time before you can actually implement a plan. I remember, as an alderman, opening up schools in particular that my predecessor had initiated and rarely a school that I had initiated myself. That just takes a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u215	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u216	This way, I want to get to work. I see that my colleague Van Wonen is also working in this way. It makes regional deals and thus tries to stimulate housing. Honestly, I think that's gonna take you a long way. At least I think it's the fastest way. In the end, I do not think that we will actually see these 260,000 places, because they simply cannot be realized. If you could realize it already, you couldn't man it then, because so many people are just not there. So we will eventually also have to go to other forms of nursing care. But we do have to get to work. I don't think I need a clue right now, but in the end, you're just gonna have to realize what you want.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u217	The minister doesn't think he needs a clue, but of course he's not the first ruler I've met. I think I've been here longer than the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u218	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u219	Yes
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u220	I'm glad you're here longer.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u221	Well, or not, 'cause I'm always fighting the beers. So my question is: when is the time when the Minister will consider or reconsider? Is he gonna do that? Should he give an indication of how to create these building volumes, or should he leave it at that, and should I be with his successor or the successor of his successor? In eight years' time, as in the case of the closure of care homes, should we come to the conclusion that on 15 January 2020 we had a debate in which this question was already before us?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u222	What I have to do is set in motion what we just discussed. So I just need to make sure that more capacity is generated. That's what I have to do when it comes to nursing care, but also when it comes to new forms of living and caring. How am I supposed to do that? That is what we have had the debate on. If it turns out at some point that it doesn't work or that it doesn't work fast enough, we're gonna have to put a new toolbox on the table. I can't predict what's in there. This is the path I would like to take. That is what I am having the debate on with the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u223	And when is "at any time"?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u224	That comes in a number of steps. I will let the Chamber know for the summer what additional capacity agreements there are to be made in the shortest possible time. I will let the Chamber know for the summer what the regional translation of TNO's major research looks like. So I'll inform the Chamber at different times. By the way, there is a periodic update for the waiting lists. You can also follow the waiting lists to what extent it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u225	Yeah, I think that...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u226	I'm just talking about moving on to a lead. When will there be a "go/no go" moment for a clue? Please do not let us wait ten years if necessary. Just let the Minister see the urgency of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u227	Yes, but I said that if it is not fast enough, I have to come up with a new proposal on how. So I'm gonna have to put a new toolbox on the table. But I cannot say in advance when I inform the Chamber or not about a clue, because at the moment I do not think I need that instrument. By the way, it is always a question of a clue: a clue to whom and why? And what's the behavior effect of that? So that's connected with so many things that I can't say this right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u228	The fear of me and of my colleagues is that we are going to monitor and register for four years, that we still have no idea how much capacity is added and that there is simply not enough capacity added. We are not going to wait for the contour note, regionalisation and all of it. The Minister can, of course, enforce the cooperation between the various parties, the municipalities, the health offices, the health insurance companies, even now. That's just legal. My colleague's talking about a lead. There's a lot you can do with that collaboration right now. Is the Minister prepared to use that instrument at least?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u229	By the way, I wouldn't have too much hope of forcing you, but you don't always have to have it. The law doesn't provide for coercion, you know. That is very disappointing when it really comes to forcing an institution or whatever to take action tomorrow. You can do anything on the quality side, you can point out their duty of care and so on; all that can be done. There is no provision in the law that co-operate wisely and achieve results should not be allowed. Well, you can. Anything that's not in the law about that, you can just do it anyway. That's exactly the route I'm pointing out. I'm not saying go wait with each other for the contour note. This may be the case in the debate on how to amend the legislation. I'm just saying we don't need another law to do the right thing. So let's just do the good stuff and let's go into gear with the steps I'm indicating.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u230	Because they are communicating vessels, I do fear that the problem will get bigger if the problem in the area of nursing homes gets bigger and we do not solve the problem at home. I'm just talking about social prevention. Part of the solution is therefore really in the active use of the social domain and cooperation with healthcare agencies and health insurance companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u231	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u232	We see that in some way this is not quite coming off the ground yet, with all the consequences of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u233	Sure. So it has everything to do with each other. That's the plea, too. Now I am really going to answer Mrs Ellemeet's question; now I am announcing the answer for the fourth time. That has everything to do with each other. At home and the nursing home everything has to do with each other, because part of the nursing care is provided in a home situation. But not just for that reason. Imagine that care takes place at home in such a way that people do indeed think "that's how I could last a little longer." For example, the new forms of housing and care do indeed result in a postponement of an appeal to Wlz care or to nursing care. That's what everyone who knows about it says, and I think so too. So yes, it has everything to do with each other. That they are communicating vessels is also seen in the finances. Mrs Ellemeet and I have talked about this before. It concerns, for example, under-spending on community care. Mrs. Ellemeet made an addition over the years. She came to almost 1 billion in four or five years, I believe. I'm not gonna count that, 'cause I'm gonna assume that's right. But only the plus in the volume in nursing home care in 2019 is also 1 billion. And that's 1 billion in one year. Where did this 6.3% growth come from in 2019? Of course, they could very well come from the group that was otherwise helped and cared for at home. In short, they are also financially communicating vessels. And that also means that I have a slightly different weighting from Mrs Ellemeet's underutilization. In fact, I have a slightly different weighting from Mr Kerstens in this under-utilization of neighbourhood care, because I think that for those who, according to the estimate, would be cared for at home but because of their indication that Wlz care was needed, that part is delivered at home and part in a home should, of course, not lead the budgetary framework, but following. And it has been. So, yeah, we've been underutilized in community nursing. I'm gonna say more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u234	That's what I'd do now, while you're working on the financial side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u235	That's right, I can make that bridge right. We have had under-utilisation in the district care and a huge over-utilization in nursing care. I can't escape the impression that those two things have everything to do with each other. Mrs Ellemeet then says, of course, "Yes, but that can never be the only explanation. There are really other explanations, because what is true of the fact that, for example, the health insurance companies have squeezed a little more in the area of care? Can't you tell by the number of hours of community care being reduced?" I do not rule out that this is true, but the fact that people switch to the Wlz domain can be an explanatory factor for fewer hours of community care. That is precisely why, in my view, we should not allow the budgetary framework to be leading but following. That's one. Two: we need to make that analysis better. That's what I promised. That better analysis will come in the short term. Moreover, the budgetary framework for community care is commonplace. I am not calling that into question; that budgetary framework is in place.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u236	I would like to see how far you are now, because there have been a lot of answers given as a result of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u237	If I am honest, I think that in the order of my speech block three, living longer at home, I have actually dealt with the interruptions completely.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u238	Yeah, that's right. I think that also applies to the financial side.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u239	The financial aspect is now being dealt with more or less completely. Then after that, if this was pronounced correctly, I would only have varia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u240	Good. Well, then, you've actually already raised almost everything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u241	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u242	I shall go first to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u243	I was actually a little bit ahead of the previous point before the financial aspects were discussed. I am still a little unsatisfying about this moment of control in response to Mrs Agema's question. Would it not be helpful for the Minister to mention a moment when there really should be credible plans in every region and where he must feel that the fill-up of these capacity shortages is good enough, otherwise he will look very deeply at that toolbox?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u244	As far as the plans are concerned, I have said that I would like to see a plan for Christmas in each region which will respond to the regional development of the question, which I want to see before the summer. At the same time, I said that I am not going to wait for that with all the short-term actions; they can happen now. I therefore believe that the answer to Mr Van der Staaij's question is that we have a picture of these regional plans before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u245	Not only an image, but also an assessment by the Minister: is the question adequately answered with all the plans that lie ahead? And if that is not the case, what additional instruments are needed to achieve this?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u246	Yeah, based on that, you could actually put that in the picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u247	Okay, but is the minister gonna do the same?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u248	Let me put it this way: I assume that at any time, whether in summer or not, the Chamber will say whether or not it should know about the regional translation of demand development, the clarification of demand development or the regionalisation of plans. So I'm assuming we'll have the conversation any minute. I conclude from that that, when I tell you that we must have a plan in every region by Christmas, you want to know what those plans are, whether those plans are enough and so on. So we're going to send a letter to the Chamber. So I think we have the debate in the first quarter of the year. What is it then? In addition, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure I only hesitate to say that in that way because it exudes that we still have time until then. That's not true. That's not what you're saying either. That is precisely why I would like to stress that this step must be taken. It just takes time to do that right, but I actually just want to get to work. In the steps I have outlined, I would simply like to do everything possible to fill in this additional demand for capacity much earlier. But every time we complete such a milestone, we have to talk to each other: do the good things, do them well enough, do them thoroughly enough, or do we need more?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u249	Is that what you meant, Mr. Van der Staaij? I am not saying that to provoke another interruption, but it is important that this be worked out.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u250	The Minister is right to say that we will have a parliamentary discussion at any time and that this should not mean that you have a very long time. But given the fact that so many actions have been going on for so long and sometimes show insufficient progress, there can actually be a moment earlier to put pressure on all parties. We want to be able to trust that things are going well. If the plans here aren't really clear, then there's got to be more teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u251	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u252	I notice that this is widely shared. The whole room thinks so. Can I put it that way? I see that it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u253	And how can I best provide for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u254	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u255	Can I try? Because I understand the need very well. Of course, I have that need myself. To get a picture of the question we really need some time for that translation until the summer, for that regional translation but also for the translation in the sense of: what trend development do we see? In my opinion, care agencies and providers really need the time until December to make a good plan for the coming years. But I do not want to wait for that, because that would mean that we would have the mind, that I would send you a letter and that on that basis we would have a debate in the first quarter. I think that we have had the debate on the directional role a long time ago; the debate which Mr Hijink initiated and which was supported by Mrs Agema and Mrs Ellemeet, but which is actually felt by all of us. Frankly, I expect that we will have the debate on the role of director by the summer, on the basis of the contour note. Given the enormous development of demand, the "simultan chess" you mentioned, in all those areas that do not cooperate as such and given all the duty of care that gets a little worked out when the emperor loses his right because there are simply no people to comply with that duty of care, we will have to rethink with each other the instruments to provide for it. That's part of the directing question. I can therefore imagine that, for the budgetary procedure or the contour note, at least one of those two, but I would like to make a very precise observation as to whether the instruments we have at the moment are sufficient to meet this question of direction. I think that is the exact question. That is what I have to do on the occasion of the outline note or just after, but at least for the budget, so that we can have that debate together. Is that the way to answer your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u256	When I see the faces like that, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u257	I'd like to go back to neighborhood nursing. I found the Minister's reaction and his words on this to be rather cautious and economical, as well as on the figures it is about the same amount of money and the communicating vessels. Yes, they are communicating vessels, but we must only note that only 7% of the elderly live in a nursing home and that we can provide much less elderly people with good care than we can offer them at home for the same amount. In addition, from mid-2018 onwards, the indicative figures have increased enormously. From 2015 onwards, you will see the under-utilisation of the budget of the district nurse. What I'd really like from this minister is for him to feel what I'm feeling, which is, guys, what are we doing? We just need to provide good care now. We want and must spend the amount that we have set out in all these main lines agreements, which the Minister rightly says it is established that it is simply intended to provide people with good care. For many years that has not happened in the margins there are other reasons, and I want the Minister to say: sin, stupid. Insurers, invest in that neighborhood nursing!
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u258	This was your last question, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u259	But that would really be too one-sided a way of looking at this issue. Yeah, I see that underutilization. I have already told Mrs Ellemeet that I do not like that. I would have liked us to go up to the edge of that expenditure ceiling in community nursing. That's what I wanted. The underspending is also not getting smaller, but bigger. That's not okay. What I am just saying to Mrs Ellemeet is that I can understand when we have such a huge overspending in 2019 on the side of nursing care and such a massive underspending on the side of home care. One of the explanatory factors is indeed the increase in Wlz indications. That is a much more important explanatory factor than that of Mrs Ellemeet in her summary of what is happening. We may not be able to do anything about that, but it doesn't make any sense. That's why you need to know exactly. That's why we're doing the investigation that's coming in next month. We're doing that investigation to find out exactly what happened. Have we not adequately estimated how many Wlz indications would come? Budgetaryly, that is indeed part of the statement. But it's part of the explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u260	I'm gonna keep going, because there's another part that explains it. I'm sure the minister's gonna run with neighborhood nurses. On the assembly line, teams have to insert patient stops because there is a lot of demand for community care, but it cannot be delivered. We're gonna wait for an investigation... an investigation is never wrong... but it wouldn't be wise... The health insurance companies are on both sides. They have to deal with nursing homes and community care through the health offices. Would it simply not be wise, I have already suggested that at least with health insurers and possibly with other parties to talk about how to use that money in a different way, for the sake of that care at home? 'Cause there's that need. I have mentioned a trite measure. I won't repeat them. The minister knows them, too. Wouldn't it be wise at least to have the conversation with each other? I would also prefer the ideas to come from insurers rather than, so to speak, being forced on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u261	We're doing that analysis just to make this conversation better, because then you won't have a discussion about the facts. I hear from many quarters another explanation for what is actually happening here. That is not entirely without the interest of those who make the statement, I would add a few words in the direction of Mr Kerstens. I don't mind that either. I understand that, too. But let us first establish these facts with each other, because that makes the conversation better. At the same time, I think we have a lot of other things to do in community nursing. Of course, we're working on that. I believe that this is about things that Mr Kerstens also supports, namely working more as a single team in the neighbourhood and working on providers with less fragmentation. Think also of another funding system, which stimulates less volume growth but is more focused on the result, et cetera. So all those things that have to happen for the neighborhood care, we do. The discussion about whether we are no longer interested, also budgetaryly, in serving care at home rather than pave the way to the nursing home, we must of course also have, but that is precisely why we need the facts much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u262	I continue to regret the fact that we have to wait for the investigation if we are to start talking at all about the billion, to put it very flat. There are plenty of good destinations for it. You can't spend it on people who aren't there, but you can spend it on people who are there and who have an important role, such as the case manager, the specialist elderly medicine, the POH elders and the like. You name it. The Minister wants to wait for his investigation. If that research is there and if that simply shows that a certain part of the 1 billion that Mrs Ellemeet and I have always caused on our retina is because there is demand for care at home but it cannot be delivered, will the Minister promise that that is the amount he is going to deal with with the health insurers, with the question: how are we going to fill it out in alternative ways for care at home?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u263	If you didn't link that to the amount, my answer linea recta would be yes. I really want to wait and see that investigation. But the conclusions of the investigation are indeed relevant for the follow-up. Of course I'll inform you about the follow-up we'll have. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u264	I'm sorry, but I'm going back to the last discussion. We didn't clean up the Christmas stuff until last week. I now hear that in order to realize something and for things that come to the Chamber, it is called a term: for Christmas. You can't follow that. That can and must be done much sooner. The instruments referred to a number of times by the Minister are simply known whether or not they are satisfactory. They've been known for years. They're known now. So the Minister knows what instruments he can use. He didn't want to be chasing people's pants, but I'd say kicking their butt sometimes. So the Minister knows what he has to do to solve this problem that we all, including the Minister, are pointing out. You can do that much faster. I would like to compare the discussion that the Chamber had with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the construction of additional housing. A motion has been passed in the Chamber on the responsibility of the Minister of State for building additional housing. He or she is not going to build himself, but needs all kinds of people to do so. The same applies to this minister. So I would say: I think that urgency is very clear. You can feel it yourself. Don't talk about Christmas. Please don't talk about that contour note, because it's about everything. It's not specifically about this. Just go ahead and do it faster. And make it more concrete where possible. That is also possible, because the field must now feel that it is being said from The Hague: it is now ready; one has to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u265	Yeah, exactly. That's why I hesitated to make sure we couldn't talk about it until Christmas. I don't want to. Just, for a really good plan on how you're going to provide enough nursing homes for the next twenty years... Moreover, we find that there is no provision planning at all. We are not as planned as the Netherlands at all. We don't have much Chinese in us in that regard. Coming out of that situation and working towards a plan to provide nursing care for the next 20 years just takes time. But that is not the time that you and I have to think together about whether the instruments we currently have at our disposal are sufficient. I would therefore like to separate those two discussions a little bit, otherwise we are going to be very out of time. That is why I said: if I were to answer that question about the summer... That is what I have just promised in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij: is the instruments, the way in which we can take control and the way in which we can steer enough to get where we want to go? That's got a lot of system sides. That does not have to be part of that contour note, but it is an opportunity for it, because these things are connected. So if I may send you this about the summer, I think we can have a debate at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u266	Good. Then I suggest you go to a rounding.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u267	Yeah, I'll do it like this. I think I've had the most important financial questions. I'm going to round off by taking a quick look to see if I left things in the block of varia. "How does the Minister look at commercial parties?" That was also a question from Mr Hijink. I think we'll just need housing corporations and project developers, so really commercial parties, to meet our demand. "What's cheaper: vpt at home or a nursing home?" That was a question from Mrs Sazias. Vpt is cheaper because it does not include housing costs and accommodation costs. That is, by definition, cheaper. If you compare Dutch care internationally, then the nursing home care in the Netherlands is the most expensive of all countries in the world. This has partly to do with the accommodation costs that we make financially possible from the Wlz. Dan Montfoort. I simply answered written questions about that. I do think we should be exactly in what's closed there. I know a lot of people are very sad about that, but it's about a very strongly outdated, small location, most of which were actually waiting in another place. So that's what's going on there. The case in Oentjerk is a bit similar to the case in Montfoort. Moreover, I think it is right that you always ask the question in this type of closure. I always like to go after it, too. If something is closed at a time when you actually need a lot more, then that naturally leads to questions. But when you go after it, it often turns out to be a very good reason for it. That is also the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u268	Mr Hijink on the previous question.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u269	I would warn the Minister to be a little more cautious in the way in which he is now destroying these kinds of initiatives. There's a reason for an entire community to rise up when a location closes, especially in Oencherk. That location was built in 2014, so it seems very hard to me that it is already completely obsolete and that no one wants to live there. The local community doesn't rebel for nothing. The community there simply loses nursing care. I would like to ask the Minister: bet you to keep these kinds of important locations open. But be careful to put it aside in the vein of: well, what do I care if eight places disappear, because it is outdated anyway and what does it matter? 'Cause he just sketched that image.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u270	No, actually, I didn't want to say that, and I didn't say that, for that reason. In Montfoort, it's about eight places. I explained that some of the residents actually preferred a different location. We go back to the waiting list discussion: they were on the list of inactive waiting because they were waiting for another location. That location just wasn't up to date anymore, because it was a residence where all sanitary facilities had to be shared. So they all had their own room, but a shared bathroom.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u271	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u272	I have replied to you in writing. If you'd like me to extend my treatment of the case-Oencherk a little bit, I'd be happy to. But there is often a good reason, I just want to say why things are stopped. It is good to always want to know the seam of the stocking, so let me just come back to this in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u273	Yeah, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u274	Then Terpstra's plea for less market forces and more cooperation. That was, a long time ago, also my own plea. We have also discussed it a number of times, including in the budget. Mrs Sazias calls for more forms of care support. We have talked about this a number of times. We really have more to do in that, I think, than we have done so far. As part of the Langer Home programme, we have already launched a lot of actions, but I also think that it is not good enough, because many people are still experiencing that it is not enough. I indicated earlier that I would like to make arrangements with municipalities, employers, insurers and healthcare providers not only to launch a campaign for care support but also to provide a clear and visible point of contact for carers in each municipality, with clarity as to what forms of care support are available locally. Following a number of motions from your side, we offer a number of experiments with new and better forms of care support and so there are other things. I shall come back to that in writing, with a new proposal for further support for the caregiver.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u275	I am very curious about the new proposal, because when I hear the Minister like that, I think: well, that's where the direction is watering down. Conversations with health offices, with those, with those, with those... It was clear, I think, in this debate: the direction must now come from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u276	I get that. That's what I'm gonna take. But in the end, the carers of course speak to a gentleman or lady from the care office, to someone from a nursing home or a neighbourhood nurse. It is important to support not only those who need care, but also the caregiver who takes care of part of that care. They like to do that, but it is getting harder and harder, and they want to be helped. However, it is intended that this support should be felt there as well. In short, I'll come back to that. If you think "I really expect more from the Minister," I'd probably like to hear it at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u277	Thank you. With this we have arrived at the second term of the Chamber. I thank the Minister and I give the floor to Mrs Agema. We'll wait until Mrs. Agema finds her motion. She's already done. I call Mrs Agema on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u278	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this debate is much more positive than we went into it. I think it is very positive that we are seeing a minister here who says that in his period there could be a momentum where the toolbox of possibilities should be extended and we could move towards a designation towards municipalities, towards regions, for building volumes for the elderly housing. I believe that Mr Van der Staaij will table a motion on that instrumental instrument or momentum. I can co-sign it. Mr. Hijink, like me, has made a point about his own contribution. I don't think it's right that it starts when people are on the waiting list. I don't think that's appropriate. I'll co-sign that motion. Mrs Sazias is tabling a motion on the active and inactive waiting. I made that point, too. I co-signed her motion. Then I have a motion myself on the azc's. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are 18,600 very heavy patients on the waiting list for a place in a nursing home;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that the 1,200 azc sites in Gilze and the 650 azc sites in Maastricht are not given away to lucky seekers, but are made suitable for waiting for a nursing home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-462]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u279	1:20 minutes, so I'm gonna start filing some motions right away, Mr. Chairman. The first one has just been announced. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people who are given an indication of a place in a nursing home should pay their own contribution from the time of the indication while still on the waiting list;]] [[calls on the government to remove its own contribution for people receiving bridging care and who are explicitly on the waiting list for a place in a nursing home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a large group of people who do not make it home is often not eligible for care in an institution between home and nursing home;]] [[calls on the government to free up financial resources to extend the indication in the Long-Term Care Act so that people who can no longer make it home can count on a place in a care neighbourhood, nursing home or residential facility close to the nursing home,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Hijink and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-463]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u280	And the last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the need for nursing homes doubles in the future and that there are already long waiting lists for nursing homes;]] [[noting that currently (sometimes small-scale) nursing homes are closed;]] [[calls on the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport to make personal efforts to preserve these locations for local communities where (small-scale) nursing homes are threatened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u281	Thank you. Mrs Ellemeet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u282	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with my motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are over 17,000 people on the waiting list for a place in the nursing home;]] [[noting that nurses and nursing doctors leave nursing homes because they experience too little challenge in their work;]] [[whereas these professionals know best how to provide good care for as large a group of older people as possible;]] [[Whereas the work for professionals in care becomes a lot more challenging if you give them more responsibility;]] [[calls on the government, together with professionals, to create more room for their input into the use of quality funds, to promote better quality and more capacity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Laan-Selschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u283	I also have a cautious positive feeling about the outcome of this debate. I think the Minister is aware of the urgency. He has also said that he is prepared to take unorthodox measures, that he is prepared to take even more control, even if that is not part of his system responsibility. I think that's exactly what it takes. The need is high, not only in the nursing homes, but also out there. So I look forward to the steps he's about to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u284	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u285	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start reading the motion right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the term "non-active waiting" for a place in a nursing home is confusing for patients, healthcare offices and caregivers;]] [[Whereas people with a Wlz indication and registration for a nursing home need heavy and complex care and are therefore always "actively waiting";]] [[noting that the term "non-active waiting" clouds the overview of the waiting list problem;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the term "non-active waiting" and to consider all persons registered at a nursing home and an Wlz indication as actively waiting,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Agema, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Hijink and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u286	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mrs Bergkamp on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u287	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start reading my motion right away. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in July 2019 the SCP published the report "Living with care; Recognition of private care for the elderly," but that there is little known about these initiatives, the residents and the care they receive;]] [[Whereas there is an increasing use of Wlz forms of care, such as the full package at home (vpt), the modular package at home (mpt) and the personal budget (pgb);]] [[considers that vpt, mpt and pgb are forms of care that enable people to stay home longer and can also lead to new residential care initiatives;]] [[Calls on the Government to monitor the use of vpt, mpt and pgb in group setting, taking into account the increasing use of vpt and mpt in clustered form, the quality of care provided in these initiatives, the use of care and support not provided by these initiatives and the (financial) accessibility of these initiatives, how often vpt and mpt is offered in an individual housing situation, against which quality and to inform the Second Chamber in the second quarter of 2020;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-468]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u288	I've signed a number of important motions. I think there was a very clear common thread in this debate. We look forward to carrying out all these motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u289	It was a lot of abbreviations.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u290	I've been talking to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u291	Vpt is a complete package at home and mpt stands for modular package at home, I say for those who follow this debate and cannot read the motions immediately. I call Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u292	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two motions, no abbreviations. I'm gonna read it to you right away. The first is on a well-known subject, but I have adapted the motion to the little debate I had with the Minister on it. Let's see if that leads to a different judgment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that health insurance companies have been "spending a lot of money" on community care for several years;]] [[Whereas this in no way means that there would be no need for care at home;]] [[Whereas research is now being carried out into the causes of such under-utilization;]] [[calls on the Government to agree with health insurers on what part and how these funds are still used for home care and to inform the Court thereof, after the examination has been concluded,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-469]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u293	It is a point that is very important to me and that I have made. I would have liked it if Mr Kerstens had asked me if my name could also be moved.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u294	I'll put you right in there. I'm gonna read the second motion soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost half of the carers of a partner with a nursing home indication in case of dementia do not use day-to-day support, domestic care and/or home care;]] [[Whereas, therefore, there is still a world to be won;]] [[invites the government to explore the possibilities for healthcare offices to use more such support to include patient organisations as well as to set up a cross-domain cooperation steering committee, including patient organisations in addition to health insurers, municipalities and healthcare providers, in connection with the national roll-out of good examples,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-470]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u295	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the questions. I have two more motions to underline that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for the creation of additional places in nursing homes care offices and healthcare providers have a responsibility;]] [[noting that in some regions the waiting list problem is more serious than in others;]] [[Whereas the Dutch Healthcare Authority plays a role in the distribution of the means of redistribution;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Dutch Healthcare Authority, to consider how these funds can be used in such a way that they reach precisely those regions where the waiting lists are longest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Luck-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-471]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u296	Then I have another motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is also a growing preference for people dependent on long-term care to receive this care at home;]] [[having regard to the need to adapt housing for this purpose, but in particular to the need to focus on housing;]] [[Whereas many (grand) children would like to assume part of the responsibility for the care of their (grand) parents, but hardly any suitable housing is built for this purpose;]] [[calls on the Government to discuss, in consultation with municipalities, whether and, if so, how to further promote the construction of various forms of household care homes, including kangaroo housing;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geluk-Poortvliet and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-472]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion is about a nursing home emergency plan. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an increasing shortage of nursing homes, which, according to the most recent projections, is increasing in the long term;]] [[noting that better regional understanding is provided of the summer announcement on the basis of which healthcare offices draw up regional plans and make regional agreements with healthcare providers on the realisation of additional supply;]] [[considers that this development calls for a good solution for those waiting and their environment in the short term;]] [[calls on the government, in Q2 2020, to establish, where appropriate, a concrete contingency plan for nursing homes to do everything possible to increase nursing capacity in such a way that needs can be met,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-473]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u298	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u299	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I also thought we had a good debate. It has been well reviewed and discussed whether all measures taken will have sufficient effect. Part of it is, of course, waiting to see if it is enough. That is precisely why there was a great need in the Chamber to have a separate assessment, not too far from now, on which we can ask the government to check whether that is the case, and if that is not the case, what additional measures are being taken. That's why the next motion, which has been supported by Chamberwide. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide a separate assessment by summer 2020 as to whether the actions undertaken are sufficient to meet the rising demand for nursing home care and, if not, to indicate what additional measures are being taken,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Staaij, Agema, Bergkamp, Laan-Geselschap, Kerstens, Hijink, Sazias, Van Kooten-Arissen, Ellemeet and Geluk-Poortvliet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-31765-474]]
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u300	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. Then we have come to the end of the second term on the part of the Chamber. I'm suspending the meeting for exactly five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u301	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u302	Mr President, thank you. It was a fine debate, in my view, which did justice to the urgency of this issue. There's a shitty set of motions I'm trying to run through. I still get a few advices, so not too fast, because then there is no opportunity for that. The motion in part No. 462 I want to dissuade, because I think we both have orders and we shouldn't set them against each other. We both need to think of them as our mission. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u303	A brief question, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u304	This minister also wants to be party leader of the CDA. He recently wrote in the newspaper that 80,000 migrants per year are too much for the Netherlands. What does that mean in concrete terms? At what point do we stick to the places we need to give to asylum seekers and lucky seekers, or to anyone else? At what point do we demand that those places go to our people, who are on waiting lists for the nursing homes, for which this minister is now responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u305	I don't know if the chairman's gonna give room for this debate, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u306	No. That's not the issue either.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u307	That's what I was wondering. Look, I'm not suggesting this motion because she's making the assignments interchangeable. Doing one thing and therefore not doing the other, I do not think that is in line with the responsibility we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u308	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u309	And by the way, migration has a big impact on the number of people we have here. I do believe that we should talk about our demographic development. The ageing population on the one hand, growth on the other, of which migration is an important part.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u310	Yes. The Minister himself said no debate. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u311	No, but of course I'm going to file my motion myself, Mr. Chairman, and not you.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u312	That is the case anyway. I just don't want us talking about migration now instead of nursing homes. However, I must make sure that the subject of the debate is kept on waiting lists and nursing homes. You may table your motion, and I may make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u313	Yes, but we can only spend every euro once and this cabinet realizes azc-spots, but not enough nursing homes.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u314	That's what you said. Mrs. Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u315	Mr President, there is also something for the Acts. We know from the PVV that the PVV is linking two subjects, the care and migration, but I regret that the Minister of Health is now linking these two things again by saying: sure. I'm sorry about that. There is a great challenge when it comes to public health and all the things we are discussing here. I truly regret that the Minister considers it necessary to include migration in this debate, both actively and independently.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u316	Then you've made your point. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u317	I regret that you regret that. Demographics are just relevant to us, so we need to be able to talk about that. Perhaps we should discuss this in another way or at another time. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 463 concerns the deletion of the own contribution. The budgetary impact of this is, after all, quite considerable, as we have just talked about. I therefore also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u318	Very briefly, Mr Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u319	Would it help if it were to be a request to at least look at it? I would like to see that for this very limited group. It is only the group that lives at home, is on the waiting list, gets bridge care and pays its own contribution. So that's not a very large group. I'd like to have an overview, if that's possible. Then I'll make an investigation out of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u320	I would like to put it in technical terms, as long as you do not have any suspicion that I would be prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u321	I won't do that until after. I'll do it after.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u322	Fine. Then the motion to part No. 464. I have to dissuade it, because it asks in another way for the re-launch of access to Wlz care on the lowestzzp's, and so it just wants us to go back to 2013. I don't think we should. So I'd like to dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. 465 asks for something I don't want to do this way either. It is not the case that small-scale nursing homes which are no longer exploitable, which are no longer in time, which are no longer desirable, should remain open at all costs. I do not think that this motion does justice to the actual situation there. I also think that I am going to sit on another's chair with this motion and would therefore like to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 466 calls for more room for professionals in the use of quality funds. I would think that it is in line with the quality framework, where this is actually a task. I would like to leave it to the Chamber to decide on this, because I think this is policy support. At least that's how I'd like to see it myself. The motion in part No. 467 actually caters for the outcome of the conversation that I now have with care offices on the occasion of the Agema motion. I think it jumps to a conclusion too quickly, not to use an English term. That is why I would ask the author of that motion, Mrs Sazias, to hold it.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u323	There will be discussions and that will be conclusive, but I can't think of a better conclusion than to delete the term 'non-active waiting'.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u324	So you're not holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u325	If you're enrolled at a nursing home and you have an indication, then you're actively waiting, aren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u326	But if you're going to put the motion to the vote, I'd advise her not to. The simple deletion of those terms is really clouding. I want us to think together about what to expect from the mediation role of the care office at the moment you have an indication. We have had a whole debate on this. I want to think further on that route. Then I would like to come up with a proposal that reflects your objections and the concerns expressed in the Chamber. We haven't changed the reality by simply deleting labels. Then I'd really advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u327	Are you holding the motion or not? The discussion has been extensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u328	I'm gonna have to think about that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u329	You have the time until next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u330	Then the motion to part No. 468 is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u331	Yes, from Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u332	It's about monitoring the use. He's got two sides. There's the monitoring of the residential facility. We will. This is done more than the SCP report says. There is a RIGO study which now has more than two thirds of the municipalities in view. We are therefore doing more in this area than is supposed in the motion. In addition, we must, of course, carefully monitor developments in all these different forms of delivery. If I bring these two things together and add the need for better registration, I can imagine everything in this motion. I'll just ask the room to think about the form in which we could do that. I understand the direction and I also understand the need very well. Moreover, I would very much like to know myself. If that's how I understand the motion, the verdict is Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u333	I agree with that. I'll take a look at Mrs Ellemeet, too. When can the Minister provide clarity about the form? Then we'll know what that monitoring's gonna look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u334	I look at the bank eagerly with officials. I'm expecting a consenting nod or an explanation. I'm just gonna say it. Shall we say before the meireces? In this respect, this timing has been condemned in absentia.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u335	Meireces of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u336	Yeah, that meireces, sure. Then the motion to part No. 469. Keeping money? That is not the case. It's just not the case that there's money left. I think it is a completely wrong representation of reality. It is about a budgetary framework that is not being fully exploited. Then there is another budgetary framework which is significantly exceeded. No one has any money left. When health insurance companies spend money they didn't think they would spend it, people notice that in printing the increase in the premium. In short, I really must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u337	You'll have the floor in a moment, Mr. Christmas. But you filed another motion. Perhaps the Minister can give his opinion on this first, and you can respond to that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u338	In the motion in part No. 470 Mr Kerstens is really going two steps too fast. At the request of Mrs Ellemeet, I have indicated that I am prepared to see how the Wlz can be used preventively. I have indicated that I will work this out and that I will return to that. You are actually setting up the steering committee for the situation that then arose. You anticipate the amendment of the law and the possibilities of distributing the money. That's ten times too fast. Now let's work out a good legislative change. That is the promise I have already made. After that, we can take a closer look. Of course, patient organisations, health insurers, municipalities and healthcare providers should be involved. But I just think this is going too fast. I'm not leaving judgment to the Chamber. I'm dissuading the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u339	That's clear. I'm gonna take a look at that. My comment concerns my first motion. It's a little silly of the Minister to address the term "preservation." The motion contains that, by the way. The point is, there's under-utilisation. Because it has been happening for a number of years, the Minister himself feels the need for further investigation. What's the cause of that? The Minister mentions a cause, but MPs mention other possible causes. The motion to do the investigation. Then it goes at the pace the Minister wishes. If the investigation shows that one of the causes is not being able to meet a high demand for care at home, a different cause than the minister suggests, see with the insurers if they can do something about it and, if so, for what part. That is the thrust of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u340	Okay, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u341	I know. We have just debated this in detail. We just don't agree. That is not how budgetary frameworks work. It can't be like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u342	Then we'll go to the motion in part no. 471.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u343	That's Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet's motion. It wants the means of redistribution to be used in such a way that they reach where the task is greatest. I understand that, actually. I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber on that point. Then the motion to part No. 472, which asks the government to discuss, in consultation with municipalities, whether and, if so, how to further stimulate the construction of various forms of care homes, including kangaroo homes. I'll take that into account in the approach we agreed on. With the Task Force Living & Zorg I will talk to municipalities to visualize the assignment and to support them in that approach. I'm taking this into account, so it's not gonna be a new trajectory or anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u344	So judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u345	Judge the Chamber, if I may understand. Then the motion to part No. 473 by Mrs Laan-Geselschap and Mrs Bergkamp. I think it is very much in line with the debate we have had. Actually, it sticks the time I inform the Chamber on Q2. I had hoped "about the summer vacation," but you say "Q2," and I think that's fine. There's one more thing I'd like to explain. It says "where necessary a concrete emergency plan." At the moment when you have the idea that in a certain region, so I can understand the motion, hopefully, the gap between what there is to be action and what is needed is very large, you will indeed have to do something. If that's the way I understand the motion, I'll leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u346	And "Q2" is just the second quarter, I understand. And the final motion, by Mr Van der Staaij and others.?
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u347	I'd like that to fit in. I've already indicated that I'd like to continue the conversation with you around the summer. Is the whole set of instruments that we have to carry out the directional role sufficient? I had that debate with Mrs Agema, but also with Mr Van der Staaij. If I may see it that way, also in the light of that debate, I would be happy to return to your Chamber before the summer of 2020 so that we can continue the debate. However, I would like to emphasise that not all regions have yet decided on the plan to meet demand over the next 20 years. You won't assume that either. It really takes time to get a good idea of that. Otherwise, it's gonna be rush work. But this is about assessing whether we need more tools to carry out our direction. If I may see the motion this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u348	On the understanding that it is not just about the instruments, but also about what we are seeing now. We know the last stain hasn't been filled out yet. It may be that it is trusting to see that they are doing well to dot the last few points on the i. But maybe you have to find out that too few confidence-building things have happened. This can simply be done within the existing possibilities and additional actions.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u349	Yeah, I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u350	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2020-01-15-tweedekamer-3.u351	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister, thank the Members of Parliament and suspend the sitting until 2:35 p.m.
